ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the additional session of the VIIIth plenary session of the Riigikogu, which I have convened on the basis of § 49 (3) of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure and the decision of the Riigikogu Board including the 20 November session and the prepared agenda of the Management Board.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U2	Our session will begin today with the oath of Secretary of the Interior, Katri Raig. The President of the Republic has been appointed Minister of the Interior Katri Raigi by decision of 26 November. Next, we will hear his oath. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U3	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Riigikogu! Good Prime Minister! In taking on the duties of a member of the Government of the Republic, I am aware that in this capacity I am responsible for the Republic of Estonia and my conscience. I solemnly swear to remain faithful to the constitutional order of the Republic of Estonia and to devote my strength to securing the well-being and future of the Estonian people. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U4	Now is the opportunity to hand over drafts and enquiries. On behalf of the Government of the Republic, Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U5	Honourable Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching today a draft law amending trademark law, industrial design protection law and other laws. Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the above-mentioned bill in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U6	No more wishes. I've adopted a bill. Under the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, we take him to the procedure. Incoming check, please! 89 members of the Riigikogu are present. Honourable Riigikogu, on the agenda. Namely, foreign minister Sven Mikser has expressed his wish to make a political statement at today's Riigikogu meeting on the continuity of Estonian foreign policy and Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, has expressed his wish to make a political statement at today's Riigikogu session regarding the draft Riigikogu statement on the UN Global Migration Framework. On the basis of Article 56 (1) (9) and (2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu Act, I will add to the agenda of today's sitting. I would like to add to the first item on the agenda the political statement made by Minister for Foreign Affairs Sven Mikser and, on the second item, the political statement made by Minister for Justice Urmas Reinsalu. Jürgen Ligi, a procedural question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U7	Mr Nestor, the fact that ministers are going to make statements one by one is not exactly what we gathered here for. How can we know what the government's position is? We did not actually gather here in this government meeting, but in the Riigikogu sitting.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U8	Ministers have the right to make a political statement before the Riigikogu; that is their sacred right. With these improvements, honourable Riigikogu, I will vote on the agenda for an additional sitting. Please take a stand and vote. There are 62 members of the Riigikogu to approve the agenda, one against and five abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U9	Firstly, the political statement by Foreign Minister Sven Mikser on the continuity of Estonian foreign policy. Honourable Riigikogu, the political statement of the Minister of Foreign Affairs lasts up to 15 minutes and after that a member of the Riigikogu can ask the minister an oral question, then the negotiations will follow. Please, Foreign Minister Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U10	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I'll try to make it shorter than I've been given 15 minutes. First of all, I would like to thank the representatives of the people for the opportunity to speak before you in advance of this important item on the agenda. I will try to address the issue of the consistency of Estonian foreign policy a little more broadly than with regard to the issue of the migration framework before you today. However, I will start with the UN Global Migration Framework and talk briefly about what this global Migration Framework is. It is a legally non-binding framework document which is necessary to give 193 UN Member States the opportunity to talk about migration as a global challenge so that the countries of origin, destination and transit of migration are at the table in this debate. This is one of a large number of UN General Assembly non-binding resolutions that outline important activities on important issues affecting the whole world. I don't think any of us think that migration is a global challenge today. What is not the migration framework and what is it not doing? The migration framework is not an external agreement in terms of Estonia or international law. It is not legally binding on Estonia or other countries. It does not deprive us of the right to design our own and sovereign migration and border policies. He doesn't make migration a human right. He does not bring more migrants into Estonia, compared to how many people would otherwise end up here. There are no political parties in Estonia - no political parties - whose aim is to relax Estonia's immigration policy or to bring immigrants to Estonia on a massive basis. Those who say so are not telling the truth. Don't be afraid! There is no mysterious conspiracy outside Estonia that would want to perish for our people and our culture and would force us to change our policy to date. Don't be afraid! The approval of the migration framework, regardless of our participation, will not bring mass immigration to Estonia. The words 'international normal law', as well as the innocent toponym Marrakech, have become, as if, some sort of means of pre-dreaming intimidation. This is not a rational approach to the subject. Don't be afraid! More important than one non-binding UN declaration, of course, is the need for Estonia to protect and strengthen the rule-based multilateral world order. This time we have been well served since the restoration of our independence. He has helped us to maintain and consolidate our independence. It is important for us to maintain a world order in which countries can negotiate important matters among themselves and, if necessary, agree and act in accordance with international law and best practices. A brief statement by the Riigikogu and what is really at stake here in Estonia. I dare say that in the last quarter of the century, we have, in general, been able to avoid threats and intimidation in our political debates. We have been able to talk about things without anger or personal confrontation. We have managed to focus on the content and impact of the policy. We have, at least by default, acknowledged that there are some common national interests above party interests that are not involved in daily political disputes and whose long-term goals are not sacrificed to short-term rating points. It's perfectly natural that people have fears. These fears must be taken seriously, they must be spoken of. This must be done calmly and honestly. About an hour ago, we, as Social Democrats, expressed our willingness to speak to those who think differently from us in front of Toompea Castle. We were not given the floor, but at the same time many of us were able to speak face - to - face with a number of demonstrators, people who disagree with us in everything. I want to thank those who were willing to listen to us and argue with us. Unfortunately, our common information room is shrinking. This situation must change, it is not sustainable. We must also be able to maintain our differences of opinion in a polite and dignified manner. If Conservative voters only read conservative truth from their own publications, liberal voters only liberal truth, socialist voters only social democratic truth, and if images of the world that are painted before their eyes come from different planets, then the culture of argumented political debate slowly dies out, and without it we do not have democracy. In conclusion, liberal democracy is not going through its better days. Freedom of the press, the rights of minorities, even liberal democracy as such and a rule-based world order have come under strong pressure, also in the fortifications of indigenous democracy in Western Europe and North America. We promised, 27 years ago, by restoring our independence, to create a free and democratic state, free not only from a foreign yoke, but also in a much broader sense. We wanted to create a country where people could be free to exercise themselves, free to be what they are, free to think and listen and to accept others and others. Once again, none of us here represents any hidden agenda with the aim of bringing immigrants to Estonia on a massive scale. These fears are baseless. And none of us would like to secretly take on unwelcome or unacceptable commitments to the Estonian state. These fears are baseless. In discussing here today the Riigikogu's statement on the UN Global Migration Framework, I ask you, good representatives of the people, to act in accordance with my worldview and the voice of my conscience, not to make decisions on the basis of fear and external pressure or on behalf of the expected short-term election benefits. If we start making decisions in the highest elected body of our country based not on sober reasoning, but also on listening to different opinions, not on the voice of conscience, but on fears and prejudices, then its long-term impact on our democracy will be much greater and much deeper than the impact of supporting or not supporting one UN non-binding declaration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U11	Questions for the Minister. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U12	Thank you, Minister. I very much agree with what you said about the consistency of foreign policy and on the fragmentation of auditoriums. I can tell you that the liberal auditorium is probably the only one in the polls who doesn't listen to just one truth and is confused about it. The Socialist audience has listened to exactly what you devoted most of the time to today, namely, the issue of migration is something short-term, something about intimidation and something about division. But please say something in the interest of the substantive debate, except that it is not binding. How do you justify the position of Academician Mälksoo (he has led this debate mentally in some ways) which differs from your view that there is nothing to link, there is no problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U13	Thank you. This is an exceptionally relevant issue in the context of the debate over the last two weeks. Much of this debate has not focused on the legal binding nature of this document, not its own declaration. The fact that it is not a legally binding instrument is written in black white in § 15. However, there has been a dispute as to whether, on the basis of this migration framework or on the basis of this migration framework, a new international standard law could be created in the future. The emergence of a new ordinary international law is a long and complex process. It is certainly not possible to provide an exhaustive list of the things that may happen in the future, nor of those that may not happen in the future, if this migration framework is to be approved. Neither the Social Democrats nor our voters look at migration as a short-term challenge that disappears. On the contrary, migration is a long-term challenge. Migration affects a large number of countries in the world; it affects their long-term economic, cultural and also political development. It is precisely because this is a long-term and all-country challenge that the UN is one of the formats in which migration must inevitably be addressed. It is true that so far it has not been done enough. This platform is what this framework wants to create.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U14	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U15	Thank you. Good waitress! If it were just your report right now, everything would be simple and understandable. But I understand that the second minister of the same government will be right next, who will decisively reject all your statements so far. The Prime Minister responsible for government cooperation and decision-making, or in this case for non-decision, has found time in his timetable today to visit the daily centre of his constituency, has found time to appear at school, but has not found time to be in front of Parliament in a situation where MEPs have a serious question about what the government thinks about this matter. My question to you is this: did you have a question in the government for a moment that the Prime Minister could be in front of the Riigikogu during the debate on this topic and express his views?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U16	Thank you. Whether a decision on supporting the migration framework should be taken by the Government of the Republic or by a higher legislative body, or no additional decision at all, has sounded exceptionally different opinions. Many thinkers have also changed their views over time. I believe that, as a precedent, it is certainly not best that we bring such a question to the Grand Chamber of the Riigikogu, but in this situation it has proved to be inevitable. As far as the Prime Minister is concerned, this is a person of extraordinary capacity for work. Whoever does a lot is gonna make it. The Minister of Justice will certainly present his visions and arguments himself, but I can assure you that the discussions in the Government of the Republic, both in the spring and now in late autumn, have also been exchanged mainly about the impact this migration framework could have on the future development of ordinary international law. In fact, the debate on this issue was rather good, and in no case are the Chancellor of Justice in front of the Committee on Foreign Affairs at the end of last week, a clear position and clarification. So perhaps new arguments have been added to the Minister of Justice over the weekend. So far, my discussion with him at the table of my fellow Members has focused precisely on this issue of the future of ordinary international law, not so much on the document before us itself.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U17	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U18	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! How do you assess the behaviour of the Reform Party in the context of this whole debate? At first, the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs said that Parliament had not been consulted enough, then, when the government failed to reach a decision and the Riigikogu decided to take the initiative, the Reform Party has come to the conclusion that Parliament should not, however, take a clear position on this issue. Some of their leading politicians say that they should definitely support it, and others say that they could support it, but at the same time propose that the Riigikogu remove this one supporting sentence from the text of this statement.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U19	Thank you. As your colleague Jürgen Ligi has already pointed out, the views of all political parties, in a sense, reflect the positions of their constituents, and vice versa, are not voters oriented towards their authoritative opinion leaders. I am not here today to give grades to one or another parliamentary group or political party. As I said, my request is for everyone to vote according to their outlook and conscience. I have also had very constructive and substantive discussions during this debate over the last two weeks with quite a number of members of the Reform Party, who have also expressed their full understanding of the extent to which the migration framework before us could have a concrete impact on future developments in migration policy and on the impact of the ongoing debate on Estonia's internal policy closer and perhaps further into the future. I would like to thank all those who have been constructive in this debate, and I hope that we will be able to keep this debate here and outside this Chamber at a polite and well-argued level.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U20	Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U21	Thank you. Good minister! Although some are trying to put a boiled macaroni on everyone else's ears here, I suggest you look yourself in the face instead of such accusations and wailings. But, frankly, I would like to express great dissatisfaction and my personal view that the government has taken a very important issue to mock, such as the Tatikas and the Water Brewl were throwing a dead dog back and forth over the fence. The fact that it has been brought to this Parliament for so-called decision-making and for demonstrating its indecision is absolutely wrong. There's a riot in front of the house. I ask this question: what went wrong, why did not the right decisions be taken in time and why the responsibility of the government cannot be assumed, as this is the case?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U22	Thank you. I congratulate you on your rich and graphic language. No, what's going on in front of Toompea Castle is not what I call a riot. This is a demonstration that may be getting emotional at times. Perhaps it would be reasonable to take down such a state of hyper-emotion in this debate wherever it is possible and desirable. I think that resolving this issue, too, is not a personal matter for one party or another, for one Minister or for another, or for a parliamentary politician; it is a matter for the whole country and, more generally, for society as a whole. I certainly don't want to smear the macaroni anywhere. It was, in itself, a rather strange metaphor. But I am not happy that the government has not been able to agree and reach consensus. This morning, the Prime Minister said that even if the Riigikogu does not wish to assume this responsibility (a number of leading politicians in the parliament have just wanted it to take place in this Chamber), it is also willing to vote in the government, which is certainly not ideal under the conditions of the coalition government, but again, in a difficult situation, it may be necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U23	Marko Mihkelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U24	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister of Foreign Affairs, I come to the subject with which you came before us, i.e. the continuity of foreign policy. I am concerned about the current state of foreign policy continuity, about what the government is demonstrating with its indecisiveness. Let's look at the events in Ukraine. The establishment of martial law in a very important and close partner country could seriously escalate the security situation. We need to think very seriously about the importance of the foreign policy consensus that we have defended for a very long time. Please tell me whether it is normal for the government not to make decisions on such an important issue and to pass responsibility on to someone else. Secondly, is it normal that, if we have made foreign policy statements in the Riigikogu for years in search of consensus, in this case it is done purely and solely to solve internal policy problems?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U25	Thank you. I consider it absolutely right to seek consensus. At the same time, having been in Estonian politics for almost 20 years, I must admit that it is not always possible to find consensus in practical life. But seeking consensus, especially in foreign policy, but not only in foreign policy, is certainly necessary. Estonia's foreign policy has indeed been consistent and has been consistent precisely in its central objective of maintaining and consolidating our independence, one of which is a multilateral world order based on rules. On the other hand, when this very emotional debate broke out between Estonian politicians a few weeks ago, several Members expressed a strong desire to bring this issue to Parliament as a legislative assembly. I am not going to name names, but they said that it is totally unacceptable to exclude Parliament from this debate. This position changed at the very moment when the government, in a quite regrettable way, decided to come to Parliament on this issue, or the government departments decided to come to Parliament on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U26	Marianne Mikko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U27	Thank you very much. Mr Minister for Foreign Affairs, I would ask you, as a member of the government, to confirm clearly in your mother tongue that Estonia is not in favour of mass immigration and that the UN migration agreement, contrary to intimidation, deals with the control of migration in the world.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U28	Thank you. I can confirm that the Estonian state authorities, whether legislative or executive, do not want or support mass immigration. Migration, as I said, is a global problem. A number of vital European interests, such as the interest in having readmission agreements with the countries of origin of migration, can also be resolved only if we can negotiate and agree on these issues. The migration framework, of course, does not constitute such an attempt to agree. It is only the creation of a platform to enable the future to address this issue and agree, for example, on how to coordinate the protection of its borders, how to deal with readmission issues, including how to ensure universal human rights for migrants, like all other people, without changing migration into a human right. There are many aspects of migration. Of course, this negotiated document, with the participation of 190 countries, does not focus exclusively on topics specific to Estonia. Very many of the challenges associated with migration are not really a problem for Estonia, but they are a problem for many other countries of origin, transit or destination of migration. We need to understand when speaking in the UN format to all countries in the world that our problems may not be exactly similar or identical to those of all other countries in the world. But yes, you asked and I can assure you: no one, not the Estonian government, not the Estonian parliament or any Estonian party, has a desire to promote mass immigration, to change the foundations of Estonia's migration policy. It is certainly our desire to control our own migration policy, to control our own borders by cooperating internationally to manage this global problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U29	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, you spoke in your speech about three rights. What makes you think that you, the Socialist right, is the best right? Why don't you admit the loss of this thing and pull yourself back? You still want to find a way to gain the power of your authority until the last drop of blood, while you're talking about public debate and nice agreements and everything. But why do you not want to admit that your right is not the most superior and that the entire Estonian state does not have to follow it?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U31	Thank you. Democracy has a multiplicity of opinions, views and beliefs. There is no doubt that the views of the social democrats differ significantly from the views and perceptions of the EKRE, for example, to almost all policy areas. If this high legislative body is able to make a decision by consensus or by voting, as Parliament usually takes its decisions, then the content of this decision will undoubtedly be binding, whether legally or politically, both for those who were on the vote and for those who were on the vote. This is the democratic decision-making procedure. On the other hand, I would like to remind you that the members of the Government of the Republic, in taking their oaths, promise to be guided by the interests of the Republic of Estonia and their conscience. We certainly do not want to fight to the last drop of blood; we do not want to fight to the first drop of blood; we want these political differences in the Estonian state to be cleared up completely without blood.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U32	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U33	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Dear Minister of Foreign Affairs, You said in your speech that the Snots don't have a hidden agenda. I agree, your agenda is quite public. Your Chairman has said that the nation state is a dangerous dystopia, your permanent drunken Pärnumaa first number has been advertised for a long time in the European manifesto, which is the liberals on the left of Europe, you certainly consider yourself to be left-wing liberals, a political credo, which says that you must work for a post-ethnic Europe and that Europe's oldest opponent is a nation state. You are the demolishers and subversives of the nation state. If you do not understand that this kind of action delegitimizes political institutions and leads politics to the street, then you are responsible for the coming of the last drop of blood and the first drop of blood. Do you understand that?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U34	Thank you. I also mentioned in my introduction that we should try to come to the common information room. Your understanding of what the social democrats stand for and what values they represent comes from certain conservative publications. You could come down to the middle floor to get objective information. But I also want to say that love for the Estonian state, Estonia and the people is certainly not a monopoly of the Conservatives, albeit your party. If you try to wrongly accuse everyone who does not agree with you of treason, betraying national ideals, or wishing to demolish the Estonian nation state, in fact devalues quite a number of things that are sacred to liberals, social democrats as well as, I think, to the overwhelming majority of Conservatives.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U35	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U36	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! I think you've been lying lately about your answers and your attitude. This lies in the fact that if you complain to certain members of the group that they do not want a debate in Parliament, you are ignoring the fact that Parliament cannot, at the moment, become a decision-maker instead of a government. That's what's causing the confrontation. You yourself, in your first speeches, were quite rigid, talking about whether this could come to Parliament. Later, you became soft in the light of the political situation. The whole game is going on today to keep these unfortunate roofies together, and then we'll see what happens next. Do you realize that it is creating a precedent in Estonian politics, so if there is no consensus, then the government can conveniently send things to Parliament and continue to rule as if nothing had happened? Do you have an agreement in the government that you will make this so-called vote to share the money from the roof and quietly keep ticking?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U37	Thank you. I think that putting the debate on the migration framework together with budgetary debates in Parliament is, to put it mildly, arbitrary. As I said, I am certainly not happy with it and I am not happy that the government has not been able to make a decision that should undoubtedly be the responsibility of the government. However, I have indeed pointed out that some politicians who wanted to bring this issue to Parliament at an earlier stage of the debate have changed their position. I still do not think that Parliament is the best place to discuss and decide on this issue. In this case, 39 members of the Riigikogu are members of the Riigikogu, and not the Government of the Republic, the Government of the Republic cannot initiate a draft declaration by the Riigikogu pursuant to the Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu. Lawyers' assessments differ on many issues, but there is quite a consensus about the effect of the parliamentary statement or how mandatory it is for the Government of the Republic: the statement of Parliament is not legally binding on the government, but it is certainly one of the ways in which the Riigikogu can express the position of its majority. Of course, it is also the responsibility of Parliament's plenary to leave this position unanswered. We live in a parliamentary country and Parliament, when it gives full power to a code of conduct, even if it is not legally binding, there are very weighty levers in how to enforce our wishes and wishes if the government does not act on these guidelines.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U38	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U39	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. All polls, no matter how scientificly they have been conducted, many of them are telephone polls, calls to television news shows, newspaper column polls, but also official or, let's say, a survey by the Institute of Social Studies carried out on a more scientific, organised basis, show that a clear majority of the population does not support Estonia joining the Marrakesh Treaty. You, both in today's speech and in your articles, are clearly trying to say the opposite, and in this connection you are consistently repeating all kinds of lies, starting from the fact that we are losing our allies and so on. I understand why you're lying. But I have a question, and that question is ethical. Aren't you embarrassed?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U40	Thank you. This is a question that I have repeatedly wanted to ask both you and several of your colleagues. But I guess this standard is individualized for everyone: behavior, which makes some people ashamed, maybe makes another, on the contrary, some sort of uplifting feeling. No, in my statements, in my arguments, I have always tried to rely on the best information available to me and not to go against my conscience. I have succeeded fully on this issue. I have never put forward any arguments on the level of public opinion support. I think that, in a democratic society, there are always different views in a pluralist debate about any sensitive and complex policy issues. Just because public opinion polls dominate one position does not mean that those who think differently should reconsider or give up their beliefs under pressure from that overwhelming opinion. What is often the case in a democratic process is that what you believe in and what you think is right does not find sufficient support in the vote by the competent decisive body, be it the people, Parliament or anyone else. Then you must also be able to live with this knowledge with dignity.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U41	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U42	Dear Minister, There is a great deal of foam around the global migration framework and there are very many conflicting interpretations, and I am afraid there are also very many views from the political forces that have been put forward before this framework itself was read. That is why I proposed the framework. Let me read a few of the points that are written here in black white. Under point 11, the aim is to reduce irregular migration and its negative impact. Point 15: 'The Global Migration Framework is a non-binding framework for cooperation... [---] The Global Migration Framework confirms the sovereign right of countries to determine their national migration policies and the prerogative of countries to regulate migration in their jurisdictions... ' Item 18: 'We are committed to creating conditions for people.. that lead to peaceful, productive and sustainable lives in their own country.. [also ensuring that despair and deteriorating environments] do not force them to seek a living elsewhere through illegal migration. ' Is this translation of the migration agreement correct and, if so, what are these points in this migration agreement that your opponents do not like?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U43	Indeed, the issue of legal binding is very clear, expressis verbis, black white in this agreement or within this framework itself. Similarly, it states that the framework does not undermine the sovereignty of countries in shaping their migration policies and in creating laws or legislation to that effect. As I have already said, discussions in this Parliament in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, as well as discussions in the Cabinet of Government, have mainly exchanged ideas on precisely whether international ordinary law could develop in the future in such a way that, also as a result of this migration framework, it would somehow oblige us to do something that we do not want to do. This fear can be removed, I think, best of all, by repeating the Chancellor of Justice's point from the debate in committee. If, on the basis of this migration framework, any new conventions or agreements should be recommended in the future, Estonia will be able to participate and withdraw from this process at any time if this is absolutely necessary due to our national interests. Of course, there have also been very much less rational arguments, stories about globalistic conspiracy and someone's mythical desire to wipe the Estonian national statehood or Estonian culture off the face of the earth. It is certainly much more difficult to argue with such statements. So there are perfectly reasonable legitimate questions that require reasoned answers, and there are others that have been argued against the debate maybe not just as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U44	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U45	Honourable Chairman! Dear Minister, You constantly stress in your speech that no, the UN Global Migration Framework is not an external agreement, it does not deprive us of our rights, it is a non-binding declaration. Then you say you need to speak calmly and honestly. I say you couldn't even arrange the correct translation. Translation is misleading! Commitment is not a commitment, the content of the commitment and the whole of this document is an international agreement commitment. These obligations are, by the way, very questionable and, in my view, also unacceptable in some respects. Why didn't you even do an honest translation? Commitment is not a commitment, commitment is a commitment! Dedication is an English translation. How's that, Mr. Minister? Why aren't you honest?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U46	Thank you, Honourable People's Ladies and gentlemen. My diploma from the University of Tartu from the field of English Language and Literature dates back to 1996. I would not spend the time in this great hall on extra-context translation of individual words or phrases and discussing the quality of this translation. However, yes, I say that it is probably possible to deliver this Estonian translation now available, but it does not change very much the content. As has been said, these are not binding obligations. These are different objectives that have been formulated for the entire international community. Some of them are relevant here in Estonia, but I dare say that Estonia is a very exemplary country in the majority. Already today, almost all of these objectives are also fully in line with our current policy and our legal space. In addition, the agreement sets out packages of activities that countries can take as best practices when moving towards these objectives, but none of them need to use in their national policies or legislation. Why are we not translating all the UN declarations and the resolutions of the General Assembly? Last year alone, more than 300 were accepted at the General Assembly. The UN has six official working languages. Estonian, true, is not one of them. If it were to commit itself to translating the entire UN documentation, like the European Union's legislation, for example, this would be a very significant administrative burden for Estonia, and I think that the practical need for it is more than questionable. In this case, as a heightened public interest arose, we considered it necessary to make the text available in Estonian as well. This is not an official translation. However, when operating in six working languages, the reference is, of course, based on the language in which the negotiations were conducted and in which the original version of the so-called draft text took place. In this case, English is the language. These are not translations by the so-called Republic of Estonia, although not by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. For example, when it comes to the alleged contradictions between the English and Russian texts, it is still necessary to refer to the original language of the negotiations, which in this case was English. True, I admit that, for example, the word empowerment in the press is interpreted in modern pulpit and jargon mostly as 'enhancing'. I guess the translator of the translation bureau used wasn't aware of it for any reason. In the context of the Commitment, it is rather a non-binding commitment of countries than a binding commitment. So it's perfectly clear in terms of text.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U47	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U48	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Very respected and respected Minister for Foreign Affairs! In your presentation, you mentioned a demonstration in front of Toompea's house and that you had also wished to speak there. Then you stressed the need for a dignified discussion with an argument for debate. A member of your party, a Member of the European Parliament and Mr Indrek Tarand, who was clearly alcohol-scented, nominated for the next elections in Pärnumaa, invaded the stage in drunkenness and became very rude. Is this your understanding of culture, courtesy and respectable political debate and debate? Is that what you mean by that?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U49	Thank you. I think that it is undoubtedly regrettable that a Member of the European Parliament was attacked at the demonstration. This is not how I see argumentable, sensible and peaceful political debate. I believe that talking is always better than not talking, trying to come together in a common information room is always better than moving from the middle floor each in its own direction. Political antagonism and political confrontation have become far too acute and clearly too acute. I think it can bring rapid one-off success to a parliamentary party or to a political party outside the parliament, with the support of emotions that have been aroused at one point or another, but it is certainly neither healthy nor welcome from the point of view of Estonia's political climate.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U50	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U51	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You said that this state of hyper-reflection, which has arisen in connection with the migration framework, is not a personal matter for anyone. It is difficult for me not to take it personally when people with legs are beaten before the Riigikogu for their positions. Do you agree that the Estonian people have received a very confusing signal from the government, that they do not understand where we are on the road, and that it has amplified this state of excitement? Do you agree that the Prime Minister, holding back, not giving clear signals, dealing with the election campaign no longer, has not been a front speaker in this process, as Prime Minister, at the height of his duties?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U52	Thank you. I have already said several times in front of this Chamber that I do not consider it commendable that the government has failed to fulfil the task assigned to it to shape the clear position of the Estonian state on this matter. At the same time, today the High Legislative Assembly has the opportunity to take this position. This role can certainly be seen from a number of angles. You could say that somebody else's unfinished job is rolled on our shoulders, that's none of our business. You can rise above day politics and say, "Whatever it is, we will do it, and I think the voters will understand it and appreciate it too." Yes, I think that in such critical situations, in such a heated atmosphere, it is certainly the duty of the elected and appointed political leaders of the country to be available, to speak, to speak, to speak again, at the same time to listen, to listen and to listen again. It is undoubtedly everyone's duty. I think that it is not responsible for any attempt by anyone, executive power, legislative power or any other branch of power to circumvent this responsibility or to blend in with the background and not to take a clear position. As has been said, views and opinions may be legitimately different, that does not mean that we should all feel the same in order to be responsible.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U53	Rainer Vakra, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U54	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. We are talking a lot about discussion here and how to reach consensus. After all, politicians, especially members of the government, are often accused of not wanting to talk to people and meet them. I was present today when you were really willing to talk to people who were wearing posters with both your name and your picture, and so were the posters with the name and picture of President Kersti Kaljulaid. I quote Mart Helmet: 'No, we will not give you the floor. We brought these people here. If you want to talk to people, bring your own people. ' Now you have the opportunity. What would you have told these people in front of Toompea Castle if you had been given the floor?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U55	What I have said to many people in person and face-to-face maybe not so many people, but through the mass media these days: do not be afraid, not any Estonian political parties, not social democrats, not the Reform Party, not the Centre Party, not the Fatherland, not the Free Party, not the EKRE is not intended to promote mass immigration, sell the Estonian state or people or national interests. Don't be afraid! We are a full member of the international community with the resulting moral and other obligations, as well as rights, including the right to sovereignly shape our own country's policies, the laws of our own country, both on migration issues and on many other issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U56	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U57	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I agree that this framework is not binding and appears to be overdramatic in the light of the events of the Kerch Strait. But in what part, firstly, is this text covered by international conventions and in what part is it uncovered, which could lead to hypothetical problems? Secondly, when could the language of attitude of international documents end, which in this case seeks to depict migration in a positive way, which I believe will excite people even more than hypothetical commitments in the hypothetical future?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U58	Thank you. First of all, the conventions. It must be said that migration as a whole is almost covered by international conventions. Certain aspects, such as exile, have already been quite well furnished or much better furnished in terms of international law since the 1950s. The aspects of migration on which this framework focuses are, in fact, very little covered by international conventions. When it comes to the language used and whether it is entirely positive, it must be said that the language of documents that reflect a request for consensus between 193 countries remains, even if one of these countries withdraws from these talks during the process, certainly in the future, to include perhaps some too much and some of the approaches that seem to us, to say the least, even odd or at least not too much relevant. The value of the UN, as an organisation, also lies very much in the fact that it is possible to bring a very large number of different perspectives, representing both large and small, both high and less developed countries from very different geographical areas, to a common position at one table. It's probably inevitable. I am absolutely convinced that if the so-called drafting pen of this document had been in the hands of the Estonian State, the Estonian Government or the Estonian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we would have a much more specific and explicit document today than the one we are breaking the peaks on here. But it is certainly the UN format, this search for consensus between so many countries with very different perspectives of value in themselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U59	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U60	Thank you. Honourable Minister of Foreign Affairs! Accession to the non-binding migration framework is in principle a act of goodwill and international cooperation. As you yourself have pointed out, the problem of possible future developments in society has created controversy. In my question, I rely on the assumption that the Republic of Estonia is, after all, sovereign in nature. If we join some kind of declaration and the cooperation within the framework of the declaration goes in an inappropriate direction, then as a sovereign, we will in principle also be able to withdraw from this framework, withdraw from the agreements. Can you confirm or disprove, just to take away the fears, that this is the case?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U61	Thank you. A very correct and very relevant question. Yeah, that's true. If, for example, there are conventions on migration that should be created either by pushing this migration framework, or even completely independently of it, in the future, then joining them is a completely separate act within the meaning of Estonian law. We can decide, in a sovereign way, whether or not to join such conventions in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U62	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! I am very concerned about how the Estonian political elite ridicules the President of the United States today. Why do you and the government try in this context, in which our main political and military ally, the US and its President, Donald Trump, have sent this agreement to the garbage can, figuratively speaking, and the current Austrian Presidency of the European Union, too, to forcefully push it through? As Foreign Minister, have you brought to the attention of your US or Austrian colleague that these countries are on the wrong path that they do not understand what this means?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U63	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U64	Thank you. I do not wish to ridicule any of our allies or partners' leaders or opposition politicians. The voters of all democratic countries choose their own leaders. We, of course, are working with these leaders, their governments, the parliaments that democratic elections in these countries give us. In fact, even in those countries that are not Western democracies in our sense, we are forced to seek and do so. But it is true that the United States is our most important, largest security ally, the United States will remain that way in the future. We are vitally interested that the voice and word of America should be weighty in international debate, that America should be strong, militaryly, politically and economically, and that there should also be a strong transatlantic relationship, i.e. the relationship between Europe and America. This does not mean that we do not have different approaches or differences of opinion in different policy areas, whether climate policy, certain aspects of trade policy, or in this case, for example, the approach to the UN Migration Framework. This, too, is inevitable in international cooperation, that not everything is always agreed with its allies and partners. You have pointed out Austria, the Nordic countries and our Baltic neighbours must also be mentioned. It is true that a number of countries in the European Union, but still a strongly minority part of the European Union at the moment, have expressed scepticism in various ways or degrees about this framework. It is their sovereign right. Shaping our position is our sovereign right; we do not do so under external pressure.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U65	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U66	Thank you. When you talk about dignity, it is just ridiculous in the face of this wrestling, of the lies and of the slander campaign you have unleashed, of your party member, Indrek Tarand, against the background of drunken defamation and the protection of provocative behaviour. But my question is very simple. If, allegedly, we have heard this a hundred times already, the agreement is neither mandatory nor binding, these COMMITMENTS are not obligations at all, and if Estonia should now approve this agreement, will we then see any such reheaping that we approve, but will not be able to comply? Otherwise, it wouldn't make sense to keep saying that it's not binding on us.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U67	Thank you. As I said, the objectives outlined in this framework are in line with Estonia's current policy, Estonia's current legal space. We are, in fact, a very exemplary country in terms of these objectives today. At the same time, I dare say that we are very interested in ensuring that the same principles, the same high standards, are followed by those countries that may not be as exemplary today, be it in playing their own role in international cooperation on migration, in treating their own citizens who they cannot or do not want or do not want to withdraw, for example, or in managing and defending their borders, for example in transit countries. If we can move forward and talk and perhaps agree on something in the future on the basis of the UN framework, so that migration is better managed in the world, it is certainly in Estonia's interest as well. It is true that this framework does not give us the obligation to change our laws, to change our migration policy, to receive mass migrants. All these claims are unfounded. However, I have never argued that this is a completely useless, pointless or empty initiative. This is a step in the right direction on a very important issue, which represents a challenge for a very, very large number of countries in the world.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U68	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U69	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good Minister of Foreign Affairs! Today, however, there is still a fundamental dispute over two things when we talk again about the text of this agreement: one is translation, the other is interpretation. In essence, the subject is uncontested, unnegotiated, the experts say one thing, the Chancellor of Justice says one thing about you and there is one big mess. Today we are in a situation where the government is trying to sell the pig in a bag to the people of Estonia and also to the Riigikogu. As long as the issue is not clear, it will be very difficult to decide. Then we are faced with questions about why the Finnish translation is different from the Estonian translation and so on. Do you confirm that the Estonian translation of this treaty is one hundred percent competent and unambiguous?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U70	Thank you. As I said, the UN has six official working languages. If you want to refer to the text and interpret it, I think it is best to refer to the language in which these 190 countries negotiated with each other. When we talk about how many languages there are in the world and whether one document or one text at all can be translated into all languages in such a way that there are no possibilities for interpretation in many ways, I say as a person with linguistic education that, unfortunately, this is probably not possible. Can we achieve the same results in understanding one text? I think that if all of us here as speakers of the Estonian language, most of whom speak this language as their mother tongue, look at a large part of the legislation or their drafts coming into this hall, we can see that there are very, very different interpretations and understandings. I do suggest that we take into account what is written in the text, which is unambiguous. This text is not legally binding, although one historian in his newspaper article tried to claim that the English phrase non-legally binding could also mean it is binding, but not in a legal way. Such an interpretation goes beyond the limits of logic. Non-legally binding means unambiguously non-binding in Estonian. Secondly, the text also makes it clear and clear that it does not deprive any state, including Estonia, of the right to design its migration policy in a sovereign way.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U71	Lauri Luik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U72	Thank you. Dear Minister, This issue of the migration framework is one of those that clearly confuses content and emotions altogether. The fact is, in recent weeks, there is much more focus on emotions. If we read the text of this statement by the Riigikogu on the table today, I think that Estonia's interests are clearly protected there. If we read the text of the Migration Framework, which we do not decide here today, which I believe should be decided by the Government of the Republic, then we will see a lot of general discussion and many interpretations in that text, which can be taken in the way and in the way. You have focused much in your speech on defending both this statement and the content of the migration framework. Can you highlight some of the bottlenecks that are personally disturbing you in the text of this migration framework or which make you a little cautious?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U73	As I said, if the pen had been kept by the Estonian state, then the result would certainly have been more compact, more concrete and perhaps more readable to us. But I wouldn't want to point out any bottlenecks because they'd be living their lives in public discourse. What I am saying is that many of the issues that have created emotions in Estonia, such as how to deal with migration issues in public debate, in the media, are topics with which Estonia has no problems today or long ago. They are sufficiently regulated both by our good practices and by our legal space. They create emotions, but in fact they are aspects that are actually problematic in many other countries, not in Estonia. This actually applies to quite a number of issues. It is clear that the UN migration framework has not been written for Estonia or only with regard to Estonia's migration debate or problems. There are different aspects of migration, and different countries are affected in very, very different ways. I would not say that this makes reading this text more difficult, but I would say that it allows interpretations, as if we were advised to give advice on matters that we do not need advice on based on our feelings.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U74	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U75	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! In my view, the problem is also that, on Tuesday night, the chairman of the 'Actual Camera' will say directly that today's debate is not legally binding on the government. I have realised that you, as Minister for Foreign Affairs, have very strongly supported the view that the government must shape a position here and that it is within its competence. Why, then, did you go along with the initiative of your groupmates that such a draft decision or statement would be submitted to the Riigikogu under the conditions mentioned above? Do you not feel that you have been mistrusted by the Socialist Group as Minister of Foreign Affairs at the moment?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U76	I'll start at the end. No, I certainly do not feel that the Socialist Group has mistrusted me as the Foreign Minister. I have felt support and understanding and have received much help from my good colleagues. Thank them so much for that! I believe that the Social Democrats have been in a very united, very clear position throughout this process. Yes, I think that the executive should be able to make a decision on this matter. Parliament's statement is a genre, according to the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure Act, which, as initiators, can only be submitted to this procedure by Members. It can't be done by the government, it can't be done by anyone outside this hall. That is how this draft statement has arrived here, initiated by 39 members of the Riigikogu, and its future fate is in the hands of the great hall today. What else would I say to that question? Legal obligation. Indeed, the statement of the Riigikogu is not legally binding on the government to a similar extent, as if the decision of the Riigikogu were, for example, a decision of the Riigikogu. If a draft decision of the Riigikogu had been submitted to the proceedings of the Riigikogu, it would be absolutely unambiguously legally binding. I do think that if the majority of the Riigikogu adopts a political statement expressing the will of the majority of the legislator, it is politically binding on the government, because the government needs to know that the fate of the government is in the hands of this hall. If the government refuses to comply with the political guideline given to it by the legislative body, then the legislative body will have the means to distrust the government or one of its members. So legal compulsion and political compulsion are certainly different things. The Riigikogu can initiate or propose to the Government of the Republic for the purposes of the Home and Working Procedures Act, which is also binding. So the Riigikogu has more than one way in which the Riigikogu can give legally binding guidelines to the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U77	Mati Raidma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U78	Thank you very much. Good minister! I have more of a question of content. I'd like to put my emotions aside. How can it be that experts from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with very long experience, who have been dealing with international texts for decades, share the same view and, as I understand it, very competent people dealing with legal texts at the Ministry of Justice? This precedent itself is quite alarming and it can open a new way, eventually bring all things to the Riigikogu. Is this a ministerial confrontation or a ministerial confrontation or a party confrontation that these ministers represent? Unfortunately, the third one is quite missing here. Can you give some concrete examples of two ministries having a flat impact?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U79	Thank you. I know that you yourself have also been at the Stenbock desk as a member of the Government of the Republic and certainly more than once have faced a situation where ministries, including lawyers from different ministries, have fundamentally different opinions. I am not saying that this situation is normal, but it is far from exceptional. There is even one saying that maybe a little overreacting, but it is said that if there are two lawyers, there are three opinions. I guess that's why this professorship is put into practice, that there can be different legal interpretations. Is there a political dimension in this exchange of views? I have said many times that there is no doubt.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U80	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U81	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! The reason why we are here is quite obvious: this government is not decisive and therefore the Riigikogu is also asked to adopt a statement to imitate this decision. You've said it yourself, and I think it's wrong in nature, too. The constitutional order is founded on many principles, including the idea that each branch of power has its own role and responsibility. Now I'm running a little ahead of time, but this is also an important subject as a framework. I know that the Fatherland doesn't want to be like the Centre Party and that the government should make any decisions, because this government is powerless to decide. The Fatherland, Soccer and Centre Party are likely to vote on the proposals of the Reform Party today, knowing that we cannot expect our help and support to the government if the proposals on respect for constitutional roles are not supported. It will be inevitable: in the final vote, this statement will probably be received by the votes of the Centre Party and the Soviets. Do you agree that a government that cannot find 51 votes in support of an important vote has, in essence, been distrusted in a vote of confidence?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U82	Thank you. First of all, you're much better than I'm aware of what's going on in this room today. Since you're a person who works all the time in this house, I'm sure it's natural. If this were to happen, it could certainly not be interpreted as a vote of censure on the part of the government. But if the government is unable to make decisions and come to an agreement in the long run, then it will no doubt say something about the government's ability to work. What can you do about it? Well, that depends on a number of factors, including certainly the closeness of the regular elections. In this situation, unfortunately, we are today, yes, we are.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U83	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U84	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! I have not heard anyone talk today about freedom of expression and the restriction of freedom of expression that this document itself provides for. If we have to start talking about those who come here in any other way, in a more general way, and take any measures for those who may have a simpler form of expression, do you not see that as an insult to freedom of expression?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U85	In the Republic of Estonia, freedom of expression is protected by the Constitution. That's the way it's supposed to be. Freedom of expression is an important part of democracy, the functioning of democracy. The current government and the Riigikogu, as well as all futures, are obliged to maintain freedom of expression, expression and press in high esteem and to resist attempts to reduce or damage the space in which this freedom of expression is realized. Of course, I do not see that this legally non-binding framework could in one way or another result in an obligation to restrict expression or freedom of expression in any way.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U86	Barbi Pilvre, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U87	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! Like many others, I was on this field today talking to people. Perhaps you will finally say a few or three sentences, which would make it clear that, when Estonia joins the migration agreement, the doors of Estonia will not open to the new hundreds of thousands or millions of people, above all, from Africa, that no numbers have been agreed on how many people Estonia will have to accept in the coming years. I heard 2,8 million, for example. Maybe you'll say a few more clear ideas that would calm people down.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U88	In those days, I have heard a lot, much bigger numbers being spoken. No, this framework does not give Estonia any numerical obligation. No Estonian party, I think that no group of pressure or interest groups outside the parliament wants mass immigration; it does not want to bring millions or hundreds of thousands of people of different cultural backgrounds to Estonia. Such stories are not responsible and simply not true. So I suggest that all page readers and television viewers, as well as those who come out to express their attitude with flags and slogans, remain on the surface of rational arguments in this debate, critically assess the arguments that are being offered to them. This is the best way in which we can keep Estonia not only political culture, but also culture more broadly so that we do not fall into the trap of our fears and prejudices.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U89	Anne Sulling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U90	Good chairman of the sitting! Good Minister of Foreign Affairs! The final text of the Migration Framework was ready by mid-July. Why did this come to the debate in the Committee on Foreign Affairs only last week?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U91	Thank you. The Committee on Foreign Affairs expressed its wish to meet me on this subject and to listen to me not last week, but the week before last, and once again before the debate on this statement, indeed last week. But from this process we informed the Committee on Foreign Affairs in fact already in March, as did the Cabinet. At the time, we received input from the Ministry of Justice to shape Estonia's positions, which we also took into account in the discussions in the study. I think it has been quite remarkable to observe how, after the conclusion of the negotiation process in July, there was quite a happy silence not only in Estonia but also in other countries experiencing this debate for several months. Here in the Estonian Parliament, one must admit, one parliamentary party did indeed ask questions in Question Time to me and to the Prime Minister weeks and weeks ago. So the subject, as such, could not have been unknown to anyone who, by virtue of his post or position, should be aware of these issues. I was, to a large extent, based on the fact that this is the role of the Government of the Republic and that the Government of the Republic has a duty to shape the position. As Parliament raised its voice and wished to be involved, I, as the representative of the executive, am absolutely ready to contribute to this parliamentary debate, both today and in the future, and I was prepared in the past. If Parliament considers that it does not want it to do so, then of course I will try everything I can to ensure that the government is able to cope with its responsibilities.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U92	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U93	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. It is appreciated that you are quite frank about how cooperative or how unanimous the government is when it comes to deciding on this migration framework. The role of the government is to shape its position, as has been said here, consensually, that is what you have said right now. Can you predict what the next three months will be in this government where there is no consensus?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U94	Thank you. I can try to predict it in a few hours, perhaps, when this hall is finished with its discussion here. I suppose that, to some extent, will also depend on the outcome of your debate today. But I can assure you that the Estonian state will not be left unmanaged for these three months, and the Estonian state will definitely have a government, hopefully a majority government after 3 March.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U95	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U96	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Secretary of State! I still can't figure out how you're gonna be able to talk about this round. When I looked at this document along with these revised translations, I saw that there was always a "obligation" and a "obligation" that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs translated was like a suggestion or something.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U97	Thank you. Repeating is the mother of wisdom, that's what they say. Let's go over it again. This is a non-legally binding document, which does not result in Estonia being obliged to change its legal space; it does not result in Estonia being obliged to change its migration policy or to waive its sovereign decisions in shaping its migration policy. International cooperation and international debate to manage migration are necessary for global security and development, but they are certainly in line with Estonia's interests as well. There is no party in Estonia that would like to promote mass immigration either by approving this document or otherwise.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U98	Thank you, Foreign Minister Sven Mikser! I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U99	Let's go to the next item. Political statement by Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu regarding the draft statement by the Riigikogu on the UN Global Migration Framework 758. Please, Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu! Honourable Riigikogu, the procedure for processing the political statement of ministers is always a matter of agreement between the Minister and the Head of the Riigikogu. The Minister of Justice's political statement lasts up to 20 minutes and we have agreed that no questions will be asked to the Minister, but then there will be a chance to negotiate. Please, Urmas Reinsalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U100	Good people's representation! Estonian lawyers have expressed different views on the international migration agreement...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U101	Sorry, Urmas Reinsalu! Jürgen Ligi has a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U102	In some ways, I will return to my first question. This agenda is very unexpected. The Riigikogu did not know to wait for ministers here, and it was not particularly expected that the debate would be organised so differently here. We would have liked to know that we would have the floor, apart from the presentation of ministers, and we would have liked to have asked questions to both ministers. Explain what our options are.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U103	I'll explain. The minister submits the application to the management board of the Riigikogu. The Board of the Riigikogu has always allowed ministers to submit applications. It is in this form that the Minister makes his political statement, according to the law, the MP has the right to ask a question, and after that there will also be negotiations, as was the case with Sven Mikser's statement. I opened the negotiations, but no one wanted to participate in the negotiations, so the first item ended. This morning, the Minister of Justice expressed his wish to make a political statement. We have always respected the Minister's wishes on matters. It was his wish to make a statement and not to answer the questions, but after that the negotiations will come. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U104	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I must admit that if at the beginning of the sitting the statements of two ministers are in a different procedural key, one will answer the questions, the other will not answer, then it is not very understandable. If we rely very much on this understanding or the statement that the role of the Riigikogu should be more important than the executive power, did the Riigikogu Board not consider the possibility that ministerial statements could be at the end of the agenda rather than at the beginning?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U105	Both ministers asked for this to happen at the beginning of the agenda, and I understand them. Tarmo Kruusimäe, procedural question. No, it's not. Kristen Michal, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a question as to whether the Bureau did not consider or discuss at that moment that ministers could be treated in a uniform manner. Mr. Reinsalu, I know, uses a computer. He could have sent that text on a computer, not read it here. We could have read it in his voice. We'd really like to ask him why he thinks that.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U107	The Governing Board has always been guided by the desire of ministers for each government. The most typical example is the transfer of the state budget, which is the same political statement as the Prime Minister is here before you. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U108	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The first chance to negotiate was because of the suddenness of the procedure. Will there now be a chance to talk about this point?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U109	Absolutely. Mati Raidma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U110	I have a procedural question. Can't the Bureau see that it would be statesmanly at the outset to say that there is a different procedure for the various ministers to appear in front of this Chamber? Then we could have planned our own work. Or are you going to bring us some surprises on the third item?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U111	I have always been guided by the fact that in front of each item on the agenda, I explain the procedure, because it might slip out of my mind. I note that the next time two ministers come in with a statement and it happens that one occurrence procedure is different from the other, I will make sure you are clear. Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U112	Thank you, good speaker! As you can see, Members have an interest in asking questions. Do we have such an opportunity to change the procedure at this stage and still allow Members to ask?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U113	The request made to us by the Minister of Justice was only a political statement. He gave up answering questions. George Adams.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U114	Mr President, is it possible to negotiate with all members of the Riigikogu or only representatives of the political groups?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U115	Representatives of the political groups shall take part in the negotiations on political statements. I read this request in advance: 'In Judging from § 155 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures, at the beginning of the session of the Riigikogu on 26 November 2018, I wish to make a political statement with a duration of 20 minutes in connection with the Riigikogu's statement 'on the UN Global Migration Framework'. I do not consider it necessary to ask questions to me and to answer them whenever possible. ' Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U116	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! In this case, when it comes to an extraordinary sitting, did the Bureau really not consider not letting the Minister speak at all if he was not ready to answer the questions? We have told the public today that we want a debate. Now it's like we're afraid of a debate. We agree with one of the ministers' proposals not to ask him questions. How do you figure that out? Did the board think everything through?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U117	This is to be understood so that the Home and Working Procedures Act gives the Bureau one rule: the Minister must have the opportunity to make a statement before the Riigikogu. I hope a person with ministerial experience understands that in every way. It has been used for various reasons. I also believe that the Minister's wish and whether he considers something necessary or not has been taken into account. Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U118	Thank you, good Chairman. Would it theoretically be possible for the board to take a break, talk about the employer's position with his subordinate, or member of the government, and say that he could answer the employer's questions? What if there's a chance? I'm guessing.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U119	That's the way it is, but I don't see any posture that's gonna work. Keit Pentus-Rosimannus.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U120	This last statement, of course, was interesting. However, I am going to question for a moment what I asked for with the previous question. The Minister has submitted a request and, as you have quoted, the request states that, if possible, he does not wish to answer the questions. It is, of course, a separate story as to why the Minister of Foreign Affairs is prepared to answer questions, but the Minister of Justice is afraid of questions. Nevertheless, I ask whether, at this stage, it is possible for Parliament, which has appointed the government, to decide that it wants to ask questions and that it also wants answers to these questions. Do we have that chance?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U121	Unfortunately, the Home and Working Procedures Act does not provide for this possibility. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U122	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Can't we be flexible? After all, the spirit and desire of the hall are discernible. The Minister of Justice is also in front of us on the remote; we can not only draw conclusions according to the body language, but the President could now ask the Minister of Justice if he is ready to respond. In this case, the Board of the Riigikogu could meet and change this format. I believe the great hall supports it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U123	You don't even have to meet the board for that. I am prepared to meet the Minister if he has such a desire, but I also respect the requests that are made. Olga Ivanova, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U124	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I'm still worried about the rights under the windows. We do not have the opportunity to make a round of negotiations, we cannot give a speech, nor can we ask questions. I think this is a deep violation of our rights. So maybe it's worth thinking about anyone asking at least one question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U125	This was possible during the last item on the agenda, and it is also possible during the next item on the agenda. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U126	Thank you. I have a procedural question again. When I listened to these questions and your answers, I still had this feeling, I'm pretty sure it's the right feeling, that at this stage, it's really up to you to decide if you want to let the hall ask questions. In Urmas Reinsalu's statement, he would refrain from answering questions if possible. If you just say there's no chance, and then let the hall ask? Why do we have to bring the same tactics in this hall as the government has now used, that we can't decide and we can't squirm or let people debate? Give us a chance. We've come here today to ask Urmas. [[???Hääl saalist: 'Muidu polekski tulnud.'???]]
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U127	I'll take the manager's break five minutes. I don't think he's gonna answer in front of you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U128	My dear friends, no one asked me.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U129	Honourable Riigikogu! Following short but very fruitful negotiations, I will re-present the procedure for this item on the agenda. First, there is the political statement of the Minister of Justice, which lasts up to 20 minutes, then you can ask the minister questions (each member of the Riigikogu has one question) and after that there will be negotiations, during which representatives of the political groups will receive the floor. Please, Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U130	A respectable representative of the people! Estonian lawyers have expressed different views on the legal and political binding of the international migration agreement. Academicist Lauri Mälksoo, international law expert René Värk and former Chancellor of Justice Allar Jõks have highlighted the potential impact of this agreement on the development of ordinary international law. The Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise, who is in office, has pointed out that only a long-term one-way practice can form the norm of ordinary international law. His position is supported by Kari Käsper, Head of the Human Rights Centre, who (I refer to the point made in Postimees on 14 November) points out that ordinary international law arises in such a way that, for decades, countries are based not only on words but also on some principles. Legal assessments by the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are also different. So, what is the effect of this treaty? Does it have no meaning, it is mere rhetoric, the implementation of which states do not plan or commit to plan? On Friday, I received an assessment by a legal expert of global weight, which, I hope, will provide the Riigikogu with further clarity for its decision. Dr Anne Peters is the director of the most influential Institute of International Law in Germany, Max Planck of Heidelberg, the Institute of Comparative Law and International Law. So, on 21 November, he published an article in a magazine on European international law entitled 'Global Migration Agreement: Sign or Not? '. In his article, Dr. Peters himself honestly emphasizes his personal conviction that global migration needs to be regulated. Therefore, it is certainly an objective source for people supporting the agreement. As a conceptual explanation, Professor Peters uses the word commitment in his article. I had legal translators translate this article into Estonian and, without any evidence from me, they used the word 'obligation' instead of 'obligation' used in the official translation of the current Estonian-language treaty. Surprised by this, I asked the second legal translator to translate again the place where dedication is spoken, and he also used the word 'obligation'. As a starting point, Professor Peters points out that the migration agreement is not an international agreement and it is a non-legally binding agreement. However, in its analysis, it addresses two key issues for us: the impact and the legal purpose of this agreement. I will bring these sub-headings to you in a holistic way to avoid distortions. 'Possible effectiveness of the migration agreement': In the context of international relations, the difference between formally binding and non-binding texts seems smaller than in national law. The reason is that even a strong law (international or national courts) can only rarely be enforced. The more or less well-functioning institutions did not have, and still do not have, an official international legal status. For example, GATT 1947 was an agreement that never entered into force, but was still provisionally applied until 1994. Despite the fact that the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe changed its name to the Organisation by the 1994 Budapest Decision (paragraph 29), this form does not constitute an official international organisation. It has no Treaty or international legal personality. Nevertheless, the OSCE plays an important role in security issues in Europe, and many participants, especially the United States, see its flexibility as an advantage. Many international agreements cover only soft documentation mechanisms such as reporting, discussion groups and similar. The mechanism for the follow-up and monitoring of the migration agreement is not too far from such agreements. As regards the implementation of the Agreement, three strategies or instruments are mentioned: the capacity building mechanism and the network (paragraph 45) and the reporting by the UN Secretary-General twice a year (paragraph 46). The follow-up and monitoring section will include the International Monitoring Forum on Migration (paragraph 49), which will meet every four years from 2022 and will result in a progress report (point 49 (e)). Some guidance on the organisation of these monitoring forums can be found in section 54. The agreement stresses that monitoring is a'state-led' process, but involves 'all relevant stakeholders'. " From the point of view of international law, is it a good sign or a bad sign if some governments refuse to sign an agreement and even take soft law too seriously? It is difficult to answer that question. (It states, I stress, Professor Peters. (U.R.) If governments were to act in good faith, their cautiousness could in principle be considered as a willingness to comply with the'obligations' covered by the agreement. However, the second explanation for sudden reluctance is simply the fact that they have seized the opportunity to turn to their partners and members of the public who are hostile to migrants. It is therefore not possible to draw general conclusions on the strategic value of such texts. Ultimately, the agreement can in practice prove as effective or ineffective as an international agreement, can be implemented and can lead to the desired changes. Thus, the difference between a soft and strong contract is not so much less effective, but rather seems to refer to a different basis of legitimacy. ' The second sub-chapter of Professor Peters' analysis 'Legal and other functions of the migration agreement': 'The legal functions of the migration agreement could be considered as functions of the so-called pre-law, para-law and legal annex (law plus). The text proposed in the agreement can be a pre-legal text that acts as a precursor to a strong right, or paves the way for a formal agreement. It may also lead to the development of ordinary international law. Of course, this requires the implementation of the principle of opinio juris and accompanying action for a certain period of time. When countries that sign, as here, explicitly say that commitments are not legally binding, it is difficult to derive legal opinions from this. The situation is therefore very different from the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the force of which has been applied to some laws of which is the force of ordinary international law. Another example is the 2007 UN Declaration on Indigenous Peoples, which is not legally binding. Australia, as a country with its history of discrimination and destruction of indigenous peoples, voted against this declaration at the United Nations General Assembly, but two years later (2009) decided to adopt the text. Some of the provisions of this declaration are still being adapted. Unlike the Migration Agreement, the Declaration of Indigenous Peoples seems much more like an agreement with short and clearer provisions. The soft law text can replace the missing strong law (parallel). Indeed, to a certain extent, the migration agreement has been subject to very little ratification of the 1990 International Convention on the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant Workers and Members of their Families, which has so far been ratified by only 34 countries and has not included any European countries of destination for migration. Texts of soft law, such as the migration agreement, may also serve as a guideline for the interpretation of a strong law, clarification of obligations covered by a strong law, and making more concrete (a function of an annex to law). For example, the agreement may add some details to the obligations arising from the Conventions on Citizenship (cf. Objective 4) and the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organised Crime (cf. Objective 10). The agreement is also used by national authorities and courts to interpret national law. It can also act as a parameter for the exercise of discretion by national administrations. In general, therefore, the signing of the migration agreement is not of any legal significance. (I stress that this whole story is a report by Professor Peters, director of the Max Planck Institute, of analysis. I'll continue his analysis. (U.R.) At first glance, the soft law document seems to be the second best option compared to a real and binding contract. However, there are many strategic advantages to this option. In the absence of formal legal quality, there is a high degree of flexibility. The development and adoption of such texts is usually simpler and faster. They are also easier to cancel. ' Let's get this straight. Professor Peters' assessment is clear in these conclusions on the effectiveness and legal function of the agreement: the migration agreement is not of legal significance and the agreement concerns, inter alia, the United Nations Convention on the Reduction of Citizenship and the United Nations Convention on the Protection of All Migrant Workers and Members of Their Families. The Republic of Estonia has not joined these acts in the clear knowledge that we want to maintain our decision-making powers on migration issues. This has been the clear foreign policy course of the Republic of Estonia. That's what they want to change course right now. The right of self-determination in migration policy in the context of the world is deliberately or unintentionally confused with the western course of Estonia. The agreement is, on the one hand, legal, but, on the other hand, with a much greater weight, it is a policy. What, then, is our vision of global migration to preserve the European cultural space and the Estonian nation state? These questions, of course, are far more important than legalism. We are now being offered a merger with our boyfriend's blink of eyes so that it will not be fulfilled anyway. If we want to be honest, we must also dare to ask ourselves that perhaps this global migration-enhancing course is not the only right path for all countries. The ideological father of this migration agreement is Peter Sutherland, a man who is no longer alive, former UN High Commissioner for Migration and Director of the WTO. At the end of last week, I read his 2012 joint article entitled 'The challenge of immigration in Europe', which appeared in The Guardian. He had written this article with Cecilia Malmström, Commissioner of the European Commission today. Its authors state that European countries must finally and honestly recognise that, like the United States, Canada and Australia, they are immigrant countries and the proportion of non-born residents in a number of European countries, such as Spain, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands and Greece, are similar to their share in the United States. (End of quote.) Yes, Canada, Australia, the United States of America, but in Europe there are nation states with a basic nationality! The authors continue to believe that the promotion of migration is absolutely necessary to resist the ageing of Europe's population. At the same time, I would point out that our Riigikogu is looking forward to the adoption of 'Principles of National Policy 2035', which is contrary to the migration philosophy of the migration agreement. This document emphasises that Estonia does not set itself the goal of substitution migration, which would require the reduction in the number of employees due to population change to be compensated by recruiting full-time workers in the same amount. However, since World War II, a number of European countries have done so, precisely by implementing cheap labour in the interests of economic growth. It's their choice, but it shouldn't be our choice. Today there are two thirds of Estonians in the Estonian population, and in 1989 there were 60% of Estonians. If the period of occupation had lasted, Estonians would probably have become a minority in Estonia during this generation. Population projections for the Estonian SSR at the end of the 1970s estimated the population of about 2.3 million people in 2075. Our population is shrinking, so all international and national population projections show. It's a painful note. The question is that if you take into account emigration, birth rate and life expectancy, what kind of immigration and when Estonians would become a minority in Estonia. Each country chooses its own migration policy options. For example, if we were to apply a Swedish migration policy in per capita terms, which they have had in their last generation, in a passionate way, extrapolating what I did last night, it would appear that Estonians would be outnumbered in terms of the share of the total population from a two-generation perspective. And these are numbers, not political intimidation or slogans. Anyone who is interested in a quantitative calculation can do this. Alongside the problem of the politically correct population policy as a birth rate and demography, this most important issue for the nation state is pulsing into our faces. The purpose of the Republic of Estonia as a political unit is to be a state that guarantees the survival of the Estonian people. Our situation is unique in the world. We want to remain a nation. But we have a population crisis and the indigenous people, the Estonian people, are two thirds in this country. So let us summarise: the country must maintain maximum control in migration policy and understand exactly what is happening. A separate question is what awaits mankind from the perspective of the century. According to the United Nations population forecast, there are currently half a billion people in the European Union. By the end of the century, 600 million will be forecast. There are 1.2 billion people living on the African continent. By the end of the century, the maximum UN scenario is estimated at 6 billion. Toomas Hendrik Ilves, President of the Republic at the time, said in 2015 that it was time for the great migration of peoples, referring to the migration crisis. It was a strong image and perhaps a prophetic image. During the migration of nations, we remember history, replaced some nations on the map of the world with others. Reflecting on the pressure of migration: when we talk about the need to change the global legal order, perhaps today's UN Convention on the Status of Refugees, created after the Second World War and due to these circumstances, has fallen behind in time and should allow countries to take their own measures as they wish, naturally preserving the principle of human dignity and human rights that is inalienable. A good representative of the people, let us consider these questions, please. People without a social or historical perspective say that we are discussing an irrelevant issue. It's not like that. It is a timeless question: where we come from and where we go. I hope that the representatives of the people will make their choice free of party political pressure and vote down this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U131	There are questions for the Minister. Javier's outfit.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U132	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! It's like a competitive trial in an American movie where the parties are passionately defending opposing positions and then the jurors critically discuss and tell who's right and who's going to jail. But the point is that we are not in an American movie, we are in the Estonian Riigikogu, and it is good practice here that when the government presents its position, this position is uniform and understandable to Parliament. Not only is it good practice for us that the government has a position on important matters of state life. In this case, I do not understand which of us should believe whether Sven Mikser or you, a good waitress, and what is the position of the government in particular is whether we should vote in favour or against this statement. So what happens now? You seem to have a suspension.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U133	Thank you. But don't believe me, believe your own political experience. When you were the head of the Government of the Republic, Prime Minister, there were different concepts in the coalition at the time, both in terms of the law of cohabitation and the implementing provisions of the Cohabitation Act, and then neither did the most angry critics say that there was a suspension in the government. There were different views of the world, and they were protected from the voice of the representative of the people. I think that, if the members of the National Council have wished to discuss this issue, the members of the National Council also have a responsibility to decide. This responsibility, I think, must certainly not be withdrawn from the cowardly hall on such a fundamental issue. I hope that all members of the National Council will take part in the vote today. As far as the government's position on this issue is concerned, the answer is clear. I also repeat the position of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who spoke above, who said that he proposed to the Government of the Republic to join the Migration Framework, but in accordance with the principle of consensus, this proposal did not find support in the Government of the Republic, or was opposed, so the government did not decide to join this agreement. Now there's an information operation, saying the government can't decide. How can you not decide? After all, the government formed a position with a factual consequence. Whether someone likes it or not is a question of their own. Similarly, if you go to your employer and ask for a salary of 3000 euros from 1 January, but your employer says that there is no money, you do not receive a salary, do you think the employer has decided that the salary is 3000 euros or not? You have to think exactly the same way here. It may be unfamiliar at first glance, but people with more political experience understand how the decision-making process is at government level. That's what it's all about.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U134	Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U135	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister! You have done a lot of work on the legal assessment of this framework in recent weeks, but from the past, I only remember that in March, the government's starting points were designed to shape this text. I do not recall anything special about the reaction when the text of the framework came in July. Why is that? Have you only discovered in recent weeks that this is such a burning issue? Similarly, in fact, looking back, in 2016 one basis was already in place to shape this framework, that was the New York Declaration. There was no response to this either. At the time, we also had presidential candidates for the current debate. This topic did not come up at all. Why is that?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U136	Well, friends, the answer is very clear. It also refers to the government's approval of the agreement in March, and I have corrected it. The government may have approved one or two A4 pages of attitudes towards the migration framework or position. It sounded very effective, it was about curbing irregular migration, etc. I must admit that perhaps the day before the government meeting or when it was a project came into the government's stash. I looked at it, tens of pages of English flea writing. I was worried about what this project might bring. We had a debate with the Foreign Minister, to which he referred, at the meeting of the Government on 15 March. I asked you to take this subject off the agenda. Indeed, at the time, without going into the details of this project, I considered it necessary to make three important improvements. These important improvements were that this agreement must not serve as a basis for the development of ordinary international law, that this agreement must not force states to amend any internal law, and that this agreement should in no way change national sovereignty. This is how the Republic of Estonia developed its position. Why was it not discussed over the years, as a central topic at the Estonian presidential election in the summer of 2016, etc.? Well, guys, I'd like to show myself as a genius who works night and day and examines the papers on the UN website. But the honest answer is, just as he came up in this form to know the people's representatives and experts, when the trigger must have been, I think Lauri Mälksoo turned out, so he returned to my sight as a topic.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U137	Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U138	Thank you. Mr. Minister! In my view, too, this topic has actually returned thanks to Lauri Mälkkool and I have never been blamed for the frivolous attitude to migration, the opposite being blamed all the time. But when I listen to you, I wonder where your idea has suddenly turned. I haven't had to change my mind since Mälksoo stepped up. I have thought that the Riigikogu needs to be consulted on this topic and stated, which is Estonia's national interest in controlling and controlling migration. You are excluding, and today's vote by your party, as I understand it, precludes such an approach that the declaration of these values comes in the Riigikogu and the final decision is made by the government. At the moment, we have been completely confused by two ministers. What is the precise logic of your change of mind, and what do you expect of the Riigikogu today, apart from what you said, that you should vote against which many disagree?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U139	Thank you. You said that you were confused, Mr Rõivas, said that it was bad when Parliament was put to a choice when it had to decide on different positions. But, you know, I think this is Parliament's pain and responsibility. It is good that we have a debate a few months before the end of Parliament's mandate on whether or not Parliament should have the courage to take responsibility. This is certainly an important issue. I don't think you're really confused. You certainly have, as you said, your views on these matters. My job here today is to provide information of legal importance. I referred to a document that came into my hands on Friday. I'll say it again. Here, I believe it has been unfairly sought to humiliate Estonian experts in international law or to attribute to them political intentions which I do not believe they have revealed. All experts have honestly stated their diagnosis, regardless of whether they conceptually or globally support the ambitions of this agreement or the objectives of global migration in such a way of regulating it. This has led to confusion about how it is possible for lawyers to have different opinions. If you ask whether the situation has developed that Parliament has to take a decision, then the answer is that this situation has developed. As far as it goes back to the government, I say: the Government of the Republic has discussed this issue and shaped its position. Whether someone likes it or not, it's an opera on its own. And I remember in the government of Taavi Rõivas, where there were Hanno Pevkur and all kinds of characters, we weren't on this general migration, be it regular or irregular, but we dealt with refugee matters, and there was dancing and chasing over these forms. I said no to a lot of things back then, there's nothing to say.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U140	Arto Aas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U141	Thank you. As far as I know, the government has not shaped a position either for or against. The government just hasn't made a decision. I also find it strange that you so highly trust a foreign expert who we have not heard here, but you mistrust our own Chancellor of Justice of the Republic of Estonia. I understand that you want to take this debate to see whether this framework is legally binding or not. This is a very interesting debate. But there has been less hearing about what is so unpleasant in this agreement that makes it incomprehensible or unpleasant for you to join it. I read here in black on white that the aim is to reduce illegal migration and its negative effects. It says that countries have the right to make their own sovereign decisions, that they want to reduce the negative effects that make people travel, etc. In my opinion, this agreement itself has very reasonable objectives. Whether he is legally binding or not is, in my opinion, secondary, because certain principles of the agreement are fully acceptable. Or what's bothering you about that?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U142	I would like to highlight two problems that the Chancellor of Justice actually raised as a question at the meeting of the Cabinet, which was perhaps the week before last, where the position was formed, which meant Estonia not joining this agreement. Isn't that a decision? I think it can still be seen as having its own result, and this result is not to be merged. The Chancellor of Justice actually said in his opinion that the agreement was constitutional. This has not been contested by anyone, nor have the most angry opponents of this treaty claimed that the state could not join the treaty, so that the Constitution would not allow it in terms of legal order. Of course he'll allow it. The question is, is that reasonable? The Chancellor of Justice pointed out that the agreement could become part of ordinary international law on the basis of a long-term practice in the same direction. This is the opinion of the Chancellor of Justice that you will see when you go to the page of the Chancellor of Justice.ee. That's the last sentence of his statement, Mr. Aas. The Chancellor of Justice pointed out two things that are "riskier" in this agreement. The first is that countries must take steps to ensure that victims of trafficking in human beings are granted a life-long or fixed-term residence permit. What does that mean? If we should implement this political commitment, we should declare that this is our aim, then that means that if, for example, people from the East really come here, for example, this situation is undoubtedly tragic for people, their human dignity is humiliating, the fact is that people from Vietnam and other Asian countries who have crossed the border as victims of human trafficking, we should start giving them residence permits. Believe me, this may turn into an upside-down interpretation and give a signal in terms of encouraging human trafficking. The second point I highlight is that countries undertake to enter into transnational and regional agreements in order to facilitate labour migration. What does that mean? Promoting labour migration as a matter of self, as an end in itself, an economic migration as a matter of itself. That was precisely the political, ideological fact that I emphasised. World countries, Western European countries, after World War II, had one of the sources of economic growth that developed economic growth in the 1960s, a cheap labour force. States have a sovereign right to make such a decision, and I think it should remain a sovereign right for states. I do not agree to declare, as a political commitment, that our aim is to promote labour migration as a matter of own accord with regional agreements. I do not even know what these regional agreements would mean in the context of Estonia, then the Baltic Sea countries or our neighbouring countries that do not belong to the European Union. These are such political issues. I agree, legalism is one thing, that is what I emphasised in the second part of my speech. The second question is the ideology that this agreement has, and this ideology drives me mad. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U143	Please, Laine Randjärv!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U144	Thank you. Good minister! Professor Peters' views were heard with your help, and we also heard your view that the aim is now to change the foreign policy course of the Republic of Estonia. However, I did not hear the view as to why you were still in this government. You once said you couldn't bring Fatherland to your knees. If your party does not now take this opportunity to send the statement at issue back to the government today and does not show your negative position in the cabinet versus the Socats and the Centre Party, then it seems to me that you have been brought to your knees after all. What is the Fatherland's view on this matter? Please answer with one sentence: base, say, aim.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U145	Good Wave! The position of the Fatherland developed at the meeting of the Government of the Republic or the cabinet meeting two weeks ago. This resulted in the rejection of the Foreign Minister's proposal in the Government of the Republic, which results in the Republic of Estonia not joining this agreement, from which MEPs have initiated a draft statement, which the high legislator has an obligation to discuss at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U146	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U147	Good manager! Good waitress! Explain to me why the Social Democrats at all costs are trying to push this agreement through, even though our main ally, the United States, has sent it into the trash. What is the real motive of the Sots, why do they need to push it through at all costs with the Centre Party? Just a little bit more. Why did the Socialist Speaker not want to give you the floor or ask you questions first?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U148	Thank you. I'm gonna answer the second question. I don't want to hurt Eik. My body language was not very favourable to these questions. I just felt a little bit of schoolboy pleasure, I wanted all the Members to ask so that they could ask. I waited for the end. Sorry about that! I think Eiki Nestor read my body language. He didn't really tactically read my back wrong. But when it comes to this social democrat matter, I do not think that it is undoubtedly worth giving anyone such an incorrect attitude that it is a party-political issue. Obviously, it wouldn't be fair, obviously wouldn't be fair. I think that the Social Democratic Party has also not discussed this agreement in its group of ambassadors before than it is now, from the surface of this storm and its debate this autumn, when the issue had come up at all. I think the center of gravity is somewhere else. The centre of gravity lies here that this agreement has been technocratically prepared by authorities, authorities have found it necessary for some tactical diplomatic interests. Now there's a system alert. Politicians dare to discuss foreign policy issues that can have a very profound meaning for the future of our country. It's not a first. What are we talking about here, social democrats? When the Nord Stream pipe was being discussed in the government during Ansip, it was the same, from Rävala's novelty came like a fire-breathing mountain, so how dare you make such a joke and say no to Nord Stream. Very influential people said that Estonia is damaging its reputation. Fatherland's tantrums once again said we were going to do it, but there were also opponents. There were opponents. The second agreement is in the preamble to the border treaty. Interestingly, Lauri Mälksoo also plays a certain role in this case, who again, as an academic, pointed out that the approval of a border agreement without a declaration could actually not be said rigidly again in later years, but said that in later international law disputes concerning legal continuity, he would become a fact that could be interpreted to the detriment of the Republic of Estonia. That was also the reason for the huge screaming and screaming. I remember when Prime Minister Ansip said, "Exposed! ' I remember him getting Members out of his Stenbock and saying: 'Go away, no way, no way, it will damage everything and put it at stake! " But it was done in the preamble, and it was based on a long - term constitutional view. These things are, I think, more interpretable so that politicians in a wider context, in a public representation, members of the government have this perspective in order to look at things exactly that way, cognitively considering different things. What they're afraid of, how can an American jury consider, is the responsibility of a representative of the people. No one can take that away from us.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U149	Since a question was asked on this subject, a few words will explain. The unanimous decision of the Riigikogu's board was to accept the wish of the Minister of Justice that he should not answer questions after his presentation. As the hall expressed a different opinion, the Board of the Riigikogu flexibly changed its decision at the time and is grateful to the Minister of Justice, who agreed to this change. Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U150	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! In my opinion, the failure of the system is due to the government's wish to formulate its decisions only by consensus. Have you prepared a legal analysis of the need for the government to take decisions by consensus? Why has the current government and the members of the government not called for a simple vote on the basis of which a clear decision should be taken, yes or no? In today's situation, it is not clear what the government's position is.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U151	The Government of the Republic discussed this during the cabinet meeting the week before last. The Government did not approve the Foreign Minister's proposal to join this document because there was no consensus among its partners. Of course, this is not a legal category, there is nothing legal to analyse, there is obviously no legal binding consensus on matters. I think that in a democratic country there is a very high value in decisions that cause change, which any government can do, but perhaps on important issues, there is even greater value in decisions that are not made.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U152	Marko Mihkelson.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U153	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! This debate here today shows how important the Riigikogu Foreign Affairs Committee raised when it wanted to receive an assessment of the migration agreement agreed in July from the members of the government and also from the Academician Mälksoo. I really sincerely surprised that the members of our government, including you, the good Urmas, did not really know for several months what had been agreed upon. I have a very simple question for you. What do you think should be the attitude towards a government that does not dare to decide and whose members do not know which agreements will be concluded anywhere on behalf of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U154	Thank you. I think that Marko Mihkelson really deserves recognition, he was not afraid and dared to bring this matter to the attention of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the courageous question. I think it actually comes from the logic of the foreign law of communication. The Foreign Relations Act is built on competing competences within the government, but it gives the Foreign Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu a very clear function and it is a coordinating function. This must certainly be seriously and appropriately furnished. There's no agreement, I don't understand this fatalistic reasoning. We are now discussing the accession to this agreement, which will take place in December. Whether it is in December or January, it may not have been set, a vote will follow at the UN General Assembly, where the agreement will be adopted by the UN. Here you have also tried to create the impression that it is now too late, where you were in 2016, where you were in 1991, where you were when the Baltic Way was. Where it was necessary, we were all, I guess. Now that the question has come to the table in society, there are different opinions in society, there are different opinions in this Chamber, there are different opinions in the government, there are different opinions among the Estonian people, as we have seen, it is, I think, wrong to say that we are going to shut down these opinions. If there are different opinions, then the government has discussed this issue and, as I said, I have pointed out here several times, the office has developed a position based on consensus.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U155	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U156	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! You quickly reached a consensus on the issue of roofing money and the various suitcases that the members of the party are taking to the NPOs' door. But on a more difficult issue, you did not reach consensus or dare to vote on it. However, it has been said that this statement today, which Parliament is debating, is not binding on the government, which suggests that the government will ultimately have to make a decision. The Prime Minister has said today that if there is no support from this house, he will be ready to take it back to the government for a vote. Do you consider it to be your mistrust by the Prime Minister or not, and how do you intend to proceed?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U157	Thank you. This statement by the Prime Minister, I do not deny, is certainly an expression of pressure for the Fatherland to change its views, which offers the Prime Minister's understanding of how to move forward. I'm sure the Fatherland will discuss it. It is our interest to take all possible steps so that Estonia does not join this agreement. I would point out that decisions in coalition governments are difficult to make in important matters. I remember that when the Social Democrats left the government in 2009, the Reform Party actually had a proposal to invite the People's Union to the government. We discussed the coalition agreement with the Reform Party, the so-called project, if the People's League would come or not. Finally, the Coalition of the Fatherland was rejected by the People's League. But if there were trialogues with the People's Union, there were Near and all those who were discussing serious issues, taxes, cuts and other things, then Tarmo Mänd said that he would see that it is still difficult, it is no wonder that the opposition is not involved in decision-making, decisions are so painfully, so hard that there is no more power for the opposition. It has never been an easy burden for different governments to come to an understanding in the coalition. But who has said that life must be easy? Is such a principle under constitutional protection? No, it's not.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U158	Martin Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U159	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. We know that the Fatherland has taken a clear position here. Whether this position comes from the world view or has been taken for other reasons, it is not important, it is important that this cat catch the mice. We have a number of amendments on this table, one of which would direct decision-making back to government, and as I understand it, the Isamaa Group is not in favour of it. But it is clear to all of us that if this statement is accepted here today, there will be votes here, then in Marrakech it will be signed in any case. So rerouting the government could be one way to stop the process, forcing coalition associates to take your position into account. Why don't you support it? That's my one question. The second question: if, however, here today, this statement is pushed through or if it goes to the government and it is pushed through in the government, what will you do next? If you continue to sit in the government, then it is clear to everyone that your position was insincere.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U160	Thank you. We will certainly take all the measures that are conceivable so that Estonia does not join this agreement. However, I would like to draw attention to a legal design for the UN-level approval of international law, which is the so-called accession method. This means that if the Republic of Estonia does nothing, so-called pretending to be dead, we will still be deemed to have joined this agreement. In order to prevent the Republic of Estonia from joining this agreement, the Republic of Estonia must declare it, as several countries have already done, to date six or seven Member States of the European Union have done so. Consequently, active decision-making is needed. When the Government of the Republic made this decision two weeks ago, the Minister of Foreign Affairs admitted that he would make this decision, and beyond that it is that the Republic of Estonia does not unite, that is the political consequence of it. The question now is that, if today Parliament does not make this decision, it does not clearly state whether it is joining this treaty or making reservations, as the amendments of the Fatherland and some others have proposed, it will undoubtedly create a debate, which means that there is still a need for active decision-making. This criticism of the government, whether it was a decision or not, is like the same question: what is the will of the representative of the people, whether it is a decision or not? On this fundamental issue, I call on the representative of the people to make a clear and bold statement, not to maneuver with tactical procedures. If the political environment has become such that this decision must be taken by the representative of the people, then this decision must also be made here today. I call on you to say no to this agreement. I propose that we do so in this way, as envisaged by the amendment of the Fatherland, which actually replaces the treaty-friendly declaration with an unambiguous, impeccable, international law-based statement.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U161	Please, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U162	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! According to the pace of conducting this statement, as was the first ten minutes, there may be reason to hope that, after the government disintegrates, you may face a brilliant rap career. But today you are still in the role of the Minister of Justice. You have given us the impression here on quite a number of occasions, or you have indicated that the government has a position on joining the migration framework. I will be honest with you that you have, in this case, been very skilful in concealing this position, because today we are still gathering here because the government has not been able to make a decision. Since the Prime Minister has repeatedly confirmed that he supports Estonia's accession to the Migration Framework, what is the government's position on joining the Migration Framework?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U163	Thank you. The Government of the Republic, when discussing this two weeks ago at the Cabinet meeting, did not support or approve the Foreign Minister's proposal because there was no consensus on the support of the Foreign Minister's proposal. Its political consequence is that Estonia does not join it as of now. Obviously, many Members of Parliament have not liked it; MEPs have set up a platform for shaping a corresponding political declaration of will in this representative of the people, with which the representative of the people must now say yes or no to this agreement as a senior judge on behalf of the Estonian people.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U164	Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U165	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! In this jury pact, I believe there are references to muzzles and restrictions on freedom of expression in the media. If we determine how we're going to take migrants under a common name, can my naughty name, the 'vandersell pact', later cause me to be taken to a detention facility?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U166	This round of topics concerns the hate speech that he was there, criminalising or ensuring penalties, not, perhaps, specifically, in terms of criminalisation, in the case of hate speech against migrants. This pressure on additional regulation of hate speech, euphemistically speaking, but, in fact, it is precisely from the point of view of criminalisation that comes from the door and window. During the career of the Minister of Justice, I have rejected these initiatives, which the European Commission has also requested, in any way, to incorporate in criminal law this further into our legal order. I think one of the fundamental values for the good functioning of our society is freedom of expression, and ugly words are actually a matter of the nursery, not of the police.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U167	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U168	Thank you very much for a very constructive and meaningful presentation. The behavior of the Sots is two-faced and strange. It is claimed that the agreement is non-binding and so insignificant that it was intended to limit itself to informing the Riigikogu, but it is so important to them that they are prepared to create a government crisis and go against public opinion. As this is a crucial issue for the future of Estonia and the people, the question should be put to a referendum. This is possible because it is not an external agreement. The EKRE has submitted a corresponding draft. Let the people decide. Do you support the final word to be said by the highest power in the Estonian state, or people?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U169	Of course, I support the fact that the highest power, the people, must say the final word, but I think that this referendum will actually take place on 3 March. I would like to point out that it is going here, how it is going, I hope that Parliament will vote down this agreement today, so we have either option. Let's say the country doesn't join. In fact, it will then be possible for the country to join it in the future, which means that there will be a government policy in this direction, a course of government and then accession. It's not such an eternity question whether or not we're going to catch a spaceship once in the history of mankind. The second option is backwards: if, for some reason, this debate is due to the fact that it leads to accession, it is possible for the country to turn it down, just as several countries have done on a number of issues, such as the Iranian agreement, for example, the United States has decided to leave, the same professor Peters gave this example in his article. So what I am saying is that there is a need for clarity on this important issue, I think, and this question goes far beyond what I believe we are discussing here today. I would like to draw attention to the framework for our migration policy. Regardless of some Marrakesh agreement, we see real and constant pressure to have extensive labour immigration to Estonia. They say what are you kidding about that migration? Let's open the papers! After all, there is a systematic processing of society that is an exclusive scenario for our economic prosperity and well-being. That is what I said when I referred to Peter Sutherland's words that, by bringing the economic argument, migration would be encouraged on the basis of people's less or more selfish reasoning. I think there are a number of questions here concerning citizenship policy and other things. This must be seen as a fundamental whole. The question still goes on to say whether the people of the century will last in number, i.e. the Estonian people in this political sense, as we mean it, and there is another question that we must honestly ask, as unpleasant as it is for some, whether the Estonians in this country remain in the majority. That's a question we can't get past. Let's look at demographic numbers, they're in the negative UN population scenario or in the population forecast of the Human Development Report. The darkest scenario of recent years, I remember, speaks of 600,000 people in the end of the century. What do you mean, 600,000 people? If we extrapolate this figure, does this mean that there are 600,000 Estonians and 200,000 people of other nationalities in proportion to the population? Is that it? Do we agree with this scenario? Let's make an estimate: how many thousands of migrants must come here in 80 years, provided that there are the same rates of birth rates and large emigrations, how many thousands of people, assuming that they do not integrate into this community, so that these numbers can be converted in the 80-year term? I did not give a Swedish example in vain. We are not talking about some virtual thing, they have a very nice country, they have very nice people living there, but they have chosen the philosophy of migration over the last 20 years as a result of their internal policy choices, which means that if these numbers were extrapolated to per capita Estonia, the option they have chosen over the last 20 years, then, from the perspective of two generations, Estonians would be outnumbered. It's a reality. So different countries have different choices. This debate, by the way, is completely legitimate, can easily imagine another type of country that is not a nation state. But I think that when we talk about a nation state, I think there are a number of important preconditions for its functioning. Certainly, without the weight of the Estonians, it is difficult to argue even legally, albeit politically, in reality.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U170	Please, Olga Ivanova!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U171	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, The fact that as a representative of the people, the Riigikogu now suddenly has to solve the problem that has arisen in the government is simply a beautiful talk to the media and the people. I would rather be interested in the question that, if we learned today that the Prime Minister is prepared to go against the Coalition Agreement, that is to say to put the matter to a vote in the government, whether the Fatherland is at all prepared to take responsibility for its words and to leave the government. And I have a sincere request: save our time and please say yes or no.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U172	Since there was such a great urge for my answers, Olga, I will take this opportunity to open up all these issues thoroughly. I am taking the time to do so because, indeed, Parliament's overwhelming desire even forced the Bureau to consider it. My answer is very unambiguous: we are applying all the political tools that we have at our disposal so that the Republic of Estonia does not join this agreement. It was like the question was addressed to me, but why did you bring it to the Riigikogu? I have not brought it to the Riigikogu. Dear representatives of the people, I would like you to stop discussing this issue. The Government of the Republic has taken up a position in the Cabinet meeting based on a consensual decision, and I do not have the position that the Republic of Estonia will not join this agreement, no problem. My sleep is long and healthy, I'm in a good mood, I went to the Paljassaare Dog Shelter last night. I live well. I do not have a bite to shout that Estonia has not joined this migration agreement. But this action that's going on here... There is no point in denying why Parliament has gathered: to have a mandate for a representative of the people to approve this agreement. That's why they come together, most of them sitting here because of it. There's no point in being hypocritical.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U173	Thomas Stone Mountain.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U174	Thank you. Very honourable Minister! It's ugly in the coalition. It was pretty painful to listen to it. If it had come out of the mouth of a member of the opposition, perhaps it would have been understandable, but if it was said by one of the members of the coalition, it is unprecedented. Indeed, in my opinion, it is also quite ugly when the government's greatest decision is considered not to be a decision. I think it's philologically justified, but that's not what the government is for. It is the government's job to make decisions, and if you so-called bounce the ball on the leg of the Riigikogu that you have to decide if we cannot, then this government is not responsible. If the Riigikogu approves this statement today, I would argue that you and Fatherland have been brought to their knees by the Soccer and the Centre Party. What will follow, and will the next demonstration on the UN Migration Framework bring together the Fatherland and the EKRE?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U175	Thomas, no one will bring the Fatherland to its knees, I promise you that. But now the question about it turned out to be, like, nondeciding and so on. But that's a position. I'll give you an upside down example. During the reign of Taavi Rõivas, Minister of the Interior Hanno Pevkur brought to the government a bilateral agreement (announced an official document) with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, which the Republic of Estonia had to conclude in order to join the global refugee reception scheme. It was brought to the office of the Dress of Taavi. But I said no to it, I did not fit into this scheme, this refugee reception scheme, which was on the table during the rule of Taavi Rõivas, and which the Minister of the Interior brought there. And it wasn't accepted. Was it a great indecisiveness, or did we then fall down and the state could not function for three years? No, the country lived on well, didn't it? We have lived on, we have acted without this agreement with the High Commissioner for Refugees, and we have got our things done nicely. I don't think this thing has to be in this black color. Well, what does that mean? It's ugly today, it's great tomorrow, it's ugly again.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U176	Kristen Michal.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U177	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! You and the government have a position that's as simple and as clear as changing traffic on Gonsiori Street. We're actually here because the government can't decide. There is a constitutional order in Estonia which provides for a division of roles between the parliament and the government. You know it well, it won't come as a surprise to you. If, by this evening, we come to the fact that the Fatherland does not support our proposal for the government to do its job, this statement will go through, as you know, it is not a decision on the framework, but a statement with the votes of the Centre Party and the Soviets, or a minority. I have a simple question for you: if you say you're fighting it, what are you going to do after you talk? After that, will you submit a resignation, or will the position and the deposit be sweeter than the principles, as is the case with the Fatherland lately?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U178	Kristen, I haven't held on to my chair. If a paper is now being prepared (I am now making an enormous amount of joy, perhaps a few saddened), that there is an unambiguous view that Estonia does not join this agreement and that my position is related to it, then, dear friends, in five seconds I will make this decision, here is no question. Now it is the question of the Reform Party. It's very simple. You say it's a crazy decision not to have a crazy decision. The government has reached a position on this matter. This is not what many Members of Parliament like, which is why Parliament is discussing it today. I do not have a problem; I do not think that this issue needs to be discussed again by the government, because the government has reached a position. Now it's a matter of community representation. Yes, in your ranks, the Estonian Reform Party, there are many people who would really like to vote in favour of the proposal of the Fatherland, say no to this agreement. Now, I understand, the Reform Party, in order not to break up this vote, has chosen different tactics. But we'll see about that in a few hours. It's a vote of conscience. I hope that all representatives of the people and political groups will declare that Members are free to vote, and they will courageously vote on the fundamental question of whether or not to say yes to this agreement. I don't see a question here that needs to be so scared. You don't have to be afraid. Now I come back to this draft bilateral agreement between the UN Commissioner for Refugees and the Republic of Estonia. Well, I missed it. I'll get the exact analogy. MEPs could also have brought it to Parliament and discussed it; the representative of the people could have formed a position. At the time, many big words were made on different motives that Estonia would be ashamed. As far as I am aware, it has been pointed out that only a few Member States of the European Union, including the Visegrád countries, have not joined the United Nations Commissioner for Refugees and the bilateral agreement of the country in order to receive refugees under the global scheme. Well, Estonia stays with some of these countries and there's nothing. That was a little bit of a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U179	Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U180	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. It is quite clear that from this hall the decision-making goes back to the government. My question is, what does the Fatherland government do? Will you stick to the position you have now, and if this statement is pushed through by the votes of the government and the votes of the ministers of the Centre Party, will you then still be clear and leave the government? What is your answer?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U181	The answer is unambiguous. Our position is unambiguous. On this basis, the Cabinet has already discussed this issue. We are also doing this in this Chamber today. If under any circumstances it should be brought back on the table of the government, of course we will not change our position.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U182	Thank you. Minister, it seems to me that you are a conjuncturist. On 15 March, including, you yourself, mentioned this in your previous text, the government discussed negotiating positions in the context of this framework. As your Minister of Justice, you did not fully agree with these positions and said that you wanted to make improvements. It was discussed again on 22 March. You got everything you wanted. All your amendments that you have made, all the improvements, the government, I understand that, were unanimously supported. Sven Mikser confirmed this last week at the meeting of the Committee on European Union Affairs. What are we talking about here today, how many months later, in a situation where you are pulling out a straw before the elections, in fact, having already solved all your concerns?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U183	Kalle Palling.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U184	No, I don't want to talk here, it's just there was a big wish for me to answer the questions. I had it written down, transcripted between me and the Minister of Foreign Affairs on 15 March. It's two A4 pages long. Since the meetings of the government are closed, it is simply not fair for me to disclose it in terms of political correctness, but in essence there was a debate between me and the Minister of Foreign Affairs on the possible international binding nature. We were talking about approving negotiating positions. I made my improvements, I've called them here. There were three of them in order, in essence, to give reinforcements from every direction or guarantees that this must not be the source of the formation of a new ordinary law, that must not lead to an obligation to amend any law, and that must not lead to any restrictions on our right to self-determination. That was the negotiating position. If you look at this debate and the assessments of our best experts in international law, it must be acknowledged that they have taken the view that this assumption of position, that ordinary law will not be changed, and this final text, which is out here in front of the Estonian people on the website, is not actually consistent. Whether it's consistent or not, it's a question of lawyers, isn't it, Kalle? Politicians, who are fans of this agreement, are skeptical about Estonian lawyers, say that they are affected, do some things in their domestic policy. That's why I brought to you Mrs Anne Peters's opinion. He is not a man from the forest, he is a woman, he lives in a large or small town in Heidelberg, Germany, and he is the director of the Max Planck Institute, the most important institute of international law in Germany. He specializes in these things and he wrote his analysis on 21 November, either so or there is, and this I read to you. I think this is very important decision-making information.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U185	Please, Heidy Purga!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U186	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, If by evening this same statement is not the framework accepted with the votes of the SDE and the Centre Party, and the government considers it a basis for accession, will you resign or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U187	Thank you. I don't think the Reform Party's getting cold feet. On the basis of what we have heard, on the basis of these worrying views, which have also been expressed to me by several members of the Reform Party's group of ambassadors in their interlocutors, I do not have the human right to bring them out in this speech chair, I know that you actually have concerns about this matter. You do not want to take these consequences, these risks taking into account the interests of the Estonian nation state, Estonia's independence in the field of migration. It's a tough subject. I understand that you are also being put under pressure from various authorities, and I am not talking about political pressure, but precisely in the sense of this routine. I understand Urmas Paet's fork. Ten years of being on Rävala Avenue is a very long time, it is a very long time from the point of view of such an identification philosophy or the philosophy of such a consensual transit. But it should not be confused with the main line of Estonian foreign policy. Oh-oh-oh, you can't do that under any circumstances. So, Heidy, back up, we vote for the proposal of the Fatherland, and we all come out of this together stronger than we'd ever believed. Believe me. And then this is the victory of today's debate. We have all won this then: Estonian society has received important information about the problems and problems of this agreement, a clear view has been reached and we can move on. Believe me! The idea that Estonia will fall to the top if this agreement is not there, Heidy, is not serious. You agree, don't you?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U188	Please, Kristen Michal!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U189	Good President, I have a procedural question. Since the question and the answer we heard definitely didn't come together, can you check whether the sound from the speakers will come where the performer is?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U190	The short answer is: yes, it will. The same would be a long answer. Just in case, I would like to remind you that in the debate on today's main item, we will be discussing a possible statement by the Riigikogu, not the migration framework. So much for maybe explaining. Thank you, Minister of Justice, for your presentation and your answer to questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U191	Thank you again for the opportunity to answer these questions. It was instructive to me and, I hope, to the questioners. I hope I have been able to make competent, objective and neutral legal assessments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U192	I'm opening negotiations. On the basis of the amended agenda, the representatives of the political groups shall take the floor. Please, on behalf of the Group of the Jürgen Ligi Reform Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U193	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This improvised chaos that the government has done here today is quite difficult to speak differently than chaoticly. The two ministers basically went to Parliament, spoke a conflicting story, confused views, but still insisted that Parliament decide on the migration framework, and may not. One Agitated to vote in favour, the other voted against, but in order for the matter to be very confusing, three hours of effort were put to it. Mr Mikser may not have been so theatrical, but I would point out that we really need to be more honest and sincere with Parliament. If he chopped off the fact that this agreement is not binding, he should have admitted that no expert has quite expressed in black and white that this binding nature is still a matter of time and political commitment is also binding, which is likely to become common law over time when so many countries join. I would have liked to have heard quite frankly, and if there had been a heartfelt talk, I think, it would have been more credible. The second point where he gave us a grip was the statement that Parliament had originally said that he had to be involved, but now he does not want to make a decision. That's a direct lie. Just as the Minister of Justice said, the overwhelming motivation for bringing this whole thing before us was the warning from academicist Mälksoo, an expert in basic international law, that it is not good to let this thing go through just in silence, one declaration should be added and at least abstain. He has now made it clear that there has been a good debate and accession to the migration agreement is possible. He may not have been so critical now. But all in all, no one has had this point that it's not binding except the government, except Sven Miker and Jüri Ratas. It's not really a substantive debate, and it bothers me. It has been argued that EKRE issues should have all understood that something is going on, but in fact, the opposite is true. Because when things, we say politely, so angryly and constantly presented, no one notices where the real thing is and where the cattle boy just cries out that the wolf is coming. That's it. That was the way it was 2015 already. When there was a migration crisis, it was very difficult to get real concerns on the agenda, because someone was always screaming that the wolf would come. In that sense, everyone who said, "Hey, there's a problem." Just because someone's yelling doesn't make the problem go away. Fortunately, then they got caught and politics have changed, although it is difficult to make it effective. The Minister of Justice said exactly the opposite. We have so far received this impetus from the Academician Mälksoo and other experts who actually spoke a similar story, even the Chancellor of Justice has referred, in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, for example, to points that may become a right and a duty. To my disappointment, the Minister of Justice turned so much north here that he no longer agreed to anything, except that it is a binding agreement that must be kept away from in any case. Although he claimed that he was dealing with information of legal importance here, this was not consulting-doctor-or-aptec-type-writing with legal content. It was a whine that... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U194	Please! Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U195	... didn't really make it easier for us to decide, let's be honest. If he still puts forward such an orwellian view that the government has a position, then again, this is not a matter of legal weight. All of us understand that if the government did not reach agreement because of the opposition of the minority, it is not yet the government's position, it is just one of the undecided issues. We understand why this has not been decided, but do not say that it was a position that is stronger than other opinions, even though it is blocking. I would very much have liked the Minister of Justice to speak with legal weight on how then the exclusion from international cooperation will legally save us, practically save us or save us from what the world is doing anyway. That's what I really wanted to know. It could have been frank talk about what happens when the country says no. Whether this thing is going to live its own life, as academic Mälksoo has actually claimed, and whether or not to influence us, and if so, to what extent. Finally, there was a rumor about some sort of agreement with the Commissioner for Refugees, which the government had discussed, that it was as if a particular party had again saved Estonia with its opposition. It wasn't like that. The debate is being brought into the office not because it is very convinced that one position is right but in order to discuss it. There were criticisms from different parties and, in conclusion, we do not know what the final future of refugee policy is. It is important not to be so heroic now, and it is worth at least sticking to legal assessments, not to come here and pick a fight and run a government information operation, fooling Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U196	Mr Helme EKRE on behalf of the Group. Eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U197	Dear Deputy Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, Of course, we are the party that has been in favour of the debate being held in this Chamber from the outset. We have no problem at all; we are happy to see how people press the button both with regard to the proposals for improvement and with regard to the final vote. It would be very sympathetic if the political debate were always on the level of speeches. Unfortunately, we see Estonia's only real extreme and radical political power, or social democrats, escalate social conflict to the point where violence is basically tangible. I want to be absolutely clear to everyone, as the person who stood by: today, the war began. Indrek Tarand assaulted the organizers and began to thrash. [[Voices in the hall.]] He was drunk on top of everything. You started the violence, and then you bullied it when we try to contain it. [[Voices in the hall.]] We called security and we ended this situation, but there's no need to come and talk about how the EKRE's made it sharp. The forces in Estonia that are systematically engaged in the dismantling of the nation state, the undermining of constitutional order, the bragging of nationalists, the building of the United States of Europe have exacerbated the issue. That's what we have to fight. It's a good thing if you can fight it with phone calls, even better if it's against the people at the ballot boxes. If there are no other means, then all the resources that the people have must be used. Now I want to talk about the position of the Fatherland. Excellent and even sympathetic that Isamaa is against the migration framework or the migration agreement or the migration pact. After all, this 'framework' is actually euphemism and some misleading word of discovery. It's supposed to be. It's supposed to be. Migration not only destroys the ownership of indigenous peoples in their home country, Europe; migration also destroys the opportunity to hold a sensible democratic debate. Today is the best prove of it. If we do not exercise the right that all countries have exercised for centuries to check who, when, for how long and under what conditions will come into their territory, it is simply not possible to pursue democracy in some time, it is simply not possible. Politics is fragmenting, becoming tribal and violent. Countries such as Sweden, France, in some places Great Britain is in an essentially low-level civil war permanence state. People who come here and talk fairy tales about how nothing happens imagine that we don't have eyes in our heads, that we don't know what's going on in the world, that we don't know where the processes are going. Maybe tomorrow really nothing will happen, maybe even the day after tomorrow nothing will happen, but the process is absolutely clear, the trend is absolutely clear and cannot be given its consent. I am, of course, sorry that the Fatherland is content to take the pose, fix its opposition, but does not agree to go to the end. We know that the Sots agree, the Sots are in this sense the only political forces in this Chamber who agree with the real political damage in order to push through their disgusting ideology. Isamaa will only take the pose, but it is not ready to lower the state budget, it is not ready to let the government go north, if it is driven over by a roller, it is not ready to vote in favour of this agreement coming back to the government, where it will block it again. It's the posture he's taking. We don't take poses. We are acting and saying very clearly: we are ready to continue to escalate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U198	Mr Hannes Hanso on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U199	Ladies and gentlemen, Before I start, can I get some more time right now?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U200	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U201	That weekend, I was in Tori. You know this beautiful place next to Tori Hell, the memorial church of Estonian soldiers. It's made of earthstone, and then there's these red brick corners. While driving by, I thought several times that the people against the UN migration pact here in Estonia remind me very much of the characters who stand against the brick wall, looking at the building like this with their nose pressed against the wall, so they can see one or two bricks with a mortar border. If they took a step further, they would see a beautiful building, a historic church, and if they took a hundred more steps away, they would already see the Pärnu River, the bridge, one of the most beautiful parish houses in Estonia, the Estonian flag, the historical buildings of the horse farm, etc. The difference between the perspective of those who support the migration framework and those who do not support it, the different capacities to see things, I think, are well described here. What is happening on the planet Earth is simply happening in our homes because of today's state of the art technology. Of course, it is not possible to see a brick against the nose. The attempts, I think, to limit Estonia's role and right to participate in and lead processes in the world, are very shameful, maybe they are also included in some sort of inferiority complex. Thinking about this topic, I remembered the Kitzberg werewolf I read in school. Perhaps you will remember this text and how the oak-brains were persecuting Tiina with different, bold and honest opinions and, especially the worst, darker blood. Tiina was also atypical because she could not accept manor slavery and spiritual blindness. From among the opponents of the UN treaty, calls have come to them, I don't know who to lead at the 'they' border. We know that Tiina actually died by a bullet from the oaks. I understand that I support this highly sensible initiative, i.e. joining the UN Migration Framework. You know, there are 280 million people in the world (maybe I'm wrong with a few million) who live in a country where they're not born. This treaty doesn't bring any people here, and it doesn't bring any people here. But a global sense of responsibility, or the ability to see a large picture, and some role in directing the processes that affect us all, should be an obligation for a country like us, not a choice of like-or-not-like. Above all, it is a human rights document that focuses on people who have left their home. In my opinion, the interest of all countries that behave normally is that the world is based on order and agreements, small countries, I think, are even of an existential nature. Rather, the broader philosophical question is whether we are simply spiritually mature enough to seek solutions to the processes taking place in the world, or whether we sincerely believe that ignoring these processes is part of some sort of solution. The document, which we have clearly generated national hysteria for populist reasons, stresses and reiterates the sovereign right of all countries to implement their migration policies. You can read it; I will not read the original text in English here; our working language is Estonian. I believe everyone will understand when they read one paragraph of this text. Look, we've all moved somewhere as humankind, as nations. Our ancestor is supposedly from somewhere in Ethiopia, Estonians are from somewhere in Siberia, from Mongolia to the north. Seriously, what logical reason is there to believe that ignoring the migration process will somehow end this process? If the cars are driving, it makes sense that we're putting in place some kind of traffic code. If the planes fly, we'll set some rules that everyone has to comply with. The movement of people, when we talk about it, has been the engine of science and technology and ideas for thousands of years, an integral part of us as mankind. Right now, everybody's watching a famous movie about Freddie Mercury. Migrant, isn't it? Chaplin, I don't know, Taagepera, Einstein, the Dalai Lama, Bob Marley, Madeleine Albright, they're all migrants. And that's how it's gonna stay. The end of history, look at what Fukuyama once was too enthusiastic, obviously predicting, has not arrived. This certainly also concerns migration. Tell me how intelligent it would be to ignore the warming of the climate to think that the process that affects us all as citizens of the world will somehow disappear. Perhaps, in the opinion of some politicians at the nose-to-the-plate level, climate cooperation is also detrimental to sovereignty. Of course there is, there is no doubt. I have been in correspondence with quite a few people on the migration pact. We got this standard copy-paste text, and I started talking to these people. One wrote that it concerns people with nut color. All right. Others, since these uncivilized characters are about to move a bunch of cattle here for us, take away all of us from our homes and rooms, and climb into our bed to sleep. That's what I heard this morning for almost an hour out here in intensive communication with nice compatriots. Some say they come here to loiter, live on our expense, and eventually say, "... And take all the work away, so we have to go abroad. 'No 1 + 1 gives you some kind of weird number, if you compute it all like that. Racist undertone talk, in my opinion, about nut-colored people is just really embarrassing. I do not even know if there is a consensus in this Chamber that we have, like, people and fewer people. One lady wrote to me in reply that if you join the migration document, they will also be subject to human rights. You mean, like, really? That's a terrible story! It's a normal part of humanity. I myself come from Saaremaa and have relatives in Sweden, Colombia, the United States, New Zealand, Canada, Turkey, Spain, Great Britain. Some very distant relatives are also in Poland, and I have lived in Sweden, Great Britain, Australia. I'm not afraid of other people at all. I think in nature, those species that can adapt are the ones that survive. I would very much like us to be that species and that my children too, if they cross the border, and all of you children would be subject to some basic rights, standards, honesty in communicating with them, their right to dignity. This is what we are actually discussing here today. We're still on planet Earth. I don't want to be part of a coalition where people are stuck in their opinions and deny a simple fact. I don't think mental blindness is the real thing...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U202	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U203	... which I want to support with my actions. I think some of us here would be better off resting, on 12 December there will be a budget vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U204	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U205	I have three buttons ahead: green, yellow, red. To one coalition minister, I have expressed my distrust at the beginning of the year...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U206	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U207	I'm almost done, Eiki. Now it is a pity that one coalition partner must probably be distrusted.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U208	Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U209	Thank you so much. On behalf of the Jüri Adams Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U210	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U211	Mr President, I, too, would like to ask for more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U212	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U213	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to express my opinion on five or six subjects, from the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu to the content and text of the statement to be discussed today. I will start with the Rules of Procedure. A few years ago, I gave a series of analytical speeches on what is currently wrong with the Riigikogu Rules. One of the most important things that comes out particularly well today is that most members of the Riigikogu have been deprived of their say in the current Rules of Procedure. For example, we see today that there is no way that any member of the Riigikogu can express their opinion in any debate on any item on today's agenda. I thank my group for allowing me to express my opinion under the name of the group's speech, but you will miss this opportunity, and those who are 'windows' and do not belong to any political group will have no chance of saying anything here. This is something that needs to be corrected. It would make sense to have a procedure like that in the twentieth years in the Estonian Riigikogu, if there could not be such a thing that a member of the Riigikogu could not express an opinion, then the representative of the group was given a slightly longer time, for example three times the time for the publication of the opinion. But it wasn't what it is now. The second thing I wanted to say is that today there is such an idea that there is a need to vote in the government. I think it's a very good idea. I remember that, at least during the Mart Laar governments, this was the case and the government meetings were not too long. While opinions were beginning to repeat, the Prime Minister in charge of the sitting proposed that we vote. There was another possibility that the decision was postponed from that day. I became aware of the current regime when members of the Free Party held government negotiations with the Reform Party and others in 2015, and we were told that we would not remember the last time the government had voted. Obviously, from the time the European Union was joined, the vote in the government ended, it was exactly in 2004 or a little later, but the fact is, I would now assume that there has been no voting in the government in Estonia for 12 to 13 years. If I'm wrong, let me know. But in any case, it's a common practice. If today's debate has no other benefit than the fact that the government will vote again from time to time, this would already be an important step forward in the affairs of the Estonian state. The current method of consensus, i.e. seeking consensus, ultimately comes down to the importance of having a more durable butt to sit for hours and hours and hours and not to go away. This method has been, in my opinion, completely bad. Next, the Marrakech and the so-called Migration Framework. Of course, with this Marrakesh thing, if we had a slightly more experienced President and a slightly smarter Foreign Minister, they should have at least tried to keep this subject quiet during the elections. Because during this election, it is a political accident, although some parties also have a huge chance of obtaining electoral support. But a good state order would have foreseen a rare case here: to pretend that there is no such problem in the world, hoping that maybe it will work. In this connection, I will talk a little bit about some of the words used in the translation of the text of the UN Treaty. The 'travel framework' sounds beautiful, it is an alliteration title, just as Estonian folklore is, but it is certainly not accurate. The 'Raamistik' is probably taken from English as a framework translation, but we have once had laws adopted in Estonia, which have been referred to as framework laws. The peculiarity of the framework laws has been that they do not apply directly, they need some other, more specific law. But in this case, the word is certainly not correct. I saw that the Minister of Justice in his speech in particular used the journalistic short sentence 'agreement', which I would call for at least in the Riigikogu and in the official documents to avoid, as far as possible, because this short sentence has arisen by shortening the two words. One word is 'agreement', which is not a legal term, and the other word is 'contract', which is a legal term. When we talk about agreements, we drive the audience crazy because they don't know which one they're thinking of. So for the sake of accuracy, it's reasonable not to use a deal. The last thing I want to say on this subject is that the word 'global' does not, in my view, fit to be used in a political context. It would rather be 'global' or its abbreviation 'global'. Now to this text. There is certainly nothing in this text of the United Nations against the interests of the Estonian state and people or in any way anti-Estonian. But it is quite clear that quite a large part of the Estonian people are critical of the various things involved. They cannot be qualified as reservations. These are a number of comments that actually fall outside the contents of this UN text. In my understanding, the main problem we as representatives of the people need to know is that a very large number of Estonian voters probably do not want our country to ever become a target country for mass immigration. How many of these people are there, can't say, we don't have reliable data, but the general attitude seems to be that. As a development of this, a large number of voters do not want the Estonian state to support the promotion of mass migration in the world. However, unfortunately, neither of these issues exists in the text of the statement that we have before us today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U214	The political groups have no further wish to negotiate, but the Minister of Justice does. He's entitled to it. Please, Urmas Reinsalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U215	A respectable representative of the people! I came to this chair to comment on one of the statements that actually sounded above. Mr Hanso put a number of concepts together. Firstly, there are 280 million people in the world who have not been born in their own country or who have left their own country, and clear rules are needed and clear rights must be guaranteed. It was an unambiguous diagnosis, in my opinion it is an open diagnosis of ambition in that sense. In fact, I would point out that when rights are guaranteed, someone must have obligations, those who must protect these rights. It can't be that rights are guaranteed, but no one gets a liability. The exact same contradiction, I would point out, is when it is discussed that the people of Estonia have gone to Finland or Norway or live anywhere in the world, whether we do not want the rights of these people to be guaranteed. Of course, we stand up for the interests of our citizens and, of course, we want their rights to be guaranteed, but this can be achieved by completely different means than the contractual framework, the pact, the compact. The reference, as if supporting or not supporting the migration agreement, was linked to whether the inalienable concept of human rights was accepted, I think, morally obscurant and irrelevant. This has nothing to do with countries that do not wish to join this framework declaring that some people are not subject to human rights. It is such a compelling argument that I categorically reject it. In the same way, it does not mean that those countries that decide not to join, according to their country's understanding and reasoned views, would somehow deny migration and say that there should be no rules in terms of migration, regular or irregular. Think of the absurdity of this statement in its logic. After all, the United States is an immigrant society; they are all immigrants; imagine that they are essentially taking a negative position on immigration. No, that's not it. I think that Mr Hanso was honest and drew attention to the fatalist phenomenon that migration is a growing problem due to climate change, population changes and other factors. It is increasing and likely to be amplified by geometric progression. We have to take that into account. Let's look at the proportions of mankind's population, the scissors that arise between wealthy and unfamiliar nations. It's the reality that this pressure is happening. There is nothing to blame for the behavioral tactics of any person or family if they want to make a better living, but it is clear that countries have to make choices, understanding their ability to cope with migration pressures. We are talking about small Estonia, about small Estonia having to solve globe issues and take part in them. I think how we do it is how we solve them. That's it! Last week, the Riigikogu gave 11 mandates to participate in military operations in various crises in the world. The Republic of Estonia, with its mandate, sends Estonian men and women to put their lives at stake in these places in order to protect order and justice in crisis zones and to ensure that people survive there. The claim that our being sidelined has some sort of moral perspective is simply not true; it certainly is not. Of course, I do not agree with the accusation or argument that those who do not support this agreement are based on the view that this agreement is specifically designed against the interests of the Estonian people or the state. It is, to put it mildly, far from the truth. That is not the case at all. We need to understand that there are countries with very different interests in the UN, the lion's share of them is the countries of origin of migration, the smaller part, also due to income differences, are the countries of arrival of migration. There are different interests here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U216	I will close the debate on this item.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U217	We are going to the third item on the agenda: members of the Riigikogu Jevgeni Ossinovski, Eiki Nestori, Kalvi Tulma, Marianne Mikko, Jaanus Marrandi, Inara Luigase, Heljo Pikhofi, Kersti Sarapuu, Tiit Terik, Mikhail Korbi, Heimar Leng, Erki Savisaare, Märt Sults, Enn Eesmaa, Anneli Oti, Siret Kotka-Repinski, Vladimir Velman, Dmitri Dmitri, Mikhail Stalnukhini, Igor Kravchenko, Helmut Hallemaa, Marika Tuus-Lauli, Eevi Paasmäe, Toomas Väinaste, Valeri Korbi, Rainer Vakra, Toomas Pauri, Jaanus Karilidi, Karin Tammemäe, Aadu Musta, Viktor Villijevi, Helmen Küti, Toomas Jürgensteini, Hartsi Volmeri, Toomas Vissssssssssssssssssssssmu and Täikoliko, the first draft, first of the statement submitted by Mr. The opening waitress is Jevgeni Ossinovski. Please! Sorry, I'll remind you of the procedure, just in case, because there are procedural questions here today. First of all, the originators' report shall be 20 minutes, which may be extended by agreement if necessary. The presentation of the commission shall then be up to 20 minutes, which may be extended by agreement. There are further questions for the rapporteurs and one question can be asked to each of the rapporteurs. Then there will be negotiations with representatives of the political groups and committees, examination of the amendments and final vote. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U218	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good Estonian people! Lennart Meri has said, "It is very easy to talk about what everyone likes. It's much harder to tell a story that's the truth. ' But it is the truth that is needed to make the decisions necessary for Estonia to last, and today is an important day in this context. And the importance of this day is not whether Estonia approves one of the hundreds of non-binding UN declarations or not. Yes, this specific declaration contains the word'migration', but Estonia's immigration policy will not change. It is true that this debate has, for internal policy reasons, been tried to link it to the issue of mass immigration, which does not really exist in Estonia. It's a seeming fight, it's a non-negotiable debate. I don't support mass migration, social democrats don't support mass migration. In fact, there are no political parties in Estonia that support mass migration or uncontrolled migration. Period. There's no such thing. In today's debate, however, there are three important issues at stake: firstly, the continuity of Estonia's foreign policy direction, secondly, confidence in our country, and thirdly, the resilience of our society or the modern word 'begin' in the case of information attacks based on intimidation and false news. I'll start with foreign policy. For 27 years, Estonia has sought the broadest possible consensus on foreign and security policy, and has requested consensus. And the cornerstone of this consensus is the finding that Estonia's interests are best protected in a cooperative and international justice-based world. In a closed world where every country does its own thing narrowly, the loser is small and the winner is great. In a world where power, not rules, counts, happens as President Toomas Hendrik Ilves has repeatedly emphasised, quoting the history of the Peloponnese War by Thukydides: 'The strong take what they can, and the weak give what they must. ' Only in a rule-based world order will large small choices respect, and it is in this world that we can best ensure Estonia's own existence. It sounds almost vulgar, but, funnyly, we need to emphasise it today to have a say in solving global issues, we need to work with other countries; it is not possible on its own. And it's illusionary to think that by closing doors and windows and unifying yourself from international cooperation, the problems of the world simply pass us by quietly. No, I'm not. This has been Estonia's foreign policy consensus, which has developed over the years into Estonia's foreign policy direction. Yes, this foreign policy consensus has started to crumble in recent years, and its transfers are now being seen in the government as well. But there's still a way to get rid of the foreign policy heel turn. When speaking to people here in front of the Riigikogu this morning, I was asked a sensible question: if this migration paper does not affect our immigration policy, why should it join? That's a reasonable question. But such a question is based on the notion that any foreign policy step or act must necessarily bring us tangible benefits, that it is a zero sum game: if it is not possible to see the benefits, then you must immediately say no. Then you could also ask what tangible benefits Estonia gained from leading the European Union for six months. At the time, there was criticism that you can see that Estonia is holding the Presidency, but in fact it is necessary to seek compromises with other countries, and it is not possible to combat the most favourable positions for Estonia. And as a member of the UN Security Council, where we strive as a country, can we make tangiblely beneficial decisions for Estonia? I can't really do that. But we can show that we are a partner in international politics who has a desire to cooperate and who has the voice that we can, but we also have to take into account. Here's what I've been thinking. The surest guarantee of Estonia's own existence is if we are necessary for the world, because if we are necessary for the world, we will not be alone at the crucial moment. And in order not to be alone at the crucial moment, we have to work every day. That is why Estonian diplomacy is also our best security policy and the whole right-wing-popular agenda, that we remain here alone, that we close doors and windows, is extremely dangerous. This is the beginning of the end of Estonia; this is madness, because Estonia must not be left alone. Secondly, I want to talk today about the question of trust. Estonian professional diplomats have done well. As a result of this extraordinary work that these men and women have done, Estonia's international position and reputation is higher than ever in Estonian history. We've never done so well in the world. Last year we successfully managed to lead the entire European Union, we have been able to secure Estonia's security in the best possible way and establish ourselves as a progressive Western state. Let's not lift the hat, fellas! We trust those people who have been able to do so much for us, we trust the Estonian External Action Service! No person in the Republic of Estonia thinks that he is the best expert in every field. We do not think, for example, that we are the best in deciding how to put the fire out. It's not like we're gonna call out the rescuers, then we're gonna grab the hose and say, rest on your feet, guys, I know better how to turn off the fire. No, we trust professionals who have learned the thing and have the necessary experience. Yes, of course, it would be nice if foreign policy could be easily explained by using all its formats, twists and Andrus Kivirähk with small ballet steps with a few sentences so that everyone could understand it. However, unfortunately, it is not possible to make international policy as simple as changing light bulbs. It would be nice, but that's not possible, and in that case, we should trust professionals. We've seen what the understatement of field expertise leads to. The words of the former British Minister of Justice through of experts (people are fed up with experts) are a very precise summary of the arguments put forward by Brexit's supporters. What the smart guys are gonna explain, people know better. As a result, we will soon see a weaker Europe and a weaker Britain. By the way, two years later, most British people are not supporting leaving the European Union, but it is too late. And it is by no means just a matter of foreign policy. We, as elsewhere in Europe, hear calls for distrust of the legal system, free media and other institutions of a democratic state. Finally, the resilience of the state and society to information attacks based on false data and over-enhanced fears is also at issue today. When I spoke to the people in front of the Riigikogu today, I saw in people's eyes the fear that Estonia would be run over, that our people would disappear, that Estonia would not survive. Of course, we must all work every day in this Chamber to ensure Estonia's own existence and success. It is the task of politicians to provide people with a sense of security, to find real solutions to their concerns and fears, not to divide and to amplify fears. And when the avalanche arrives, as we see today, the question is whether our society and state are strong enough to endure, saying: 'Peace, friends, Estonia is not in crisis. ' We've seen the government couldn't do it. And if today the Riigikogu is unable to offer this peace, we have few people to really rely on at a critical moment. This point has, in my view, been made remarkably clear by our former colleague, Eerik-Niles Kross. I quote: 'If one of the Facebook posts and the first substantive questions by the Riigikogu is possible to upset Estonian foreign policy and bring the government into crisis, then we have a big problem in the house. It's not a joke, and it's analyzed by significantly more serious types than the EKRE. ' Yes, of course, there are elections in the background, and 97 days before the elections, politicians' play is undoubtedly great. However, also during the election campaign, it is the task of politicians to argue over the weather choices so that the country and society are not broken. If one political force undermines people's trust in the state and if violence is encouraged against those who disagree, it is irresponsible and dangerous. I quote President Meri once again: 'The state cannot play. Either the country is taken seriously or it disappears into nothing. " Elections are not a goal, but a tool for democracy. Elections turn up democracy's clock spring, which keeps the clock ticking. However, if a sense of time and space is lost during the elections, it means overturning the spring and stopping the clock. And we must realise that every step of Estonia's domestic policy has its own foreign policy echo and vice versa, every step of foreign policy has an internal policy response. Honourable Riigikogu! We have built an Estonian state with the desire to secure Estonia's own existence, and the Estonian people have decided that the best way to do this is by democratic organisation based on liberal values. It's been the right choice, it's served us well. Estonia has never done as well as it is now. Of course, there are problems, concerns, and fears that need to be resolved, but let us not go from our precious harbor to an unthinkingly stormy sea. We keep our country and our people! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U219	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are also questions for you. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U220	Thank you. Good waitress, you're scaring me with fear, scaring me that foreign policy means accepting any rules, scaring me with an EKRE, and saying there's some sort of non-negotiable debate about migration. Actually, it's not an argument. The debate is whether the Riigikogu should make its statement of support in view of all this confusion or whether the government should do so. Now, after this government information operation, where both ministers actually went to Parliament, tell us whether it was easier or more difficult for the Riigikogu to decide. And do you agree that the Riigikogu could actually adopt values about Estonia's migration policy? Did it get easier and could...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U221	You don't have to say it again.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U222	... to be the view that we give out the benefits of migration policy and the government decides?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U223	Don't have to say it twice, the question was clear. Thank you! I referred to an internal political debate that takes place outside this room. Indeed, it has become essentially a social dispute over whether someone supports mass migration and if anyone opposes it. I'm saying it's a non-negotiable debate. There is no such debate in Estonian society or in Estonian politics, because there is no political party that supports mass migration. I now come to the question. I think that today's debate is important, and this is clearly demonstrated by the public interest in it. I saw the Riigikogu's live broadcast being followed by a thousand people at one point. I've been here a long time, and I think it's a record score. People have an interest in this debate, and I think it is very good that Parliament is discussing it. As regards the question of whether decision-making has become simpler or more complicated as a result of what one or another speaker has said, I would say that decision-making on this issue should be very simple, regardless of what one or the other person says on this board. After all, this is a choice of value. Of course, some people may be upset that someone said some kind of bad or wrong word, but in the end, I find it very easy to decide when a person has values in place. I hope you, too, a good questioner, aren't you?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U224	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U225	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ossinovski, you must have really agreed with the Foreign Minister on this point that no party wants mass migration. I agree with that. But I do not agree that this is a non-negotiable debate, and I would also reject this political pingpong, whether it is the government or the Riigikogu. My question is rather this: why did the initiators make such a weak one-way statement in the text, and why has the initiator not supported the proposals of the Free Party, in particular the fourth and ninth proposals (the smaller ones you have supported), where it is clearly stated that migration should be avoided from idealising formations and attitudes, and that the migration framework should not lead to promoting migration as such?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U226	Thank you. This statement is probably a common vision of the demonstrators as to what the text of the statement might look like. Of course, according to the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, all political groups have been able to table amendments to this effect, which have also been done in a number of ways. After speeches and questions, the Riigikogu will also vote on them, and then all members of the Riigikogu will have an equal opportunity to decide how this text should be modified.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U227	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U228	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress, I was very disturbed by your performance on Tuesday night at the AK, where you, face on a mummary, said that our debate today is not binding on the government in any way. In my opinion, this Pandora Box for the next Riigikogu formations, where our role is even more puppetlike, is made more apparent. This is absolutely unacceptable to me, and I therefore have two questions. Why did the initiators not decide to submit a draft decision? Secondly, why does it not appear in the principles that the government must decide through a vote?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U229	Thank you. I can't see the interview you're referring to right now. If I used confusing expressions, I'm sorry about that. I certainly have never thought of a legislative power in a parliamentary state. On the contrary, I think, as Jüri Raidla said, that if a parliamentary state goes ahead with the decision-making of a government-level question and it is discussed in the Riigikogu, it is the triumph of parliamentaryism. I totally agree with him. I think that today's debate here gives a much stronger understanding of the position of the Estonian state on this issue. As far as the other side of your question is concerned, whether or not the government could decide on this, in principle the government could do so. This was the initial position of the Social Democrats, but it was not possible to decide in the government as we know it. We can see that this foreign policy challenge can be resolved by the legislator's majority vote on whether or not Estonia should be a party to this declaration.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U230	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U231	Good manager! Good waitress! Clearly, everyone travels: birds and people. The Mongols have traveled over a great step, and the barbarians have come where they have come. But my question is this: if 26% of Estonian citizens are in favour of this migration agreement, and our main political ally, the United States and its President Trump, has said that no Border plan, they are sending it to the trash can, why are you trying to push it through at all costs? Tell us, in a clear Estonian language, what is the problem here, that it is the Socats who are trying to push it through at all costs, creating a government crisis and putting the Prime Minister in a very difficult position.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U232	Thank you very much. In my very clear presentation in Estonian, which lasted more than ten minutes, I spoke at length and thoroughly about why I think we should support Estonia's accession to the UN Migration Framework.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U233	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U234	Thank you. Very respectable waitress, to me, your statements sound a little demagogic. You said from the remote that this is the victory of parliamentaryism, that we are discussing it here today. At the same time, you said 30 seconds earlier that your position was that it should have been discussed and decided by the government. My question to you is what the government intends to do after Parliament has either approved or rejected this statement. Does the Government of the Republic intend to discuss the matter at its meeting and make one decision? Using the words of the classics, it reminds me of the changing direction of Gonsiori Street, as Kristen Michal said some time ago. I too wrote a story in Pärnu's paper tomorrow because Prime Minister Ratas said a few days ago that the government was not going to discuss it, but this morning I read in the paper that he is of the opinion that the government should discuss it. Do you have any idea what's really gonna happen?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U235	Thank you. I quoted Jüri Raidla and you have a peculiar understanding of the meaning of the word 'demagogy'. I think we could focus right now on the fact that the Riigikogu is clearly expressing the will of the legislator in relation to this international declaration. It has been the will of the initiators that I represent here. The way in which the Government of the Republic will proceed following the adoption or non-acceptance of this declaration is a matter for another constitutional power. I can predict that this will also depend a little on the way in which this statement will be adopted today. We have not yet come to the amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U236	Jaanus Marrand, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U237	Thank you! Dear waitress, My question concerns the position of the main opposition party. I look at the text of the statement and these amendments and I have a very dual understanding of the position of the Reform Party. I know that their chairman, Kaja Kallas, has said several times that Estonia supports joining the migration framework. However, I have not understood the actual position of the Reform Party. This has changed in time: at first, just as it was supported, now just as it is not supported. Jürgen Ligi speaks one way and the other way. What's the position, you don't understand. Similarly, the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs has spoken about procedures, but basically he has never expressed his opinion. What's your opinion? Have you understood the position of the Reform Party on this matter?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U238	Thank you for this question. I've been thinking about that, too. I think I understand Jürgen Ligi's position, but less than anyone else's. And really much has been said about the procedure, less content. I looked up a quote last night. Taavi Rõivas gave a speech here in the Riigikogu on 16 July 2015. Among other words, he said: 'I very much hope that the basic principle of our foreign policy 'Never again alone! " In the end, there will be no black - and - white danger of populism. Replying to populism with populism is the same thing. By leading the country on the basis of opinion polls and online comments, we are very quickly getting stuck. Estonia should never allow itself to be governed by a sense of the moment, an illusory expression of the will of the people and political magic'. And when you quote my favorite philosopher, Friedrich Nietzsche, he says, "When the house burns, you forget to even eat lunch. ' 97 days before the elections, of course, each party's favorite dish is a move that grows support. But I really hope that today the Reform Party will not eat this lunch and come with us to erase the house.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U239	Olga Ivanova, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U240	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! I understand that the use of quotations has become very popular with both ministers and representatives of the group. But I'd rather ask that. Among the amendments made to this migration framework are the very nice amendment of the sots, which provides that the Government of the Republic organises the implementation of the guidelines given by the Riigikogu on the basis of subsection 8 (1) 12 of the Foreign Communications Act. Are you afraid that the government will not comply with this guideline given by the Riigikogu if it decides to support this migration framework, and by doing so you will ensure that Isamaa does not vote against it in the government office?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U241	Thank you. I couldn't figure out the last structure, but no, I'm not scared. I believe that there is no reason for us to be afraid of today's debate, but a clear position must be taken and Estonia can move forward.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U242	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U243	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! During the last ultra-emotional one and a half or two weeks, a lot has been painted about the evil future that will happen if Estonia does not join the agreement. It uses the expression 'falling into foreign policy mudality' and even the expression 'pairing state'. And my question is whether Estonia's biggest ally, the United States, but also Israel, Australia and many other non-Contracting States, for example, are now pariah states.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U244	Thank you. There has certainly been a strong rhetoric in recent weeks, and that is what I referred to in my speech. I am not speaking now on behalf of all the initiators, I am expressing my personal opinion. I am far from being considered a major foreign policy specialist, but from the conviction I have on this issue, I must say that nothing catastrophic is likely to happen with this one decision. But the question is, in the symbolic sense of this step, this is a certain signal. For me, the question is this way: the burden of proof that Estonia has to deviate from its current line of international cooperation is for those who are calling us to do so now, not for those who have been making foreign policy up to now on these principles for 27 years. I say that Estonia's foreign policy has been successful; the Estonian professional foreign service has done a good job. They are convinced that Estonia should also proceed with international cooperation on this non-binding declaration. And if some people say that they should not, which is a perfectly legitimate position in a democratic country, they should justify why it is considered necessary to resign from the current foreign policy direction and to distrust the Estonian professional foreign service. That's what I'd call it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U245	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U246	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress, good Evgeny! I'm not gonna be looking for any quotes from years ago. I've always admired your persistence and your strength. Ten days ago, you said that the government could not go on like this: 'That is why I have proposed to Jüri Ratas that the Minister of Justice, Reinsalu, be released from office. " That is what the leader of the coalition party, Ossinovski, said. After his statement to the ERR interview, Ossinovski said that his leading party did not consider it possible to continue in the government with Urmas Reinsalu. Mr Ossinovski recalled that this was not the first time that the Social Democrats had reservations about the work of the Minister of Justice. I understand it was an ultimatum. And my question to you is, according to your understanding, is Jüri Ratas still thinking about when to release Reinsalu, or is this ultimatum somehow outdated? How can you stay together now? You guys seem pretty happy working together here today.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U247	Good Valdo, thank you for this question. The quotations aren't bad things. I don't know why many people are trying to humiliate them. Other people still talk smart talk, sometimes smarter than me, and I don't see any reason to be ashamed of quotes. So much about the specific question that if you had read this first part of my statement, it would have been understandable for me to see what it means that the government cannot proceed in the same way. The point is that the Social Democrats and I personally do not agree that a one-sided turn is being made in the case of a coalition agreement that has previously been concluded, according to which the current foreign and security policy course will be maintained. That is the point that we expressed before this statement and we have also made a statement since then. That was my proposal on how to proceed in this situation. The Minister of Justice, as you have seen today, is very powerful. He doesn't like it, and there were different statements about why it's like that. But the question has been that we have no value in Urmas Reinsalu; we have value in Estonia's current foreign policy direction. That's what we've been working to keep going. And I hope that the Riigikogu will support this proposal so that we can move forward.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U248	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U249	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress, you feel like you're a genius. A good colleague of Marrand asked a question and you had about a minute's quote to take off immediately. Well, that's creative work, isn't it? But you're talking about the victory of democracy. If you look at the processing of this application and the fact that it can be accepted in the Riigikogu by a simple majority, the question arises as to why you did not then ask for a vote in the government in order to receive support for it, but brought it to this Riigikogu under the sign of promoting democracy. And after today's debate, regardless of how this debate ends, are you prepared to continue to insist that this matter must be discussed in the government and that the government must do the work that the people have literally chosen it for?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U250	The people have not elected a government, the honourable members of the Riigikogu have authorized the government to do this work. But, as has been said, certainly by the end of today, whenever it arrives, it will be much clearer how Estonia will move forward with this question. This depends on how the amendments are voted on and what the final text will be. I cannot speak on behalf of all the initiators, but I personally think that the amendment tabled by the Reform Party is a bad proposal. This is a bad proposal because it takes out a clear position on whether or not to support it. According to the applicants, the Riigikogu should support joining this declaration. It is certainly possible to represent the position that has already been put forward here today so that it should not be joined. However, I do not think it is right not to take a position in a parliamentary state on a matter which is sufficiently in the public interest and for which your party members have also insisted that Parliament should be more involved in this process.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U251	Marko Mihkelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U252	Thank you, good chairman of the meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, I think, in some ways, we are now dealing with a waste of time when Ukraine is about to declare martial law. I really have concerns that we are entering a situation where our government is indecisive at foreign policy level. I will now come to the draft statement. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has done its best to make this very sloppy, hastily change the prepared text so that it is in line with the basic rulebook of our foreign policy. Foreign policy is decided by the Government of the Republic, and I think the draft statement that comes from the Committee on Foreign Affairs gives very clear principles and parameters on which the government can decide. But perhaps more important to me is that, in the case of foreign policy statements, there has always been a desire for consensus in this Chamber, the will to seek consensus, especially on the initiative of the initiators. Good Evgeny, please tell me why you haven't had this will so far, including at the moment when you decided to initiate this bill with great urgency.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U253	Thank you. I want to thank the Committee on Foreign Affairs for the work you have done in processing this application. In a short time, a thorough work has been done and, of course, I believe that the text of the statement has improved compared to what the initiators could write together. As far as consensus is concerned, I would certainly ideally like us to be united on this issue, but the reality is that we are not. It is also because we are not united on this issue in this Chamber that we have not been able to form a position at the level of the government. Those political parties who have expressed their willingness to pursue Estonia's current foreign policy direction have been negotiating at various levels, including the Reform Party. We have indeed wanted the Reform Party to be among the initiators as well as to support this document. Have these tests been sufficient or not? On the first question, we know that there is less political broad ground among the initiators than I would like to. However, I hope that the final vote will still have more broad support than it is among the initiators.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U254	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U255	Thank you. During this campaign of lies and slander fired by the Soviets, your camp has repeatedly said that those who do not support the Pact of Migration and do not agree with Estonia's accession are Putin's minions, run Kremlin's policy, etc. In essence, this means that you will give birth to our very good allies, the United States, Austria, Australia, Israel, etc., there are many of these countries as Putin's puppets. Now, that's mean, nothing else, as you said here before. My question is this: wouldn't you like to look right in the mirror and admit that you are the one doing the Kremlin thing? We know that Russia is joining this pact.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U256	Thank you. You give social democrats positions that I am not aware of. And I very much doubt that the Social Democrats have made such statements. If you have any information to the contrary, I'd be happy to get to know these materials. Hopefully, these data come from reliable information channels, not from information channels based on the principle that facts should not interfere with a good story.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U257	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U258	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I asked two ministers several times whether they did not see the barrage of freedom of expression here. The press does not see much that media is muzzled within this document, but that messages need to be harmonised. I'm afraid it might extend to freedom of expression. But I do have a problem. I have not understood when migration has become a European value. The documents that speak of the values we defend are inside the word'migration'. Can you tell me, since when has migration become our value as such?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U259	Thank you. You're fighting some imaginary opponent right now. I have not talked about it, and that is why it is difficult for me to comment on it. I can comment on this first question, which concerns freedom of expression. Freedom of expression in Estonia is protected by the Constitution. The Estonian people have decided this way, and I hope that as a society we will continue to adhere to this principle. And, of course, none of the UN papers question Estonia's constitutional rule of freedom of expression.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U260	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U261	Thank you. Good waitress! The Reform Party already said last week that we are ready to support this statement if our proposals are taken into account. I think this is a perfectly legitimate position for each party. But I'm still confused. Since it seems that our proposals will not be taken into account, it is very possible that this statement will be adopted by minority votes in the Riigikogu. I have a question: what do you think this position of the Republic of Estonia is? Who goes to Morocco to represent Estonia, and with what views? There's no government decision, there's no consensus, it's not like the Minister of Foreign Affairs should go. The statement of the Riigikogu with minority votes is not legally binding; it is simply a declaration. Then who's going? The president's not going. The member of the government isn't going. So is any of the initiators going to Morocco?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U262	Thank you. The manner in which the Government of the Republic carries out subsequent procedures must be asked by the representatives of the Government of the Republic. That was an opportunity today. I can only say once again what I said once, that I think it will also depend on the way in which this statement will eventually be adopted. In order to understand the political mandate for discussing this issue in the Riigikogu, I read the executive edition of the Constitution. I'm sorry, because I don't have that quote right now. But there was such an explanation that the Riigikogu's discussion on issues of public interest would give more broad support to the decision, as it would allow the opposition to participate. Parliamentary democracy and the free mandate of a member of the Riigikogu also include the possibility of voting one way or the other and the possibility of not voting. During the process brought here by its initiators, every member of the Riigikogu is able to take a position. And, as usual, if there is no consensus, I have followed this principle that if there is no consensus on foreign policy, then it should not be led by a minority, but by a majority. The majority today can say what they think about this particular issue. If a member of the Riigikogu decides to waive his right to express a position, it is entirely legitimate and the majority is exactly what it is. But today, all 101 members of the Riigikogu have the opportunity to express their views.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U263	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U264	Thank you. Good waitress, first of all, thank you for quoting me. Indeed, even three and a half years later, I am behind these same words and I think they will continue to be topical. But I have a question. As you said, we really had the opportunity today to ask questions to the representatives of the government, but, unfortunately, the answers to the various ministers were very different. Urmas Reinsalu, for example, said that, according to his interpretation, the government has made a decision and opposed this migration agreement. That was his interpretation. We asked him in different ways and received such an answer. My understanding is similar to that of your party partner Liia Hänn, who said that the statement of the Riigikogu cannot replace the decision of the government. And my question is very simple: regardless of how it is going today, I assume that this statement will receive support either from a minority or in any other form, what will happen next? What should the government do in this case so that Estonia is not sidelined?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U265	I do not know if this is also the position of the majority of the Riigikogu, that Estonia should be a party to the UN Global Migration Framework. I believe that the procedure for today's statement, if it is a positive decision, is the way to give the necessary political mandate so that the government can proceed with it. In accordance with the laws of the Republic of Estonia, the procedure in which it is performed is within the legal framework of the Government of the Republic's decision-making powers.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U266	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U267	Thank you. Good waitress! The initiators of the draft migration pact statement, as well as the supporters of the accession to the migration pact in the media, have stressed the argument and the text of the statement emphasises this argument that this pact is not legally binding. My question to you is this: if the Migration Pact were a legally binding document in your sense, would you be willing to sign all this letter of the Pact?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U268	Thank you. If it were legally binding, the pact, as you call it, or such a document would not have been born in the United Nations. I'm sure it would have been a completely different piece of paper. As has been said, I do not consider myself to be an overly large foreign policy specialist, but it is clear that the United Nations Member States have very different visions on this issue and that is why it has been sought to agree on a minimum common section. And when efforts were made to agree on this, it turned out to be difficult, so it has been agreed that these objectives and points are not legally binding. There are certainly also sentences in this document that I would not write in it or that I would put in a completely different way.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U269	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U270	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! However, I recall, as Enn Fronta recalled here, that we are discussing a statement today, not joining the framework. This is a statement that speaks of a number of political principles, limited to four or five principles that can be found on about one page. I think these principles are even almost conservative. But why are we discussing this? Because the government is indecisive, as we have identified. I certainly congratulate the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who said it out loud and was not ashamed of it. But my question to you is more like this. It is likely that the voices of the initiators will come to this statement by the evening, a few votes here and there, which means that it is the minority of the Riigikogu that the government can rely on. Essentially, the government's vote of confidence in important politics fails. My question is who, and on what basis, will then travel to join this framework.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U271	Thank you. Why, Honourable Asker, are you subjugating your voice? You say it's gonna happen anyway, it's gonna happen and it's gonna happen. I think there has been a very important debate on this subject today. All members of the Riigikogu will probably be able to think about what is at stake and what their conscience is telling them on this issue, and they will therefore consider it necessary to state their clear position. I think that would be welcome.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U272	Peep Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U273	Thank you. Dear waitress, We have been here for more than four hours mainly because the Prime Minister is driving in a car, as the Foreign Minister expressed himself a few days ago. I would like to ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs, "Who is the driver of the locomotive?" Not the peep duck?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U274	Thank you. Surely putting a difficult political situation in the key to humor is one way of dealing with this issue. I think the situation is really bad. This process was already launched in consensus during the previous government, and in March of this year, we once again reached a consensus that we are a party to this framework. It's a bad thing that at the last minute there was this heel twist, but it's a reality. Of course, you can talk for a long time about who's responsible for what. I think that this issue of liability for fire-launderingers is certainly important, but the first task is to erase the house, and try to do so today.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U275	Mati Raidma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U276	Thank you very much. Honourable waitress! I have acquired a certain professionalism in this last sense and I say that the house can be erased in several ways, but the foundation will definitely remain. My question is focused on the future, how do you see it? Knowing the UN's full range of frameworks and declarations, most of them can be the subject of such a debate. Will they all come to the Riigikogu in the future, or can it be foreseen that the debate on the direction of foreign policy will reach this Chamber? And from this point of view, how do we look at our foreign policy decision-making process, which has actually been on the government side so far?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U277	This is where I rely on other people's expertise and testimony. If my memory isn't fooled, last year the UN adopted 313 of this type of non-binding declaration. The vast majority of them, I think, are more precisely 312 or 311 and half of them are those where the fact that they have been accepted at all is not known, let alone what their title is. And certainly none of us have read a single word of them. One reason why there has now been a debate on a specific document , which is not only here in Estonia, but in very many countries has received an internal political debate with a relatively similar rhetoric, is certainly that it simply contains the word'migration'. Given the global situation, as well as the extremely intense migration crisis of recent years in the European context, it is an emotional and explosive issue in European societies. It's like this. On the other hand, there are more extreme right-wing attacks on multilateralism, international cooperation and liberal values. Can it be strengthened in the future? I certainly don't rule it out, and my fear is that rather yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U278	Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U279	Thank you, good waitress. I was also sparked by this fire-themed image. I would like to ask you that, while you are being very moderate and holding yourself in check, you are here scolding all your colleagues for what they decided or didn't decide or how they were going to act and what they said when, but weren't you the person who put a lot of pressure on this fire a few weeks ago, with quite strong views, which you were forced to retreat from? And the Prime Minister says one day the government won't vote, and the other day the government will vote, putting all coalition partners under fire. But weren't you the trigger, even though you're warning us now that there's no point in keeping that fire?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U280	Thank you. It is a question of how important this matter of value is to be considered. There are certainly people who say that, uh, nothing that the government didn't decide then, we're going to drive forward calmly and deal with other issues. I think this is a sign moment and it is not right to act lightly here. If the anatomy of the situation or the genesis were to be assessed, then, as has been said, on 22 March or whatever March date, the government decided consensually to support Estonia's accession to this declaration, giving a mandate for negotiations. No other agreement, no other position on this matter was formed by the Government of the Republic. And at one point we read in our press release that a coalition partner group does not support it. There were other people here who, unfortunately, began to talk more about emotion than about competence that all of this was outrageous. So on this point, it became clear that a government partner has changed its position. Me and my party didn't just think it possible to leave it alone. This is an important choice of value for us, and that is why we believe that a solution needs to be found.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U281	Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U282	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, do you know how many people have reacted in social media since this morning's demonstration? They're sad. They're very sad, they're very embarrassed, they're shocked. You are one of the responsible parties on this issue we are discussing today. What do you say to these people to soothe their hearts?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U283	I went out front with my colleagues today to talk to people. Before this matter became unambiguously violent and out of hand, I was able to communicate with dozens of people who really were afraid. And this fear was based on a completely wrong understanding of what I, my party, this hall here and the government think of mass migration. When I told one person who came to me with a poster 'No mass immigration! ' because I don't support it either, he made big eyes and said, "What do you mean, how is that possible? ' Perhaps we have come to a situation where people are in the wrong state of information and, unfortunately, with the help of certain people in a state of fear. They're really scared, and a lot of people are starting to see a solution to violence. And that makes me very sad too. There was violence in the air this morning. You can feel it when a person is standing near you with a flagpole and you're not sure if you're gonna get hit in the head in the next five seconds. This is what I pointed out in 2016: playing with matches near petrol seems fun at first, but at one point there is a bang, and when it does, it will not be possible to put it back in the jar. So I hope we can still keep our cool. And to keep this calm, we need to sense responsibility that it's not really a game and at one point someone gets hurt.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U284	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U285	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! The request of the drafters of the application is self-evident. This desire has been to help where the government has become stuck and indecisive. But from this debate today, it has to be said that this has not become clearer at all. A few hours ago, the Minister of Justice of the Government was here before us, saying that if Parliament adopts this statement today, it will not resolve the situation, but create a new stalemate. I don't think that's the kind of mess anyone needs anymore, we've seen freshly how confused people behave. Can you seriously state that if Parliament approves and adopts the statement today, this issue is exhausted and no further government decision is needed?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U286	Thank you. I am not a specialist in constitutional law here, but I can assure you that I will do everything in my power to ensure that this issue is resolved unambiguously after obtaining a clear mandate from the Riigikogu. And I hope that in the end, the Riigikogu will resolve it so that Estonia will join this global declaration of migration.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U287	Terje Trei, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U288	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Excuse me, colleague. It's been such a long day. You gave a very good example of fire and matches here. It makes me feel very good to ask you a simple question, and many may understand. If we have a fire and it starts with an oven that was left open, then we might reason that maybe there was a combustible rug too easily or someone brought something into the room. But my question still goes back to the beginning: who left the oven door open? Wasn't that the government? Shouldn't the government take responsibility and be clear as to whether it decides or doesn't decide, rather than tell the man who gave the carpet that you are guilty?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U289	Thank you. I tried to follow your metaphorical reasoning, and I hope I got it right. Once again, I can repeat: yes, I think that it is bad that the government did not agree on this issue. This is bad. We wanted the government to be united on this subject in accordance with previous agreements, but today we are in a situation where this is not the case. If you use your metaphor, we can discuss who left the door open for a month. But I think maybe it'll take a while to put that fire out tonight.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U290	Margus Tsahkna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U291	Thank you. Good waitress, you were talking about fear and intimidation. I very much agree with you in this sense that right now, three months before the elections, fear is precisely used as the most powerful force in society for its political purposes, one could even say, to improve low ratings. Unfortunately, we can see what this can do, where all this can lead, when we think about today's events, where physical violence was also used or provoked. My question relates to the fact that very little has been said about the security situation in this Chamber. On Sunday another Russian aggression against Ukraine took place and our ally has declared martial law. Here's my question. I'm gonna see some play in this hall tonight. All parties, Reform Party, Isamaa and others, play games that then what happens if... Is the government crisis politically justified in this situation? What's your position?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U292	Thank you. If you ask about the games, I can quote again President Lennart Meri, who said: 'The country cannot play. Either the country is taken seriously or it disappears into nothing. ' As a result, I would really like this non-negotiation, based on emotion rather than balanced arguments, that is to say, a dispute over matters that are not really in dispute, to come to a solution and both Parliament and the Government of the Republic can deal with those matters that are really important.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U293	Honourable initiator waitress, Jevgeni Ossinovski, no further questions for you. Please speak to Oudekki Loone, member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U294	Ladies and gentlemen, While the Committee on Foreign Affairs decided that this migration framework should also be debated in Parliament, part of this desire to bring this debate to Parliament was also to avoid the events we witnessed this morning before the Riigikogu. The violent demonstration ended up kicking a member of the European Parliament. This is very serious. We wanted to offer a forum for rational discussion with pros and cons. Well, it didn't work out so well. But what aren't we in this hall? We are not sociologists or fortune tellers to tell where such events can lead, what is their cause and what happens next. It is not up to us to label the people who were there today at the demonstration. Our task is to read the political message of this event, otherwise we will betray the mandate that the people have given us to work in this Chamber. What does this violence tell us if we look cold? It says that immigration and immigration are very important issues for our fellow citizens, and the responses to the past by politicians have not been consistent with the intuition and interests of our people. I hope that we will all take this signal very seriously and put the interests of the people in the future debate on the migration framework in this Chamber, or elsewhere, ahead of the political plot. This draft was discussed by the Riigikogu Committee on Foreign Affairs at its meeting on 23 November. During the discussion of the draft proposal, Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise presented his legal assessment of the global migration framework and Foreign Minister Sven Mikser gave an overview of the procedures for supporting the migration framework. Chancellor of Justice Madise stressed that he did not make recommendations as to whether or not to approve the migration agreement is a political task; his task was impartially to describe the legal consequences. The summary view of Madise was as follows: Firstly, the UN Migration Framework is not an external agreement. Secondly, the migration framework is not legally binding. Thirdly, the vast majority of the migration framework is covered by international agreements already in place for Estonia and other European countries. Fourthly, in this very small part, which is not covered by external agreements, long-term, one-way practice may result in international ordinary law or foreign policy pressure over time. Ms Madise stressed that there was no legal obligation to accept immigrants in this agreement. Neither does it create mechanisms to monitor compliance with this framework, as it is not a legally binding agreement. Madise also gave an overview of which part of the document is currently not covered by foreign contractual obligations in the case of Estonia. These are points 19c, 18h to 18l, 21g to 21h, 21 as a whole, 23h, 26h and 36. 19c says that migrants should be given information on migratory routes in the language a foreigner possesses. There has been no such obligation so far, although the Estonian state actually offers translation in detention centres. 18h.18l, 21g.21h are points that describe possible humane behaviour in the event of major natural disasters. Point 21 refers to the adaptation of legal migration, the opportunities that countries can make for people who wish to change their country of residence to have better opportunities to do so. There is no statement of rights on this point; the aim is to start discussing these rights. Point 23h concerns countries with a large number of illegal people and aims to legalise their status. Above all, children's rights are important here. The problem is that illegal children often do not receive either education or medical care. This point makes it possible for children not to lose their education at all until a decision is made on their parents. Point 26h provides for measures for victims of trafficking in human beings to enable them, either temporarily or in specific cases, to remain permanently in the country of destination. They are partly in Estonian law, but weaker than in this migration framework. Point 36 states that migrants' remittances must be simplified. According to Madise, this is a slightly controversial point, because binding agreements to combat money laundering and terrorism say the opposite. But since this is not a binding agreement, it is up to us to assess which one remains. The Chancellor of Justice also explained that when the European Court of Human Rights talks about relevant documents to resolve a problem, it also refers to soft law, soft legislation. This means that this framework may be used as an aid to the interpretation of international agreements, whether or not the Republic of Estonia joins it. Sven Mikser gave an overview of the procedures for supporting the migration framework. A high-level intergovernmental conference will take place in Marrakech. This is a ceremonial opportunity to express support for this document. There is probably no vote. This vote may be requested by a country, but according to Mr Mikser, the conference would have failed. It is also possible that some of the countries of the United Nations General Assembly that have not wished to support this document will call for a vote. Then there are four procedural options: to be in favour or against, to abstain or not to participate. Mikser agreed with the Chancellor of Justice that this is not a legally binding instrument and does not create a new ordinary law. Questions were asked to the mixer as to whether Estonia would be able to conduct an immigration policy contrary to this document after approval. The blender found it to be. If someone wants to throw something at us politically in this regard, for example, if we do a zero immigration quota, they can do it without this compact. Legally, there is no room for reproach, as Ülle Madise said on this issue. Mr Randpere wondered whether this statement would result in consensus in the government and whether the President's participation in Marrakech had been decided. Mr Mikser pointed out that the President does not necessarily have to be the one who represents the country. Mrs Pilvre then presented the draft statement more or less in the same way as we have already heard in this Chamber. It is more important to point out the question of Mr Arables from the questions that have been put to him. He wanted to know how this document would prevent irregular migration. Ambassador Pilvre replied that migration is a complex, multifaceted issue and is fundamental to transnational cooperation, but that each country's migration policy is formed through its own decisions. Ambassador Loone pointed out that point 21 provides for the simplification of regular migration according to the labour market and demographic situation and makes a number of recommendations on how companies can better cover their needs with migrants. He wanted to know if the initiators of the draft considered this to be in the interests of Estonian workers. Ambassador Pilvre replied that Estonia is shaping its migration policy itself, Estonia has restrictions on migrant workers and there is no reason why anyone should change these restrictions on the basis of this document. The deadline for submitting amendments to the draft was 10 a.m. on Friday 23 November. By this time, five amendments were tabled by the Riigikogu Group to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The Commission has examined the amendments point by point. The representative of the group that tabled the amendment presented the content of the proposal and presented the reasons, and the Commission voted on the proposal. If you have a specific interest in this debate, it is possible to ask me questions. To sum up, some of the proposals were linguistic and the most important substantive amendments were the second and third amendments, i.e. the alternative changes made by the Fatherland and the Estonian Conservative People's Party. Both were united in the view that the Riigikogu should not support the UN Migration Pact. These proposals were not supported by the Commission in the vote. The fourth amendment, where the Estonian Free Party also proposed to draw attention to the fact that the wording of the framework deals with a number of subjective and idealising values of migration with unwarranted self-evidentness. The ambassadors Herkel, Põljaas and Loone found that migration has clearly negative effects, and the Riigikogu should send a signal to the people of Estonia that we understand not only the positive aspects of this migration framework, but also the negative aspects. The argument also arose in the debate that it is inappropriate to compare the current migration issue with the history of the world, because we are not talking about migration at all, but we are talking about migration between sovereign states, which is a very specific issue. Ambassador Pilvre found that "idealizing" is too strong a word here. During the debate, we did not find any other terms conveying the same point, which would not have gone too far from the will of the demonstrators. There was therefore no consensus here either. Ambassador Randpere mentioned that the tonality of the description does not really matter, it is important that it is a non-legally binding document. The proposal was not supported by the vote. The proposals Nos 13 and 14 of the Estonian Free Party and the Estonian Reform Party are certainly of considerable importance. Unlike the initiators' desire for the Riigikogu to adopt a clear position on the UN Migration Framework, they propose that this decision be taken by the government on the basis of the principles set out in the statement. This proposal was also supported by a majority of the Commission. The Committee on Foreign Affairs took the following procedural decisions: endorse the amended text of the draft statement (by 7, 3 against 3, with 0 abstentions) and appoint Mr Oudekki Loone as rapporteur (this decision was taken by consensus). The decision on when to discuss it in the Chamber was not to be made by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, because the Board of the Riigikogu had already convened today's sitting, where this item was on the agenda. However, the MP in Põljaa disagreed with the discussion of this draft at today's session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U295	Thank you, good waitress. I'm going to go over the protocol. You started your performance with certain positions, were these your personal views or the views of the Committee on Foreign Affairs?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U296	I agreed earlier with the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs that we brought this debate to the Riigikogu also in order to avoid such explosive problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U297	Thanks for the clarification. You have questions too. Olga Ivanova, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U298	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! There's been a habit of using quotes here. I'll use your own quote. One newspaper you have written: 'The more open the borders, the less it is possible to guarantee a welfare state: open borders actually mean an empire with an infinite number of citizens whose well-being cannot be planned. ' I would rather ask your own position on this migration framework. Do you personally believe that Estonia should join it?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U299	Thank you for the question and for my quote. This is from my Rainbow article on migration problems in general and the link between migration and the labour market. I suggest you all read it. But as a representative of the Commission, I have to say that my personal question was not discussed at this committee meeting.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U300	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I'm gonna go to some details. Here are very close proposals, one of which is fully taken into account, the other in essence. I ask for the difference between the distinction and the difference in consideration between Amendments 11 and 12, as well as the 13th and 14th proposals. The 14th proposal was proposed by the Commission itself. I would also like to point out that the language editors made the original draft statement red because it was poorly drafted. And the Commission was in a situation where this text, which came from the language editors and was before us, no longer coincides with the text on which amendments were proposed. This made the process extremely clumsy and apparently bad wordings came in. How can we avoid such situations in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U301	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U302	Thank you very much. Indeed, at the beginning of the Commission sitting before we could go to the substantive discussions, we had this debate on whether to base the document on the language. At first we found that we were taking it, but later it turned out that the language editor had not only made linguistic improvements but also made substantive improvements. It is certainly more reasonable to process such statements in such a way as to allow the linguistic editor first to review it and then to return the editorial version to the initiators so that they can examine whether they have really demonstrated their will. Sometimes a language editor forgets such a political connotation or does not perceive it as strongly as we perceive it as politicians. Could you please specify for a moment what you asked about the proposals? [[A voice from the hall.]] The discussions on proposals 11 and 12 were not too long. The introduction of these proposals was listened to and it was found that there is perhaps too strong an expression in this paragraph. The originators' representative found that the complete deletion of this paragraph goes too far from their original will. He also found that changing the words 'convincing' and 'hope' would go a little too far. Taking the whole cut off... [[Voices from the floor.]] Proposals Nos 11 and 12. Wait a minute! In the meantime, the numbering has changed in the document that we had in the Commission and which we now have in the Chamber. I mean, proposals 11 and 12 concern the question of whether we decide in this Chamber whether we support this framework or whether we send it to the government. Both proposed groups agreed in principle that these proposals could also be combined. We discussed mainly which we will vote on first and how we will technically resolve it. The proposal of the Free Party Group was discussed at length. Ambassador Herkel pointed out that the proposal is based on the fact that the Government of the Republic is the one making these decisions. Ambassador Pentus-Rosimannus pointed out that this amendment considered it necessary to avoid a situation in Estonia where the parliament has one line and the government has another line. Mr Mihkelson asked the authors of the amendments whether they wanted to combine the proposals in substance. Ambassador Loone noted that, on the one hand, the general principle of our parliamentary state is that the government should, in essence, follow the decisions that Parliament is making anyway. On the other hand, the statements are not whether we are writing that the government should make a decision or that it should not make it legally binding. So it's actually unreasonable to add this paragraph. The 14th amendment was then voted and the 13th amendment was considered to have been taken into account in substance.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U303	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U304	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Good waitress! Here's the question. Was it also the subject of discussion within the committee that the statement of the Riigikogu does not in any way empower the government to do anything, that is simply the statement of the Riigikogu and that the government should make a decision and that, on the basis of this statement, no matter how many votes in favour and against, the government cannot say that we now have the authority to act?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U305	Thank you. This was not the case in the Commission's debate. In the debate, it was a question that if we add this appeal to the government to decide, it really does not change anything. The government must decide anyway, but this is a declaration from the Riigikogu that is not binding. This is what Chancellor Madise actually spoke about. For example, if the government ignores this, Parliament will always have the opportunity to use parliamentary methods against a government that ignores Parliament's opinion. So this thought actually went through, but it was not discussed directly in this wording.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U306	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U307	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, You had the Chancellor of Justice on the Commission and apparently the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Since ministers and representatives of the government have very different views on this global migration framework, did you not have the idea of ordering a small legal expertise from impartial or, indeed, from our legal officials? Was it about how it really happens when there are two sides and everyone says it is? Who's right to stay on top of it?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U308	Thank you. We did not discuss this issue at this session. We have had such thoughts in earlier times, when we have looked at this framework of migration more broadly. Since the initiators' urge was to discuss this statement very quickly and the Riigikogu Board had actually met the initiators by that time and put it on the agenda, the Commission found itself in a situation where we simply did not have a time frame to ask for such an additional study.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U309	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U310	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! At the time when it became apparent that the government was unable to decide, the claims began to sound that if Estonia did not join the global migration framework, all our work for the non-permanent membership of the Security Council of Estonia would have gone empty. Did this issue come up in committee too? Can such drastic claims be made, are these two so dependent on each other? What are the Commission's conclusions?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U311	The Commission has not drawn any conclusions on this issue today, and we did not discuss this issue at this meeting. This problem has been going through earlier sessions, but the Committee on Foreign Affairs has not been able to get seriously into it. So we do not have any binding position on this at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U312	Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U313	Thank you. Good waitress! There has been such information that, together with the amendments decided upon by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Commission's position is such that this statement should go back to the government for a vote or for a decision. Could you enlighten us who exactly were the people who, in the final vote at 8: 3, were in favour of this statement, which we are now examining here with the amendments, going back to the government?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U314	Just a minute, I'll get the protocol right away. In favour of this amendment, which decided to include in the statement the wish for the Government of the Republic to decide to join the Migration Framework so that this decision would not come from the Riigikogu, Marko Mihkelson, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Andres Herkel, Anne Sulling and Valdo Randpere voted. Barbi Pilvre, Henn Põlluaas, Oudekki Loone and Vladimir Velman voted against, with the abstentions of Mart Nutt.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U315	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U316	Good manager! Good waitress! We recently heard from Mr Ossinovski that there were over 300 UN declarations last year that we do not know about. My question is whether the members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs know anything about them and what you remember from the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs in March where this issue was discussed. Also, have the members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, for example, read the reports of our Geneva Representation on this very subject, which are hanging up nicely?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U317	Thank you. Most of these questions concerning the migration framework were not discussed either at this Commission meeting or at the previous one. I was not present at the March session, where the subject was presented, because I was on an external mission.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U318	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U319	Thank you. Good waitress! It is now well known that we will soon be voting on the text of the statement rather than on the text of this migration agreement, because we obviously do not have the authority to either approve or reject the migration agreement. But here in the Riigikogu's costaares there is a rumor that, if there are more votes in favour than against, it is still to be interpreted as approving the migration agreement and even a mandate for either the President or the Foreign Minister to travel to Marrakech. I am absolutely sure that you discussed in the Commission what the legal status of this statement is anyway. Would you please explain to us members of the Riigikogu what we are actually voting on, whether we approve the statement or whether it is our responsibility to make this decision instead of the government and to give the mandate to either the President or the Foreign Minister?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U320	We will, of course, vote on this statement today, as was the procedural decision. Indeed, the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs asked several times what its status was. For example, Mr Pentus-Rosimannus asked the Minister directly what would become of this statement. And Minister Mikser replied that the Government of the Republic Act also allows the Government to shape its position by voting. It has been exceptionally rarely used, but such a decision is certainly not less competent or in any way unlawful.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U321	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U322	Thank you. Here it has been mentioned repeatedly that this has also been done by the Prime Minister that this agreement, the compact is not binding. I admit I haven't heard any experts say that linearly. Still, the whole thing has begun with the fact that it has a great potential for incorporation in the future, and it has been debated about how much politically, how much through ordinary law, but still. Tell me if you have listened to an expert in the committee who would say that it will not be remembered after the bump and will not have to be filled in at all. Has any of the experts said that, like they said in this hall?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U323	As I mentioned at the beginning of the report, Chancellor Ülle Madise, who has worked through this contract thoroughly with the team, presented it to us during the discussion. He used the English version to ensure that there was no question of whether anything had been lost in the translation and he unambiguously confirmed that it was not legally binding. I can also clarify this somewhat. Firstly, it is not an external agreement because the document does not contain any legal obligations. States shall not agree among themselves on what they undertake. This is not an agreement: it is not the will of the parties to have legally binding rights and obligations. States have also publicly stated in this document that they have no intention of creating legal obligations. For this purpose, points 7 and 15 of the framework may be considered, but this applies to the whole text. Each provision does not go over it, but it is declared in the migration framework. That was the opinion of the expert, Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U324	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U325	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Oudekki! Now I'm wasting half my question because you didn't answer Laine Randjärv's question before. The wave asked me to ask again. He actually wanted to know what the outcome of the final vote on this document was in the Commission. But I, in turn, want to ask a further question. Tavi was here asking about powers and other things. I asked Sven Mikser about the president's intentions to drive to Marrakech or not. I don't remember exactly what I asked for and what Sven Mikser said to me. Please be nice and find this place.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U326	Absolutely, I'll find it. Valdo Randpere wondered whether the statement adopted by the Riigikogu could give rise to consensus in the government and whether it was decided that the President of the Republic should not participate in Marrakech. Minister Mikser pointed out that the President of the Republic does not have to represent Estonia at the Marrakech High Level Conference. As regards foreign communication, the Riigikogu can adopt acts of different statuses, including those that are mandatory for the Government of the Republic. He didn't comment on who exactly went to Marrakech. [[A voice from the hall.]] Final vote. We made a procedural decision to confirm the amended text of the draft statement, with 7 (Andres Herkel, Anne Sulling, Barbi Pilvre, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Marko Mihkelson, Valdo Randpere, Vladimir Velman) and 3 members of the Commission (Henn Põllias, Mart Nutt, Oudekki Loone), with 0 abstentions.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U327	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U328	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! Several people in this Chamber have said that this migration framework is not binding. There are people with a different opinion, including myself. I have a question about this statement, which Parliament is now going to vote on, which has changed compared to what the initiators gave us last Tuesday. If Parliament is shaping its position, is it somehow binding on the government or anyone else, or is it simply Parliament's opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U329	Shall I answer the first part of the question? I mean, I want to mention one thing about legal binding. In the interests of the protocol, it is indeed important to note that when Chancellor Madise presented his position, MP Mart Nutt stressed that his analysis of the non-binding nature of this framework does not differ from that of the Chancellor of Justice, but that there are circles of political issues which, however, provide guidance. No one questioned the question of legal binding. It was under discussion whether this politically linked us in any way to international action. As for what is going to happen with this statement, we have indeed discussed this. I am again quoting Minister Mikser's position in the Commission. He said that this statement was not mandatory for the government, but it was certainly taken into account as a political guide. And Parliament also has the means to oblige the government to act in accordance with the will of the legislator.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U330	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U331	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I ask the third person that I see the barrage of freedom of speech and the muzzle of the media here. After all, it clearly states how all migrants must be generalised and the term'migrants' should be used. We have freedom of expression here, which means that we are not going to fill this frame in the amount of freedom of expression in the media. Let me get this straight. They're taking it out of there? Or how can we make the distinction that in Estonia we can say as we want, even though the UN frame says something else?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U332	Thank you. We did not discuss this particular issue in the Commission. However, a number of analogous questions were raised as to whether Estonia could behave differently than it says here. Chancellor of Justice Madise replied that it was legally possible. If the Estonian Government decides to make some kind of policy that contradicts it, then no one can legally blame us for anything. And Minister Mikser said that this is not basically a logical basis for complaining, but if anyone wants to blame us politically, he'll throw it anyway.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U333	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U334	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress, you must have been one of the few, if not the only, middle party that didn't sign it. I have a question. After all, we are processing this statement here today because the government is not able to work, it is not able to make its own decisions. When you were discussing the matter in the Commission, did you have an idea of what the position of the government is other than this statement, which is really nothing more than a formulation of principles, and what are the future steps of the government? If someone is going to join this framework, it is as if the Minister of Justice Reinsalu and the Fatherland should leave the government. If you don't, the two biggest partners in the government will be basically stupid. What is your idea of this further process?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U335	We did not discuss this kind of mathematics in the Commission; we did discuss it in substance. And our questions were about what's gonna happen to this deal. Minister Mikser promised us that what Parliament will decide will actually be taken into account by the government. And if Parliament should wish the representative of Estonia to travel to Marrakesh, then the government will certainly find a representative who will travel there. But this representative does not necessarily have to be President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U336	Helir-Valdor Seeder.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U337	Thank you. Madam waitress, you have repeatedly quoted here in your answers the Chancellor of Justice's opinion that this migration pact is not legally binding. But I have not heard you stress the position of the Chancellor of Justice, which sounds like a standard of ordinary law may arise under the framework, which may also be binding on foreign policy. Please tell me whether the Chancellor of Justice expressed what I have read in writing in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. And did you discuss what it might mean that there might be a rule of ordinary law that could be binding on foreign policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U338	Thank you. We discussed it through this optic, as I mentioned in the report, that a large part of this agreement is already covered by some kind of contract, according to Ülle Madise. And the points for which no agreements exist are 19c, 18h to 18l, 21, 23h, 26h and 36. These are the places where long-term practice can really lead to ordinary law. According to Madise, it is most likely that this ordinary law will arise in the long term in the case of point 23h, which is aimed at those countries where there are many illegal people. Estonia is not such a country, but this point sets a goal of legalisation. We have a Convention on the Rights of the Child, which also supports the principle that children do not have to suffer because of the actions of their parents. Thus, the child has the right to education and health care. So, along with other international standards, it is most likely that there might be some ordinary law at that point. This was the position expressed by Mrs Madise in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U339	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U340	Thank you, Mr President. A very honorable waitress, in one of your answers, you said that if this statement, which deals with such a value-based and principled approach to foreign affairs is accepted here, it will give the government a signal that it should behave in some way, but the way it does it is unclear. I'm trying to understand that. One dilemma has been that the government does not decide, but should decide. I wonder by what force this statement, when it is adopted, will still be, if the government no longer has to decide, but may think that if we send anyone to represent us there, the task is basically fulfilled. How can such logic apply?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U341	We in the Commission touched on this problem, asking questions from both Chancellor Madis and Minister Mikser. Basically, Minister Mikser's reply, which I have already quoted, is the only thing I can say as a representative of the Commission, such that this statement is not binding, but of course the government takes the signal of the majority in Parliament very seriously. And another thing that Chancellor Madise said was that if the government behaves against the will of a majority in Parliament, then in a parliamentary state there are legal levers to bring the government to order. Those were the phrases that we used to discuss this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U342	Mr Oudekki Loone, rapporteur for the Committee on Foreign Affairs, there are no further questions for you. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Group of the Middle Party of Enn Front, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U343	Thank you very much. Eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U344	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U345	Ladies and gentlemen, Today, the Riigikogu will vote on a statement on the UN Migration Framework. We vote in an emotional, exceptionally hot situation. At the meeting convened by the EKRE in front of the Riigikogu today, the advisor of the EKRE Group, who wished to give an explanatory speech to the members of the European Parliament, Indrek Tarandi, was forced down from the improvised stage, and the ambassador was beaten with his hands and feet. I'm referring to BNS news that might be difficult to detect bias. Good fellow countrymen! I would be happy if the breathtaking, deafening, dazzling passion now unleashed would be more in the bedrooms of Estonians. Then maybe we could have more that would please everyone, the whole people. Now, however, one of the first points of the migration framework, which is actually already in the title of the document, says that it is not a legally binding document, but a non-binding agreement. Binding agreements are international conventions ratified by national parliaments. The Chancellor of Justice, Ülle Madise, has confirmed this in essence. Good members of the Riigikogu and all the people! With today's statement in the Riigikogu and the possible support of the migration framework in Marrakech, Estonia will not give up its sovereignty to the slightest extent. We will have to decide for ourselves whether, what and how many people we are prepared to adopt, and how the measures listed in this document will be implemented. It is clear that in this volatile world, we need regular and controlled migration, where the security of all people is guaranteed, and that the UN countries are prepared and obliged to take back the people who have migrated illegally to another country. We can see very clearly that the tense situation in the world requires reliable cooperation not only on the issue of migration. The Allies are our strength. Let us consider this together, please. It is important to be among the decision-makers, not to read in the newspaper that was decided. It is important to be at the table in the room among those who make important decisions. By abandoning the migration framework, Estonia could not contribute to this crucial issue. This may lead to a situation where representatives of other countries are assigning Estonia the amount of the refugee quota, which has been minimal today thanks to our participation in the decision-making process. However, the migration landscape and the migration framework aimed at improving international cooperation on migration, including preventing irregular migration, combating trafficking in human beings and smuggling, and protecting the rights of Estonian people abroad, have caused a great deal of tension both in society and in the political landscape. There was no consensus on this issue in the government, which is why the right decision has been made: the discussion of the migration framework has been brought to the Riigikogu. Estonia is a parliamentary state where the Riigikogu can and must contribute to such matters. Let us not forget that the opposition is also democratically represented in the Riigikogu, which should suit those who would like to have a referendum on this issue. Estonian legal scientist and state figure Jüri Raidla has said that the discussion of the migration framework in the Riigikogu is the triumph of parliamentaryism. I fully agree with that. The President of Estonia, Kersti Kaljulaid, has stressed that a broad-based, transparent debate taking into account the opinion of the people and the decision of Parliament would help us step closer to the solution. As Deputy Speaker of Parliament, I regret that a number of amendments are intended to reduce Parliament's role. It is stated publicly that the Riigikogu has no role in discussing foreign matters. For many years in the Riigikogu's Committee on Foreign Affairs and in the Committee on European Union Affairs, I assure you that it is. We must not give the public the impression that there is a rubber stamp in the Riigikogu and that the discussions on migration issues must remain in the Cabinet of Government or in the back rooms of political parties. The Centre Party disagrees with this approach. Supporting the Riigikogu statement would clearly show that Estonia wishes to maintain a foreign policy line, and we will not give up this because of the pre-election pointing and turning each other away. I would like to emphasise once again that the framework respects national sovereignty and confirms the inalienable right of states to shape their immigration policies and legislation. The migration framework does not create new legal categories. Immigration is not a human right, it is governed by national legislation. The framework prioritises effective border management to ensure national security. The framework underlines the need to address the root causes of irregular migration. With the Global Migration Framework, countries do not commit to expanding legal migration channels. This has been understood by our neighbouring countries, Latvia and Finland, who, as a nation and country, know far more about us than immigration is about us. We are voting on these principles, not whether three and a half months before the elections, any government is better than the current one. We are voting on the direction of Estonia's foreign policy for decades. The President has regretted that this long-term foreign policy direction, which has been held consensually by all Estonian governments and parliaments for decades as a silent agreement, has been brought into the electoral battle. I will join the Head of State's opinion. The current foreign policy line has always been that there must be greater cooperation between countries. This cooperation is not just an opportunity for our small country, but a necessity, even an inevitability. This is particularly true today, when the conflict between Russia and Ukraine escalates in hours. The desire for cooperation between the Member States of the European Union is particularly important here. I look with concern at the fact that the former Prime Minister's party, the currently opposition party, and the Reform Party, which is responsible for our country and people, have some distance from these principles, or rather, a clear position. The leader of the Reform Party, Kaja Kallas, has expressed his support for the migration framework and the former Foreign Minister Urmas Paet has done the same. But here in Parliament, the Reform Party is playing a completely different game, the opening of which was already played by the President of the Group Jürgen Ligi on 9 November, sowing contradictions and blowing arbitrary deliberate exaggerations, among other things, directly insulting the President of the Republic. This game, which may benefit one or two parties in the short term, is not good for Estonia. I am asking you today to forget about 3 March 2019 and to think, say and decide in a state-manly manner that is why the people elected us to the Riigikogu. Today we have the opportunity to show the people of Estonia that government responsibility does not mean fighting, political gambling, populism or intimidation. Once again, in this Chamber, we can show that the essence of politics is more important than ratings, that our current foreign policy direction and allied relations will continue in any internal political wind. One of the problems that characterise Estonia today is the lack of authority. If you've read the Internet chat room records, you know what I'm talking about. It is therefore important that the members of the Riigikogu, the people of the people, decisively state their position: this is the hour when an authoritative decision must be made for our country and our people.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U346	Andres Herkel on behalf of the Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U347	Thank you, Mr President. I'm asking for more time because there's a lot of motives! Ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U348	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U349	About five hours ago, the Foreign Minister here said that we should rely on hearing different opinions, not on fear. I found myself thinking that there were different opinions for me here in two directions, in fact. It seems to me that the Free Party Group is one of those who would like to represent a healthy side, but probably a minority. First of all, from this very strong attitude, which says that the migration framework breaks down our sovereignty and opens up the flow of refugees. The most drastic statement I've read in our mailbox is that if we join it, our constitution will cease to apply. In this era of social media, such statements are spreading very strongly and, in my opinion, they really are spreading fear. Especially in the light of the events of the Kerch Strait, I think this myth of a globalist conspiracy is rather water for the Kremlin mill. But there's another side here that I can't and I don't want to agree with. I am thinking of the political headphones that have also been put on the wording of international documents. It has gone so far that they will not even allow us in the Riigikogu to formulate our own statement as probably the majority of voters, people would like Estonian politicians to act. Mr Adams concluded his speech here with two motives, which I think are very precise. We certainly do not want Estonia to become a destination country for mass immigration, and we certainly do not want this migration pact to contribute to facilitating migration. And what prevents us from saying this clearly in our statement? I am also of the opinion that neither of these developments will really have drastic consequences for Estonia if we join it or not join it. I also advise the Minister of Justice to listen to the views and statements of Mart Laar, the Honorary Chair of the Fatherland. The Chancellor of Justice has made it very clear that there is an area covered by international agreements here. Yes, it may cause certain concerns and problems, but if we pay attention to it ourselves, the consequences will not be that bad. Now two of the proposals that should replace the entire text of the application. I must say that the proposal of the Fatherland is legally justified. This could be more detailed and better in some respects, but it is basically possible to support and argue such a wording if we do not go along with the migration framework. In my opinion, the EKRE proposal does not go that far and is more primitive in this respect. The Free Party is of the opinion that we are prepared to support this statement by the Riigikogu if our proposals are adequately accounted for more than was done in the Commission. I am thinking of the proposal that we actually have in common with the Reform Party that the government does not have to withdraw from responsibility, but must make this decision itself. But one important detail is in Amendment 4 and concerns the disagreement of the Riigikogu with the idealising statements of migration, which are not few in the text of the Migration Framework. I would remind you that this vote was actually tied in on the committee, and we would very much expect the Riigikogu to be prepared to incorporate such wording into the text of the statement. It is also quite important to propose No 9, which suggests that better migration management and reduction of illegal migration must not lead to an increase in regular migration. One question I want to touch on once more in the remaining time is the decision-making process in the government. Indeed, this problem has now arisen with regard to the issue of the migration framework, but I believe that this cramped search for consensus has, in fact, for a very long period, hindered the activities of the various forms of government. I would remind you that those governments, which in the 1990s were very effective in moving Estonia to a market economy, freedom and European social organisation, were not afraid of voting in the government. This is a recent habit of seeking consensus where it is not found. Finally, I agree with the Minister of Foreign Affairs and also with the representative of the initiators of the draft: probably no Estonian party in this Chamber supports mass immigration. The cultivation of such fear of support for mass immigration is evidently the beginning of a slogan by the EKRE that began to be distributed in its own time. It's kind of like pulling a match in a dangerous place. 'No mass immigration! It's like there are speakers in Estonia for it. I remember that there once was an electoral alliance in a small town in Estonia that went to the elections with a slogan 'The market must stay! " in a situation where no one intended to lose the market. It may have been an innocent joke, but this rapture of emotions about immigration is no longer a very innocent joke. This is where we come to the question of whether this is an information operation or not. I think there is in a way. And this operation is certainly much wider: it is not only aimed at Estonia; it is aimed at calling democratic society and world order into question at all. If you look at what started going on last night in the Kerch Strait, it seems to me that there really are elements of an information operation here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U350	On behalf of the Jürgen Ligi Reform Party Group. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U351	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I say first of all that we have reached a pretty good point with a subject where a good situation is not to be expected. The fact that we started pulling the emergency brake three weeks ago, since 6 November, has led us to a phase where the Committee on Foreign Affairs has come out of just the kind of paper that seemed necessary at the time. The warning was an academic in the field of ridicule there is nothing here. At the same time, emotions should not be ridiculed. What is very bad about the whole thing is once again indifference: how the issue of migration has been treated as a short-term and electoral emotion, as just an imaginary intimidation, as a false information campaign. In short, it's all put together. That is very regrettable. And one manifestation of this indifference is that they were hoping to bypass the Riigikogu. If it had not been for the Academician Mälksood, then everything would have been in the shadow of such a rabid noise and we would not have discovered this document in the Riigikogu. The indifference is also expressed by the fact that the rule-based world order, which is the goal of our foreign policy, has been used as a club, as if to accept any rules unconditionally. The emotions of no one who has seen what brings to society 50 years of unstoppable migration must not be underestimated. Neither must ridicule the emotions of those who know that for 50 years there has been a knowledge in society that this century is about to happen: something very bad is happening to the environment, and one of its sharpest outputs is ethnic conflicts and mass migration. So whoever is talking about mass migration cannot deny climate change and environmental degradation, these are not separable things. After all, he who has observed the progress of international law knows that for a few decades, power relations in the United Nations have shifted to the benefit of countries with which we do not share the common values very much. This is also one of the reasons why our great ally, the United States, has distanced itself from UN cooperation in many aspects. So this isn't just about Trump. When I am asked about the value decision on the basis of this knowledge, Mr Evgeni here called for it, it is that we must protect the liberal world. Most countries of the world are not liberal and the space of the liberal world narrows rather than expands, as horrible as it may be. How do you do that? As a Member of Parliament, I still do not know this for sure and see how it can be interpreted. I certainly do not want to be like this Central European country as a country, not as a country in person, whose style has become very evasive, sometimes xenophobic and even northern Korean in its ceremoniality, but who, in principle, has also taken up the edge of a civilization and fought these battles for a long time. Their emotions must not be underestimated either, but we must try to behave better. And the technical way of doing that is a government decision. He has negotiated the matter, he has legal expertise, and he is empowered to do so by the Constitution and the Law of Foreign Affairs. In any case, Parliament's standards do not allow the urgent procedure for a dense text of several dozen pages, which is so controversial, so voluminous and so alarming in the opinion of the academician. So let us leave this matter to the government, however, that is our firm demand. There are those, especially among the sots, who have said that, you see, Parliament does not have a position here. Very much so. We're handing out our hands to the socialists, and, imagine, somebody who's been showing a lot of recklessness through the ages about migration, not to say, supporting it. We think that what we started is about to get into the good finals with the upper-class agreement. We could give the government the very guidelines that anyone has written in this statement. I would like to highlight some that could reconcile the EKRE and could also rule out voting against the Fatherland if the proposal of the Reform Party goes in. It says that countries are sovereign in designing their migrations, it fits. It says that migration is not a human right It says what I said in 2015 that from the very beginning the root causes of unwanted migration must be eased, not said that it is not a concern and that people do not care. By the way, turning off Central Europe is the result of the underestimation of this problem in 2015. It is precisely the root causes that the European Union then began to address. Although the Union is not yet sufficiently effective in this area, it has, for example, reached a very good agreement with Turkey and is also looking for opportunities in North Africa. And, of course, countries must begin to welcome their citizens. These are very important theories that could ease tensions around this matter in society and make it clear that it is no longer a Soviet immigration, that we are not underestimating either environmental or migration problems, but that we are really dealing with them as much as possible. And we support this statement on condition that the Riigikogu does not approve of it. The Minister of Justice also said that such approval would be very bad, because it would link us to this agreement even more. The point that the agreement is not binding is not accepted by the academic, so neither am I. And in the long term he is politically in the ordinary law, let's not make him more binding. Let us leave this role to the government with the values we give to the government. Someone here told us that we got hit with a foreign policy club, that we're kind of changing it here. But please, the Centre Party is now at war in Crimea again with the state with which you have a party agreement. Put an end to this agreement with United Russia. We will change the continuity of Estonian foreign policy. Also replace your secretary-general, who is anti-NATO. Take several more steps back, which you have taken in the meantime, before you start telling others who have always stood for a consistent foreign policy and a rule-based world order. These rules cannot mean an agreement with United Russia. Let us not mention this, because the same country that repopulated us is populated and is currently conquering Ukraine. So I would like to ask you not to bring such an argument here! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U352	Eiki Nestor on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U353	I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U354	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U355	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! The whole point of this application was to clarify the position of the Riigikogu. And it is a pity that voting on the amendments in committee led to the result that this position is no longer as clear as it was initially written in. After all, nothing changed in substance. Those who have read our foreign communication law quickly understand that there are several ways to participate in such an event. Those who have dealt with the ratification of conventions on special topics here know what the preliminary work is, know that the government brings the decision here, know that the Riigikogu is debating and voting, know that the prior and subsequent signatures are. There is nothing like this about the migration framework. The UN has obviously called its Member States to know that no country in the world can cope with migration problems on its own. And it is up to us here to decide whether or not we are at the table where these issues are discussed. Now, the opinion has been expressed by a large number of experts. Interestingly, I cannot find any difference in their opinions as lawyers. First of all, they say this Marrakech meeting is not binding. Secondly, they say that there is no need to change anything in our laws. Thirdly, they all acknowledge that in the future, various issues can be discussed in relation to migration problems and our sovereignty. They are all unanimous on this, too. At this point, I would like to congratulate the Chancellor of Justice, whose position was the most clear and well-biased one. In the case of a number of other experts, unfortunately, there is a political nuance to mention all this, to see what happens. However, some people have also been intimidated by all of this. They believe that if no one from the Republic of Estonia goes to Marrakech, we will not have refugees. I wonder what it looks like. If we find a refugee who is definitely illegal in Estonia, will we explain that, good friend, now get out of here because we didn't go to Marrakech? So where's he going? But it's clear there's a reason for these fears. These fears may also come from a time that we no longer want to remember when a clear leader was believed to give orders, and all those who disagreed with these arrangements were enemies. That's where the fears come from. Good people who are frightened and gathered here today, please don't be afraid of refugees! Please don't be afraid of women and men because they're different! Please don't be afraid of another Estonian, and please don't be afraid of such things! There is no basis for these fears. And now the question arises as to whether we should become collectively stupid here in the Riigikogu in order to prove the stupidity based on these fears. I would like to speak here, contrary to the previous speaker, about Estonia's sustainable foreign policy, based on the knowledge that international agreed rules and allies are life insurance for our independence. What I want to say is thank you to the Centre Party, which has just shown by its behaviour on this subject that it is sustainable for them and the foreign policy on one line is important. And I'm critical of a completely different opinion. All right, our foreign policy has been consensual, and some have believed that there is probably nothing wrong with it, so it will continue, taking a little internal political point from here. This was particularly clear today from the questions raised, where the questioner had no interest in either the migration framework or the future. It was more of an interest to what comes from the budget of the government, what happens to the Prime Minister and everything else. This statement, in its original form, would still have left an obligation on the government, not on anyone else. So here I would like to ask whether our foreign policy is so consensual that internal political points can be taken from here. Honourable Riigikogu, I dare say one sentence from here. And I'm gonna say right now that anyone who doesn't agree can justify it later. I think whether or not we accept the application today is important. Those who vote in favour will understand that Estonia cannot go back to the time when we did not have friends or allies, when we did not have the opportunity to discuss or resolve issues, and who believe that our future is when we are in a democratic world with our thoughts and actions. And those who think that the future could be terrifying in the sense that the next Molotovs and Ribbentrops will agree, vote, apologize, against us in our future. The supporters of the common foreign policy line in Estonia since the early 1990s will probably vote in favour of this statement.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U356	I understand Jürgen Ligi has a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U357	Yeah, it is. Speaker Nestor offered everyone the opportunity to respond to his complaint, as if those who do not approve the statement of the Riigikogu in any form would underestimate allied relations. Is this opportunity available in the Rules of Procedure? Can we take the floor to disprove this charge?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U358	Unfortunately, the Rules of Procedure do not allow this to be done in the Chamber, perhaps you will do so outside the Chamber. On behalf of the Helir-Valdor Seeder Group of the Fatherland, please! Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U359	Ladies and gentlemen, Fatherland's party does not support joining the Migration Pact. Why? But because this pact will in future create ordinary international law and make political commitments. Furthermore, the ideological content of the Pact is to promote mass migration. In this regard, Estonia, as a small country, has painful experiences from the period of occupation and its legacy, as well as the very complex demographic situation with which we are still struggling. These reasons are also internationally understandable views as to why we prefer to avoid joining this pact and to hold sovereign decision-making on this issue firmly in Estonia's hands and to the role of legislator here at Toompea, not at the head offices of international organisations. Stories of damaging or turning your back on the Estonian foreign policy line are intimidation and unwillingness to open and discuss the migration pact. There is no point in talking about any European Union consensus or consensus on the migration pact, because it is not really there. A dozen European countries have already announced not joining the Migration Pact. Several recognised democracies outside the European Union have also announced that they will not join the migration pact, such as the US, Australia or Switzerland. Foreign policy will be consistent instead if we continue Estonia's conservative migration policy so far, and so will our foreign policy makers. We have consistently pursued such a policy since the early 1990s. Those who claim that by standing up for conservative migration and citizenship policies, we are now making an important turn in the respective policies. That's a lie! I want to talk about today's vote. There are a great many reasoned opinions which include arguments in favour and against the Pact. I probably do not have much to add here, so I guess political parties, political groups and ambassadors have made decisions in their heads. But I want to talk about voting. All those ambassadors and political groups who today vote in favour of deciding to join the Pact bouncing back into the hands of the Government of the Republic actually support accession to the Pact. It is well known what the relationship between forces in the Government of the Republic is: 2/3 of the government has declared that they support accession to the Pact and 1/3 do not support it. So this would actually be an attempt by Members to avoid a clear decision in this Chamber, an attempt to avoid responsibility and reject this decision to the Government of the Republic. The government has already discussed this issue several times and has not reached a consensus decision. I can assure you, I can't. The party Isamaa will vote against joining the Pact in this Chamber and we will do so in the government. We may be minority, but we will vote against there too. So, friends, know that those who support the rejection of this decision to the Government of the Republic also support the adoption of the Pact. The President of the Reform Party Group said here that, in this case, we will not declare the values that are here in the declarative part. This possibility can always be added by the Government of the Republic. For its part, the government can add a declaration that bears some value. So Parliament's blank decision, a declarative decision that does not shape a very clear pro or opposition point, does not bring any added value. I therefore call on all of you, honourable Members, to shape your position and press the green or red button, not to abstain or not to fail to express your position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U360	Mart Helme on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U361	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Few journalists-guests left on the balcony! It's almost time for the news. I will begin by rejecting the views, arguments, incriminations of some of the previous speakers. First of all, this statement that the vote against the statement rejects it in the government and is just like supporting this statement and giving a green light to sign the Marrakesh Treaty. That's not true. If we approve of it here, it's going to Marrakesh anyway. If we send it to the government, it will be possible for the Fatherland to show its backbone. And if the government breaks down on it, it's gonna explode. Then comes the government, which is either unanimous in favour or unanimous in opposition, a clear position, but not the way it is now. Secondly, the first speaker who spoke on behalf of the Centre Party Group incriminating us as if we had approved and initiated violence at the demonstration. You see, friends, if one of the known scandalists doesn't respond to the demands of the organizers, rips off the microphone, refuses to give it to the organiser and security staff, then the proverb 'Who doesn't want to listen, it has to be felt. " And he knew that he was taken away from him and was driven away. The fact that he fell on it... It happens, you know. Look at these videos. Guys, look at these videos. By the way, I also wrote an article about Delfi, where I recall the 1930s when the Social Democrats were the ones who went out to pick a fight at the brave events, and who had the gangs of whackers with them. Is it the same now? And now will it also end because at one point there will be a silent age, because the power we have now fears for its future? This thing is a lot sharper than you guys can imagine. The thousand people who were in front of the house today are a fraction compared to those who are actually dissatisfied throughout Estonia. You should understand that because the Marrakesh Treaty has upset people. And now to the bottom line, why did I even speak? We have been so lied to here in the Riigikogu Hall today that if the air gets dirty, we'll be in the dark right now. Let us begin by saying that this pact is not binding. Hey, guys, who do you think you're an idiot? You think we're all illiterate here and we don't know any foreign languages. We are literate and we know foreign languages, even the English text we fully understand. We are also able to read texts in other official UN working languages. So don't come here and tell us crap. I'm sorry I use that word! That it is not binding. And it is a treaty, it is not a migration framework. For God's sake, the sotid-led Ministry of Foreign Affairs has done some fifth-grade student-level translation and is lying to the public to treat him with euphemisms. Not only is this agreement essentially accompanied by a guide, an implementing act which clearly states that the accession countries must have implemented the letter in the Migration Pact by 2030. If you want to see it, open up New News, the news portal of our party, and read the news from black and white a few days ago. We have taken it from the relevant UN documents. Read it! And if you don't believe it, take it back from the official UN documents. Now, the pact itself. The Pact provides, among other things, a very clear mentality check, which must be aimed at migration and racism, of all kinds...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U362	I should thank you now...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U363	More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U364	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U365	It is for the purpose of establishing a control of legislation and mentality against such things. It's just like nothing, but it's what we're protesting against. We're protesting someone trying to muzzle someone. Do you, the people on my left, understand that there are just over a million Estonians and 7.5 billion people in the world? There are already over a billion people in Africa. Do you think that we here can accommodate all those in need, place them? I can't. And we don't have to, because we have so many troubles here. We have people with disabilities, we have poor people, we have single mothers, we have everything. Our people have gone to earn sausage slices as Finnish Kalevipoegs. We would like these people to come to ease our labour drought, not highly educated IT specialists from somewhere in the African jungle. We don't need these people here on a massive scale. Who's talking about intimidation? Fear is spoken of by all those who want to push this pact through. What kind of intimidation is it that we lose our allies? Is Poland not our ally? Is the United States not our ally? Is Australia not a democratic, liberal, democratic state? Yes, it is. Why are you lying again? Why are you cheating and scaring people? These countries are our allies and are not going anywhere. Similarly, Germany or France will not disappear from our allies if we do not tell this pact. That's intimidation. Exactly as well, intimidation is the story that where these refugees are, from 2015 onwards, the EKRE scares people with refugees, but they do not exist. Yes, friends. Tens of thousands of Ukrainians who have come to Estonia are also refugees. Those thousands of students, a large proportion of whom do not qualify as students, I can confirm from my experience, and one of them, by the way, went hand-to-hand with their faculty last week, are also refugees. They're immigrants, too. They, too, are the people that we do not really need here, who are burdening our social welfare system and who are causing problems. So, guys, first stop your disgusting, lying, left-liberal propaganda, and then we'll talk about an open, balanced discussion that you're actually pushing down with lies all the time, pushing into another channel, and...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U366	Time's up.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U367	...which you're trying to shift away from, as we can see from today's provocation.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U368	Time's up.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U369	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U370	The Home and Rules of Procedure Act gives the Group of the Social Democratic Party the right to object. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U371	Thank you. Mart Helme's attempt to construct a parallel reality was, of course, impressive. Especially when it was clear to everyone else that the video shot was taken that Indrek Tarand was knocked down this morning, he said he fell. In designing his parallel reality, Mart Helme evidently failed to note that he fell so unhappyly that he fell on some man's leg several times and was injured. I think that inciting violence and justifying it in a political debate is absolutely inappropriate in a democratic country and worse than the parliamentary party does.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U372	Our Rules of Procedure do not provide for a debate, an opposition to an opposition. If someone is called in the course of the negotiations, he shall have the right to object. Mart Helm does not have the right to object. Dear Riigikogu, we are going to the examination of the amendments. The first amendment has been tabled by the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, the Commission has disregarded. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U373	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. I ask you to vote on it, and before the vote, I ask you to take a ten-minute break. Before the vote, please also carry out a presence check.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U374	Break until 17.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U375	Dear Riigikogu, the break taken by the Conservative People's Party is over. They also have a desire to carry out a presence check, but Arto Asa has a procedural question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U376	Thank you. Normally, only members of the Riigikogu are present during the vote in the Riigikogu Chamber. We notice there's Mailis Reps in the hall. As far as we know, the education issues of the Riigikogu are not currently being discussed and it seems that he has been brought here to monitor the vote of members of his group. We would like to be sure that the members of the Centre Party are free to vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U377	To explain so much, for example, a member of the Government of the Republic has the right to take the floor in the negotiations. It is enough that he is a member of the Government of the Republic. So it's kind of weird to say listen to the balcony and come down. Where they have to sit is a question of their own. Jevgeni Ossinovski, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U378	To explain to a good colleague that according to § 58 of the Riigikogu Home and Working Procedures Act, members of the Government of the Republic have the right to be present in the Chamber of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U379	And now Taavi wants to know something about Clothes. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U380	There is no doubt that the members of the Government of the Republic have the right to be in this Chamber. Members of the Government of the Republic also have the right to be present at their main workplace, where they are certainly missed. But the question is very simple: can we be sure that the members of the Central Party Group will not be influenced to vote exactly as a particular member of the government wishes? Can we be sure that they are free to make their decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U381	This question is answered by Kersti Sarapuu, Chairman of the Centre Party Group. Please! [[Voice from the hall and laughter. The manager's ringing the bell.]] Honourable Riigikogu, prior to the vote was asked to carry out a verification of presence. Incoming check, please! Currently, 88 members of the Riigikogu are present at the additional session of the Riigikogu. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 1, tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, which was rejected by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. There were 19 members of the Riigikogu in favour of Amendment 1, 76 against, with one abstention. [[Let's hear it.]] The amendment was not supported. Amendment 2 is tabled by the Isamaa Group and the Commission has not taken account of it. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U382	Looks like Seeder wants to ask the same thing. I ask you to vote on it, and before the vote, I ask you to take a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U383	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U384	Thank you. I had the same desire: to vote, but without a break.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U385	Break ends at 5:25.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U386	Honourable Riigikogu! I'm gonna... Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U387	Thank you, I'm asking you to do a presence check.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U388	Incoming check, please! 95 members of the Riigikogu registered as present. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 2, tabled by the Isamaa Group, which was rejected by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. Amendment 2 was voted in favour of 24 and 71 members of the Riigikogu were against, with no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. The third amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia; the lead committee has failed. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U389	Thank you. I'm asking you to vote on it, and before this ten-minute break!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U390	Break until 5:37.40.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U391	Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 3, tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, which has been disregarded by the leading committee. Please take a stand and vote. The third amendment was voted in favour of 19 and there were 75 members of the Riigikogu against, with no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. The fourth amendment was tabled by the Free Party Group; the commission has not taken account of it. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U392	Thank you, Mr President. In the lead committee, the votes were tied, and we are certainly asking for it to be voted and supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U393	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U394	I'm asking for a ten-minute break!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U395	Break ends at 5.49 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U396	Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 4, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party, which has been disregarded by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. The amendment was for 16 and 78 members of the Riigikogu were against, with no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 5 is tabled by the Estonian Free Party Group and has been fully taken into account. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U397	Thank you. I'm asking you to vote on it, and before this ten-minute break!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U398	Break. We'll proceed at 6:00.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U399	Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 5 tabled by the Free Party Group, which has been fully taken into account by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. There were 86 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the fifth amendment, no respondents or abstentions. The proposal was supported. Amendment 6 is tabled by the Estonian Free Party Group, fully taken into account. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U400	Thank you. I'm asking you to vote on it, and before this ten-minute break!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U401	We'll proceed at 19.11.41.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U402	Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 6, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party, which has been fully taken into account by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. There were 87 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal, one against and no abstentions. The proposal was supported. Amendment 7 is tabled by the Estonian Reform Party Group; the Commission has taken full account of it. Amendment 8 is tabled by the Group of the Free Party; the commission has not taken account of it. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U403	Thank you, Mr President. We are asking for this proposal to be voted on and supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U404	Got it. Honourable Riigikogu, I am now forced to give you a small explanation so that questions will not arise later. Amendments 8, 9 and 10 are on the same paragraph: the eighth is a new text, the ninth is a text that wants to delete the old text, and the tenth, which has been supported, is proposed to change one word in the old text. These are votes, after which this amendment will pass, which will receive the most favourable vote in the case of support. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on proposal No 8, tabled by the Free Party Group, by the commission of... Helir-Valdor Seeder, procedural question. No, it's not. I shall put to the vote Amendment No 8, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party, which has been disregarded by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. The eighth amendment was supported by 23 and 70 members of the Riigikogu, with no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 9 is tabled by the Group of the Free Party; the commission has not taken account of it. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U405	Mr President, these proposals are in such a gravity that the further on, the weaker it will get. I am sorry that the previous one did not work, but I will put the ninth vote to the vote and please support it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U406	Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 9, tabled by the Group of the Free Party, which has been disregarded by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. The ninth amendment was for 16 and 71 members of the Riigikogu, 1 abstention. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 10 is tabled by the Free Party Group, fully taken into account. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U407	Thank you. I'm asking you to vote on it, and before this ten-minute break!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U408	Intermission until 6:26.11 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U409	There were 87 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the tenth amendment, no respondents or abstentions. The proposal was supported. The 11th amendment was tabled by the Free Party Group, which was taken into account in substance. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U410	Thank you. I ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U411	Honourable Riigikogu, I would also like to draw your attention here to the fact that Amendments 11 and 12 are dealt with in accordance with § 106 (4) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act: one is essentially and the other is fully taken into account. Finally, this amendment will be written, which will receive more votes in favour if it is supported. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 11, tabled by the Group of the Free Party, which has been taken into account in substance by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. 38 members of the Riigikogu were in favour and 52 against, with one abstention. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 12 is tabled by the Group of the Reform Party, fully taken into account. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U412	I ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U413	Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 12 tabled by the Group of the Reform Party, which has been fully taken into account by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. 43 members of the Riigikogu are in favour and against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 13 is tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the commission has taken the substance into account. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U414	I am also asking for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U415	Honourable Riigikogu, also Amendments 13 and 14 are dealt with... Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U416	Before this vote, I ask for two minutes of recess.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U417	Break two minutes, proceed at 6:31.45.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U418	I shall put to the vote Amendment 13 tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, which has been taken into account in substance by the Commission. Please take a stand and vote. No one was in favour of this amendment, 95 members of the Riigikogu opposed, and there were no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 14 has been tabled by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, fully taken into account. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U419	Thank you. I ask for this amendment to be voted on and we expect the same consensus in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-26_U420	Thank you. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 14, tabled by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and, of course, fully respected. Please take a stand and vote. No one was in favour of this proposal, 94 were opposed, and there were no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. We have examined the amendments. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the Riigikogu statement on the draft 'UN Global Migration Framework'. Please take a stand and vote. There were 41 and 27 members of the Riigikogu in favour of receiving the application, with no abstentions. The statement has been accepted. The additional sitting is closed. Closure of the sitting at 6.34 p.m.
