ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U2	Our session today begins with the taking of an oath by a member of the Supreme Court, Heiki Lood. Please, Heiki Loot!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U3	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Riigikogu! I pledge to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. I pledge to exercise justice according to my conscience in accordance with the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Estonia. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U4	The Tuesday session of the 9th working week of the VIIIth plenary session will continue with the referral of drafts and enquiries. Please, Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U5	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! As we are going to have a very important item on the rural agenda today, the Free Party Group wants to give the right tone here with one initiative. As we know, we have a very big socio-economic difference between Tallinn or Tallinn region and the rest of Estonia. In this context, we have one draft decision of the Riigikogu to pass on, namely 'Proposaling the Government of the Republic to use euro grants more efficiently and regionally balanced'. There's been a lot of public talk about this. The Riigikogu has not taken a driving role here, but we believe that the Government of the Republic has the power to request a derogation from Brussels from the European Union for the use of Structural Funds money. To this end, it must be recognised that there are two different stages of development in Estonia: Tallinn and its surroundings and the rest of Estonia; to apply for differentiation based on the classification of the territorial units of Eurostat; and to change Estonia's starting points for the European Union 2021. for the negotiation of the 2010 budget period. This would certainly significantly improve the situation both in terms of employment and other development in rural areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U6	On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted one draft decision. The Management Board of the Riigikogu behaves in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, presence check, please! 80 delegates will attend the meeting.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U7	Today's first item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Act on arms and state fees (654 SE) initiated by the National Defence Committee. Do the groups want to start negotiations? That's not what you want. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on draft 654. Is the hall ready to vote? Thank you! I am voting on the draft law amending the arms law and the state fee law initiated by the National Defence Committee. Please take a stand and vote. 73 delegates voted in favour, 2 against and 4 abstentions. The draft Act amending the Weapons Act and the State Fees Act (654 SE) initiated by the National Defence Committee has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U8	Today's second item is the debate on the 'Probability of Life in a Land', which is of crucial importance. To those who observe the hearing electronically, the word 'earth' is written in a small letter. In short, how we will discuss this point. The rapporteur is Aivar Kokk, Chairman of the Rural Affairs Committee. Then comes the representative of the organisers of the "Main challenges and policy recommendations in the development of local government and regional level," the lecturer of the administration of the Tallinn University Institute of Social Sciences Sulev Lääne. The third waitress is the entrepreneur and promoter of rural life, the manager of Nopri farm Tiit Niilo. So much more that each member of the Riigikogu can ask up to two questions to the rapporteurs. After the presentations and answers to the questions, we open negotiations. And, as is often the case, there will be representatives of the political groups speaking first. At the end of the discussion, the Riigikogu will not take a decision. The Committee on Rural Affairs proposes to extend the session until the agenda item is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. We will come back to this decision a little later, because history has shown that there may be other statements. So, let's begin! For a presentation, please address Aivar Koka, Chairman of the Committee on Rural Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U9	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The well-being of the Estonian people depends on each of us who live and work on this small plot of land. It is very common to think that life in rural areas is not possible because there are not enough jobs, and that is why the country is draining people. In fact, there is much exactly the opposite trend...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U10	I'm sorry, Mr. Waitress! We've got some hiccups in the feed. I'll take the manager's break three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U11	Ladies and gentlemen, As you've noticed, it took a little longer to fix the technical glitch. But now all the transmissions have been restored, and we can continue the debate on the crucial national question of 'the possibility of life on land in the era of electronics'. I would like to remind you that all the speeches will be 20 minutes, and that after the round of questions and answers will also be followed by 20 minutes. It's rare that the first waitress can start twice, but maybe that's why he'll remember more. Please, Aivar Chef!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U12	Thank you. The well-being of the Estonian people depends on each of us who live and work on this small piece of land. It is very common to think that life in rural areas is not possible because there are not enough jobs, and that is why the country is draining people. In fact, there is much of the opposite trend: more and more people move to the country who take their jobs from the city and move to the country because rural areas offer a better environment. This environment is good both for adults to link work and private life and for children to grow. Is life on earth possible even if no one else offers a job? In fact, we can create a job ourselves. We don't have to wait for someone else to come and offer me work and bread. It is not the country that can keep the rural life alive, but we ourselves, who know that in today's world of advanced information technology, it no longer matters whether you live in the countryside or in the city. You can create a job and support yourself wherever you want. However, recent trends and changes in the implementation of administrative reform have signalled that rural development needs systematic public support and attention. This concerns employment, education and logistics, as well as better access to public services and better meeting social needs. We must create a uniform working and living environment for people living in rural areas. More active action is needed in rural areas, more active action is needed to diversify the rural economy and the rural environment in order to provide, alongside agriculture, alternative employment opportunities based on local resources and potential. It is a very common myth that life in the periphery is not possible, but I believe that all of you, good members of the Riigikogu, have been driving around Estonia. And if you look at what's going on in the country right now, I don't think there's been such active activity and life for maybe long years. And when we talk about Estonia's regions and ways of life, I think it is the way of life in our different regions that keeps life on the ground. It is very active in the framework of the Leader programme and the movement of the Home Office. I am pleased to note that different peoples and cultures are interlinked and can organise different events together, see Estonia as a united, adorable country and develop it. We often say that this or the other is not possible. We don't have to wait for anyone else to do anything. We often talk about our big events, whether they are women's dances in Jõgeva County or men's dances in Rakvere, where there are as many people on the stadium lawn as national dances and stands full of people. It just takes those sparkling people who want to haul. There are always those who come with us. The joy of gathering together is what will provide energy for the next few days. What matters is that next generations will come along with our age and parents. And when different generations do something together, that's what leads to life on earth. There's no need to cry and complain. The joy of working together is exactly what leads our lives forward. The joy of self - making is the greatest joy. Sometimes it discusses how it is possible to live in the countryside. Often you just need to find the right way to find what seems to you most important what you want to do. And we really have that opportunity everywhere, whether you live in a big city, a small town, a village, or a village. Looking at the good people who are carrying culture now, I am pleased to see that the following major cultural events are approaching. Male choirs sing songs. There is a male choir from Jõgevamaa where the average age of the singers is 68. But they've been together for decades, they've been together, and the joy of getting together is exactly what's going on in the country. Where do our young and strong peaks come from, our Olympic winners? Most of them are from the country. Another example is one of Väino Treiman, a stubborn man who has been acting systematically and consistently for years in a small school where children are currently well under 100, trying to restore the traditions of speed skating in Estonia. And when you look at the last Olympic Games, Estonia's best results were just in speed skating. After all, we all remember the results of Saskia Algalu and Marten Liv. It is important that we see how necessary our rear is. It is the rural area that helps to keep Estonia. And when you look around, we see how many events there are in Estonia through summer, autumn, winter and spring, when the heavy car flows are driving them. Believe me, the outcome of any such event is often that someone discovers a beautiful place. First they find it, then they go to see it three or four times, because the idea is that it's where you can build a home where you can raise your children. Education is very important to be able to live in the countryside. As parents, we all want our children to get the best education. At this point, I would certainly like to commend the fact that the country has made a firm decision a few years ago to establish state secondary schools. While children often traveled from the country to the city to receive upper secondary school education, there is now a level playing field in all counties for good upper secondary school education. It is important that children receive early childhood education and primary education as close to home as possible, but that they travel 20 km or 30 km to get upper secondary school education is not crazy at all. Everyone must have equal opportunities. The opportunities and learning environment of vocational schools are also improving every year. I'm not talking about good teachers. I'm sure it's one hell of a trump card that gives us a chance to live in the country. I think fast connections and good roads are very important. Last time we made sure that 10% of the fuel excise would go on local roads. I'm looking at all of you who are here for the first cast, who's already the third-fourth-fiveth cast. Do you remember that every time we have had one promise: we are building a four-line road from Tallinn to Tartu, from Tallinn to Narva, from Tallinn to Pärnu? But unfortunately, they are still not ready. I think it's time we boldly say we take a little loan every year. Within ten years, at least 200 million loans should be made every year, and then our roads would be as much as roads and rail networks would be in other parts of Europe. We shouldn't listen to the Road Administration saying we need to calm down traffic. No, we don't have to calm down traffic, we have to ensure that traffic is smooth and secure. I remember 2004 when I became the governor of Jõgeva. I then started to ring the bell so that there would be railbuses, or modern trains, to come to Estonia. It did not take much time, only ten years, when in July 2013 electric trains started to run, in 2014 diesel trains. But nobody believed in December 2013, when we made a bet, that trains were crowded at the beginning of January and we needed more trains. And that's what happened! However, we have not reached the point of buying new trains. The railway infrastructure needs to be improved so that trains can be driven much faster and that the system works as it was intended for small trains to bring passengers forward on high-speed trains. You can't stop a high-speed train in every place, but in certain places. The situation has been that if the Committee on Economic Affairs or Rural Affairs discusses whether one high-speed train should be staying in Tabivere and makes a unanimous decision that it should, it will be a year, but nothing has happened. The authorities in our country are much harder than we are. They can't, they don't want to decide to do a pilot project and try out if it really is that if this train stopped, ten or fifteen people from Tabivere would go on it every time. Sometimes it really seems that the Riigikogu can discuss anything, officials still do their job as they wish. We have free public transport in most counties this summer. We certainly have a world-class long-distance network and long-distance buses. In the spring we discussed all public transport, including bus and coach transport, in our committee. Behind the table were all parties up to the Road Administration. And we agreed that we would create a demand-stop option. The papers reported it, and on Midsummer, the Road Administration wrote about it as a positive solution. But now, if you tell me that, for example, Adavere, there are people going on a long-distance bus every day at a certain time of the day, then somehow the Road Administration is unable to agree with the carriers. Although at our table all carriers agreed that they are ready to make up to three stops on the Tallinn Tartu route. This shows that decisions are made somewhere, promises are made, but those promises are not actually fulfilled. We are also talking about the Estonian Post, or Omniva. Post offices will be shut down, and people will not be able to create jobs there. That's another bad example. A bad example in the sense that an entrepreneur cannot think a little further about what other services he could offer. And next door, I'd say, the best example of last year is Coop. I don't want to start promoting any companies here, but yes, banks close their offices, even the ATM was taken away from the Riigikogu, post offices are shutting down their offices. At the same time, one private company can solve many problems. Coop has managed to create a system for offering banking services in all shops, and these shops also offer postal services. Yeah, well, our policy's had some shit going on here. I'm looking at Urmas right now. The situation is critical in his municipality of residence, for some shops are being closed down. Border trade has done its job, and the additional services offered in shops no longer ensure that shopping is economically viable. This is definitely where we should look in the mirror. And also those public enterprises that we have created should look more closely at what services can still be offered, so as not to say that I am not paying for it. Surely we cannot imagine life on land without agriculture. Estonian agriculture and farmers are the top of Europe, whether we are talking about the technology that plows, sows and reaps in the field, or the IT solutions that are used both on the tractor and on the home computer. At any time, the owner can see where his tractor works. A program is put on the tractor that calculates how much fertilizer, seed or plant protection products the land needs. I will take my hat off in front of all the farmers who have kept Estonia beautiful. Our dairy herd is the second of its average milk yield in Europe. In 25 years, our farmers have been able to create such herds of milk that we can be proud. Our forests are beautiful, and in Estonia, forest land has grown almost half as much in the last century as in the past, and we have over 52% of the area of the forest. We have pure nature, and we could promote that much more. We have organic farming, we have organic forests. And if half of Estonia has forests, we have organic land for most of the land! I don't know anyone who knows anyone who goes to the woods to fertilize. In plant production, fertilizer is used, but not in forest development. Fisheries is certainly an important industry in Estonia, especially coastal fisheries. There are many concerns and joys in this sector. One thing is, you live on the lake, but you can't go on that lake. During the winter, large car flows from Latvia and Lithuania come to Peipsi. When you come to Peipsi, you will see that there are as many fishers as the eye can see. At the same time, the opportunities of local people are very limited. Perhaps because of someone's stubbornness or political unwillingness, a strange situation has arisen at Peipsi. It seems that the fish are caught before they can be caught. Sometimes, when official fishing begins, in two days, perhaps quotas will be full, which is theoretically impossible. It is practically possible, however, that fish can be caught here and there, but it can be recorded in a third place. Finland went to such a system three years ago that if you have a fishing quota, you will catch while you are the most profitable: if the fish is the highest and if the market price is the best. It's not like we're gonna see who's going faster before the quota's full. And all the others leave their fish where this and the other. This is the way to catch the fish that is available at that moment, that big or that small. That's how a lot of money disappears. Entrepreneurship is the most important thing in terms of living in the countryside. A strong and stable economy is the basis for a good living environment and a high standard of living. A strong economy stands for strong companies that create high added value and pay taxes. Designing a business-friendly environment is one of the most important roles of the state, which must be dealt with on a continuous basis, a role whose successful completion will benefit the entire Estonian economy.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U13	Honourable waitress! It's been 20 minutes for the report. However, we have seen this before that it is certainly possible to direct events so that the rest of these thoughts can be passed on. Andres Herkel, first question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U14	Thank you. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! I believe that you followed at the beginning of the sitting when I handed over a draft decision on behalf of the Free Party, the content of which is to request a derogation from the European Union so that we can apply for more money from the Structural Funds to the less developed regions, which are the majority of our territory in Estonia. The wealth and development are concentrated around the capital. Has the Committee on Rural Affairs also taken the trouble to discuss this issue, or is it planned to discuss it? And do you have any information to give us about why the Government of the Republic has failed to apply for such an exception over the years?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U15	Thank you for a good question. I have to admit, it's part of the story I didn't tell you. I was talking a little too much about the slides. I think this is an important issue and it has actually been discussed. This has also been discussed during previous governments, and I fully agree with you that there should be a difference. How can this distinction be created, which tax base options are used, it is a question of its own. Our aim should be to turn municipalities into real drivers of local and regional development. You could expect that from the local governments. I have offered the idea that most municipalities will receive support from the Equalisation Fund and will have no need to engage in business, because if profits, income increases, then the Equalisation Fund will decrease. A situation could be created where the Equalisation Fund is left stable for a period of time, and any revenue that the Municipality receives remains available to it. Then there is more interest in doing business. And the other part of this distinction is that I certainly would not agree that social tax will be reduced for the company. In Estonia, pensions and health insurance are those where cash flow is in deficit at all times and not in surplus, but it is certainly possible to make a distinction through income taxes or electricity excise duties, fuel excise duties, in any way, so that there are more favourable opportunities in certain areas for an entrepreneur to set up his own business there. And in that case, people will move there because the job is very important for everyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U16	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U17	Thank you very much, manager. Dear colleague Aivar! Although agriculture employs around 5% of rural people, rural areas are still very closely linked to agriculture and farming at all. And that is why my question concerns pesticides. They are used not only in agriculture, but also in roads, parks, sports grounds, but also in forests, in many places. A study carried out a few years ago shows that the sale of plant protection products is growing. However, we know that even the DDT residues used 50 years ago are still very high in soil, 40% of the food samples taken show that at least one plant protection product has been used. What has the Commission done to reduce the use of pesticides? And another big question: why is there no soil law in Estonia that exists in very many countries?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U18	Thank you for your very good questions. Now, if I forget a few questions, I'm sorry. But I'm gonna start with the plant protection products that I think you have the most on your heart. I reassure you: when we look at our neighbours Finland and Sweden, we see that we use much less plant protection products. And there is a very simple reason for this: we are not so rich that we can use so many plant protection products. Yes, the use of plant protection products is generally increasing. If plants are affected by a disease, there are two ways: either we save the plants and we can eat after something or we can save them. At the same time, Estonia will certainly switch more and more to organic farming. If we look at the numbers, we see that this proportion is going to increase a lot every year. When paying subsidies for the last year, it became clear that there are already many more hectares in organic farming, and we found extra money to support organic farming. I believe that the future of Estonian agriculture is certainly organic farming, because in very many richer countries and also in China, where there is a very large market, the price of organic food is quite different. There is sufficient capacity to produce organic production in Estonia so that it can also be sold on foreign markets. It is possible to conclude good contracts. I believe that organic production will continue to grow and, in this respect, the use of plant protection products will definitely decrease.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U19	Please, Siret Eagle-Repinski!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U20	Thank you, good chairman of the meeting. Good waitress! You mentioned in your report that families are now moving back to the country. However, when we look at the wider picture, it is very clear that the main tendency is not that young families move to the country, but that they either move to the surrounding area of Tartu or to Tallinn. How do you think we can achieve that yet young families come to live more in the country and want to have children there?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U21	Thank you. I'll invite you to Kasepää to Peipsi. When I first admitted to it in 2004 as a county elder, the shame! I got here, then there were old tired houses. If we drive today along this famous 7 km street, we can see that most houses have been renovated or renovated. Families of young people aged 30 to 40 have settled there. I think one of the reasons is that at some point in the county, we decided that this neighborhood needed help to catch up with the rest of the area. We started with cultural events. For example, the Kalevipoeg skate marathon in this picture brought a thousand people on ice, which seemed crazy to everyone. None of us believed that there were so many skates in Estonia, as the last major skating was over decades. In fact, local governments and the state can support development if there are sparkling people in the country who want to do something about it. I have to admit, I went to China and I saw a singing stage on the lake. It seemed like there were events all along. We made a singing stage on the side of the lake in Kasepää, and now it's probably the most famous place for concerts in the summer. Young people came to carry it, and now people are coming to the Kalevipoeg Fish Festival, for example. They'll see the area that buys the house that comes home. The time when people worked in Finland and earned a lot of money is coming to an end. Now they come and bring the money back home. Fortunately, most of our people don't want to live far away for long. They still want to come back to their roots.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U22	Andres Metsoja.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U23	Good chairman of the sitting! Dear waitress, Electricity, the internet and roads are often a rural birth certificate. We have been working hard on the Internet in this Parliament, and the coalition has supported it. We have carried out the task of the government and have made many legislative changes, I hope that this will work out. But in the area of roads, I think there is a relatively difficult situation. Both local roads and the country's main and supporting roads need much more funding than they have so far. And it is precisely the construction of the main roads that is often being raised, which I think is a very serious mistake. You also mentioned that this is actually crucial for the development of entrepreneurship. We want to read people and drive cars. Has the Committee on Rural Affairs dealt with this issue and, if so, how?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U24	Thank you, Andres, for a good question. The three stars that bring together the EIT - electricity, the internet, road infrastructure - are very important, as you and I are working together. Yes, the Committee on Rural Affairs has dealt with this and especially with the road sector. I don't think there's been a quarter to go by if the Road Administration hasn't been at our desk so we can discuss these issues. As I mentioned in my report, one thing must be forgotten is this talk about a balanced budget. I've never, I have to admit, understood. If you look in this hall, I'd like to ask if your children, who are already adults, have taken a loan to buy a car or a house or an apartment. It's been done all over Europe, go anywhere. We're talking Spain and Portugal about how bad it is. Portugal had a really difficult time for three years. They put all their money in the roads, built such magnificent bridges that they couldn't see the other end, but now it's revived the economy. At the end of the previous term, for some reason, it was decided to decouple the financing of roads from excise duties on fuel. 75% of excise duties on fuel should go directly to roads, plus European subsidies. Then we might have solved a lot of problems. In the previous composition, instead of 5%, we were able to channel 10% of the amount of excise duty to the municipalities, but it should reach 15% so that the municipalities could fulfil their role. On the other hand, surely the state should take a peaceful loan. We cannot be Pope's pope, because we are a country with a 9% loan burden and the European average is 80+%. We could borrow EUR 200 million every year and put it on the road network. There must be no more for the simple reason that then road construction prices should rise to the ceiling. It has also been analysed with the Road Administration and found that 200 million is an amount that would keep construction prices stable, but we would be able to bring the entire road network, both roads and the rail network to the level that it is in the rest of the world, over a period of ten years.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U25	Eev Paasmäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U26	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! We know more about Ida-Virumaa than about a strong industrial area with industrial companies and large cities. But in Ida-Virumaa there is also a very nicely developed rural area. People develop entrepreneurship, process agricultural products, grow cereals and animals. When we recently met farmers, it was the farmers who were raising the issue of cereals on farmland, which is on top of former and present mines. In other words, this grained land is empty. They pointed out that especially when there is a drought, it is difficult for them to produce. In the Committee on Rural Affairs, have you discussed precisely the problems of this target group, how to support them?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U27	Thank you for a very good question. Our committee discussed the issue of drought in two sessions in August and also in September. And clearly, in a country with certain soils, the problems in times of drought are much greater than in other regions. In Estonia, there were very different problems in different regions this year. There were places where there wasn't much drought, there was plenty of rain. Ida-Virumaa was one of those counties where drought was larger than on average in Estonia. Of course, we also discussed how to support these farmers. On the one hand, the maximum amount of national support, as well as the European Union, has been distributed to farmers, or in December, the last amounts will be distributed. This is certainly the step that the Coalition has taken to make the most of what has been done. But I'm sure the whole business is a risk. I always say that farms have one owner up there but the owners on the ground. It is he who decides whether he gives rain or does not give rain, whether he gives sunshine or not. I'm sure every farmer says that one of the shareholders is the old god himself, and he holds the largest stock package. And sometimes he makes stupid decisions and doesn't let anything grow in a field. However, we have not been in the Commission's mind that there will be more money on the plane. Risks must be mitigated and dealt with for many years. Unfortunately, a solution has still not been found, but it is now clear that next year a solution will be found that farmers will be able to secure their harvest. This, in my opinion, is one sure way to mitigate the risks. Unfortunately, there have been no insurance companies in Estonia that have wished to put this service in their portfolio, but the negotiations are now in the final stages. I hope that next year there will be at least one insurance company on the Estonian market to deal with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U28	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U29	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good Aivar! I do not agree with your argument that going further for the use of some services is not a problem. Yes, it is because it is much more expensive for a rural person than for a person living in a city, even because there must be several cars in the household: for a mother and father, who may also have to drag children into schools and hobby groups. Another problem is high excise duties on fuel, and this burden is largely borne by rural people. Under the leadership of the IRL Group, a road user tax was put on top, which penalises the entrepreneurial person in particular. Why has the government coalition still not thought about granting incentives to people living in the countryside when it comes to excise policy, so that they would also have access to services?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U30	Thank you. I'm going to have to go through my memory now. I don't think I've said that it's easy to get the services when you go somewhere. I didn't say that in my report. On the contrary! I was talking about creating free public transport. I totally agree with you that the real situation is that where the bus is driving tight, maybe the troubles are a little bit smaller, but in most places the bus doesn't drive. The further you live from the city, the more important it is that you have a car at home that you can get from one place to another. And fuel excise really does affect it a lot. I know that you're always in the hall during all the discussions, and I'm sure you heard that the last time the Minister of Finance was in the remote and spoke about last year's state budget, he, like me, confirmed that our wish was to bring back excise duties. Just co-operation partners from the coalition weren't ready for that yet.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U31	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U32	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, We all know that life is possible both in the country and in the city, when the roads are in order and pass every time of the year. For an entrepreneur, it is as important as breathing for a person. For five and a half months now, however, the entrepreneurs of Hiiumaa have to accept the municipality's decision that larger vehicles, including tractors, may not travel on local roads without special authorisation. The total length of these roads is 470 kilometres. As a representative of the Coalition Party, how do you assess the government's excise policy, which directs much-needed excise money to our southern neighbours, so that we cannot contribute to local roads that are crucial for business to remain on land?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U33	Thank you, Urve, for a very good question. I should throw the stone in your cabbage garden first and then shake the ashes on my head. It all started in 2014; I hope that I will not make a mistake in the year when the road money was untied from the fuel excise duty. Then you were in the government, and we protested here. But if the municipality makes a decision, it will. It is a decision of the municipality; the state cannot say 'no' or 'yes' to that. I can say one thing for my protection. In the last term, I was the one who fought for 10% of excise duties on fuel to be received by the municipalities instead of 5%, and this decision was finally made in this Chamber. Today I believe that 15% of the money from excise duties on fuel should go to the municipalities. Surely it would not be right to say that this percentage should be even higher then the main highways would have little money. But I have always believed that 75% of the excise duty on fuel should go straight to the roads, plus all the subsidies that we can get from the European Union. Then we would be able to create a situation in the next ten years that the road network is in order in Estonia. If we do not find additional resources for this, we will continue to be in the same situation as we have been for many years.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U34	Thank you very much for the waitress. There are still questions, but the time for answering questions is, unfortunately, full. Secondly, the main challenges and policy recommendations for local government and regional development, the representative of the organisers of the survey, the lecturer of the administration of the Tallinn University Institute of Social Sciences, the Vice-President of NGO Polis Sulev Lääne, for up to 20 minutes. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U35	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen! We thank the Riigikogu for the opportunity to present today's debate on a very important national issue! The experience of theoretical and practical development in our field was summed up by a working group which, apart from me, include my colleagues Kersten Kattai, Georg Sootla, Rivo Noorkõiv, Veiko Sepp and Mikk Lõhmus. We must recognise that this network of cooperation, which has so far worked very well, has also given us a very good input. Of course, we have used the forums and analyses that have been carried out over the years and which have also been contributed by politicians from the state and local authorities, as well as practitioners and experts. We believe that capable local authorities are fundamental to the functioning and development of the country, including, of course, regional development and rural sustainability. We thank the Committee on Rural Affairs of the Riigikogu, with whom we have prepared this OTRK! The topic has been discussed earlier in the Riigikogu, for example in September 2013, when OTRK was considered the Estonian Rural Development Plan 2014 The discussion focused primarily on this development plan. It is interesting to note that local authorities were hardly mentioned at all. A few times they sounded "city" and "city," but the word "city" was not mentioned at all. The fact that now the situation is quite different in this context is perhaps a sign of time. The recent reform has produced, if not very good, results. On the other hand, cooperation with the state, local authorities, universities and other institutions, with whom we have conducted several discussions, has become much more active in recent years. The OTRK debate on the partnership between the state and local authorities, which took place in 2010, has contributed to this. And these questions remain on the agenda. We propose a number of policy recommendations and alternative options. Before we get here, we've been talking to practitioners. We certainly also have topics for further discussions and, for example, on 4 December, the Tallinn University Forum will be able to participate in this topic. If you take the goal tree of the administrative reform, which is definitely one of the foundations of which the Riigikogu was based when dealing with the explanatory memorandum to the draft law on administrative reform, we can see that there are two major objectives. First of all, more sensible, democratic and sustainable government, in particular with regard to state reform. Secondly, more balanced local and regional development, both demographic and economic. Let's take a closer look. First of all, what are the objective indicators on which we must be guided? If we take the gross domestic product, we can see that Harjumaa accounted for 64% of Estonia's gross domestic product in 2016. The gross domestic product per capita in Tallinn and Harju County was 145% and 165%, respectively, compared to the Estonian average. The figure for Tartu was 90%, and together with Rapla County, these are the only counties in the area of growth. The figure for all other counties is less than 80%, while in nine counties it is less than 60%, in Põlva it is about 40%. So, socio-economic differences between counties are very large and have increased over the years. This forces us to look for solutions to harmonise economic development and the quality of the living environment on the territory of the country. An even sadder picture is given by the population's outflow from rural areas. Statistics Estonia estimates that by 2040 the population in ten counties has fallen by more than 25%, even more than 30% in Järva and Hiiumaa. Only in the counties of Tartu and Harju is this forecast positive. So if we look at this picture, we should think about the different options for possible development scenarios. The local autonomy index is one of the most important indicators for assessing countries in Europe. In order to get a picture of the Estonian situation, let's look at this scale on this slide. In general, the scale of the slide is very tight, Estonia is in 17th position. The main deficit is seen in two positions: weak financial autonomy and no formal input to national policy-making at central level. From the point of view of selecting local governments, the share of local taxes in income is important. Here we are certain winners, but unfortunately from the back. In Estonia, this percentage is only 3.5. You will also see other countries on the slide, for example in Iceland, this figure is 75% and slightly more. The Constitution and the European Charter of Local Government require that residents and local authorities should also interact at fiscal level. This would lead not only to close direct relations between local authorities and residents, but also to a much greater responsibility for the drawing up of the budget and the performance of the tasks of local authorities. It is also important to state in the Charter that the system of financing local authorities must be sufficiently diverse and flexible to keep pace with changes in expenditure needed to fulfil the tasks assigned to them. In this case, it would be possible to start talking about the local government's own fiscal policy and autonomy. We come back to the goal tree for administrative reform. We can see that it has five major pillars. First, changes in the organisation of the financing of the local government system; second, changes in the functions of the local government system; thirdly, changes in the requirements and recommendations of professional capacity; fourthly, changes in the forms of implementation and in cooperation and fifth, changes in administrative territoriality. Let's say we've done the last one, but there's still a big discussion ahead of us. The main question just as well as not only in Estonia is how we carry out two major functions of local governments. First, self-management, community democracy development, and second, public services. There is no news that this is a key issue in all democratic countries where these processes have taken place. And here is one major task of finding a balance between the functions of the state and those of the municipality. The Estonian local government system has followed the Nordic model, where decentralisation and the participation of residents are one of the central pillars. It is also important to have a consensus culture and to ensure the right of self-regulation of local governments and cooperation with the state. When discussing the objectives of the administrative reform, the topic of increasing the number of tasks and financing of the municipality should be mentioned. It is obvious that there are two principles in the development of local government: subsidiarity and autonomy. We should follow them both from the point of view of the Constitution and from the point of view of the Charter. What can we do in concrete terms? Let's look at the suggestions. Decentralization first. This objective was also one of the main arguments behind the implementation of the administrative reform. The Constitution's comments note that in a democratic society, the local government binds the state to civil society. This is one of the pillars of today's democratic rule. Thus, the protection and strengthening of democratic self-government is also a contribution to the implementation of the principle of decentralisation of public authority. Forms of legal, administrative, political and fiscal decentralisation are central to the relations between the state's central and local authorities. Without skilfully using them all and linking them together, it will not be possible to develop in the new context the Nordic model, which has been a model to date, according to the Charter. Similarly, it is important, especially in the case of large municipalities following administrative reform, that internal decentralisation also covers the municipality, both administratively and politically. And, of course, it is necessary to entrust tasks to the private sector and civil society, depending on the capacity of each municipality. The administrative reform was a decentralised reform of its nature, its content and a certain function in the relations between the state and the municipality. But in the current territorially large municipalities, there is inevitably a risk that marginalisation will increase. Previously carried out analyses have shown that following the merger of local governments, the population perceives a distancing of power and the emergence of peripheral areas. The problem of peripheralisation and decentralisation of local power has also been raised by the Kodukant. This topic was the subject of attention at the last forum held in November in Tartu. Such trends must be taken into account in the policy-making of the municipal and urban authorities, as well as the central government of the country, and measures designed to balance processes should be envisaged. One good way to do this is to design centres with natural backgrounds, including in-house attraction centres, which must be their own strategy. It is important to ensure local democracy through the involvement of the population. Open governance mechanisms should be considerably more implemented, and also in budgetary matters. It would be necessary to review the division of responsibilities and the financing system between municipalities and the state. Did you notice the slide that showed the percentage of our local taxes? Before the administrative reform, there was a sceptic that small municipalities might not be able to cope with the introduction of local taxes, but this has now changed. Of course, cooperation between the state and local authorities is needed in deciding when, how, in what extent to decentralise and ensure real fiscal autonomy. The first steps of the country in order to do so must also be considered here. For example, the OECD has stated that decentralisation is an important measure to increase the efficiency of public administration. The second issue we are addressing is the strengthening of the self-governing and regional level. Again, remember what picture we just looked at? The new situation has arisen in cooperation between local authorities. More able municipalities are able to carry out many tasks that did not seem feasible to them so far. At the same time, there are areas where municipalities and cities should cooperate better. A good example is the county planning that has been given to the state, while the development plan is for the municipality association to decide. There's a lot of confusion here. However, cooperation within the county may not often be sufficient. There are two or three rural towns in the county and this scale effect no longer provides. If regional disparities are increasing, it would be appropriate to consider legal and financial arrangements to change the situation. It is clear that the current situation is not really satisfactory. An example is § 1 of the Rural and Agricultural Market Organisation Act, which states: the purpose of the Act is to provide for measures to ensure, inter alia, a fair standard of living for rural residents and the balanced development of rural areas. We know that this has not actually been achieved everywhere. The same applies to the Local Government Associations Act, which states that the objective of the regional association is to contribute to the balanced and sustainable development of the county through the joint activities of the local government units in the county. At the same time, we know that there is no real county alliance in all counties. So who's supposed to be doing this? It is important to stress that the foundations of Estonian security policy approved by the Riigikogu last year mark the importance of regional development four times. Page 6 of the document explicitly states that uneven regional development can have an impact on domestic stability. It points out, among other things, that the state organises the development of the necessary infrastructure to ensure consistent regional development and settlement, supports greater capacity-building of local authorities and promotes the citizens' initiative. The division of responsibilities of local government and the content of forms of regional cooperation require a new systematic and compact reflection. Local authorities may have different forms of regional cooperation, which are distinguished by four types. First of all, non-formal cooperation, which means that there is no need for a legal basis for this, people can manage themselves. Secondly, the provision of services, where the legal aspect is not so important either, as well as the role of public law, but services can be provided in cooperation. But when we talk about the level of organisation of general public tasks, of course, we must look at both legislation and their form. However, in the case of strategic planning, much more needs to be taken into account in the new substantive side. For example, it has been pointed out that according to the State Liability Act, NGOs do not actually have any liability. The responsibilities of NGOs are not foreseen at all, but they carry out tasks directly related to people's daily lives. Another important dimension of cooperation is its voluntary or compulsory nature. This is an issue in itself, which has been discussed over the years in connection with various reforms and could be discussed further, but time unfortunately does not allow it. We believe that the model of government at regional level is necessary to decentralise public tasks and to implement local regional policy in a uniform manner throughout Estonia. It must be based on mandatory cooperation, regional cooperation and governance bodies with clear decision-making mechanisms at law level and a financial resource corresponding to the volume of tasks guaranteed. The territorial nature of regional cooperation needs further consideration. There are three main options: the current regional model, the regional model and finally the two-layer regional model. We could talk more about them too, probably during the discussion. Our third central proposal is to ensure strategic development in this area, which is also a prerequisite for the consistent implementation of the above proposals. Local government policy and regional policy need basic policies and strategies longer than one election period, which would enable the principles of subsidiarity and autonomy to be developed consistently. To this end, the Riigikogu should adopt the basic principles of regional and local government policy which give the government the task of developing a strategy for the development of local government in cooperation with stakeholders. This would include an action plan, resources, those responsible. The strategy should also be approved by the Riigikogu. Remember, when it came to security, it was said that the regional aspect was also important for national security. In order to ensure the sustainable development of the sector, a permanent institutional structure should be established: the Riigikogu Development Committee, the Permanent Institution of the Government of the Republic dealing with the development of the field and the Consolidated think tank of competent local and regional development, bringing together scientists, politicians and practitioners in the field. This topic was on the agenda in 2010 and I have already mentioned it as a very important national issue of 'Partnership between the Government and the State'. And I have to admit, a lot of things have changed around here. Indeed, the National Reform Commission and the Municipal Support Group were set up, while the Government Commission acted during the administrative reform. But all of them have been temporary and have been operating for a short time. There is no continuous analysis of sustainable development and indication of policies. In cooperation with universities, establish a basis to ensure research-based governance and local and regional development. Finally. Representatives of the state and local government and their associations and researchers, as well as civil society organisations and business organisations as partners, should necessarily participate in the policy-making process of local government. I am particularly emphasising the role of entrepreneurs, because in the current situation, the Estonian local government system does not see any links with entrepreneurship. However, in other countries, especially in the Nordic countries, this level is elementary. This would link the municipality's income base, the workforce and the whole block into one whole. Perhaps that could be one of the tasks at regional level. The proposal combines the need to reduce red tape and the establishment of a system of continuous monitoring of the provision of public services. We are at a time when society is changing from physical structures to digital structures. In order to address these challenges, capacity must be created to analyse what is happening and predict what the local government system will look like in ten to twenty years' time. The development of information and communication technologies, the virtual world and e-services, as well as innovation, must, of course, be taken into account. We are talking more and more about e-state, but the term e-government is still a stranger. Given the good trend of Estonian society towards such developments, the provision of e-government could be one of the development options. For example, Finland and Sweden are very active in doing this, and already ten years ago this topic was also on the table in Estonia. § 14 of the Constitution states that ensuring rights and freedoms is the responsibility of the legislative, executive and judicial authorities and local authorities. In this context, it is appropriate to refer to the position of the General Assembly of the Supreme Court, according to which the State cannot allow the availability of priority public services to arise from the economic capacity of a particular municipality of residence. The ultimate responsibility for guaranteeing fundamental rights lies with the country which is obliged to ensure that priority public services are available in the same way everywhere. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The local government of Estonia has historically been the cornerstone of the Estonian state. The map you are currently facing shows how scattered the Estonian population is. We can see that 61% of the population live in cities, 8.2% in small towns and 30.7% in rural areas. These people who live in the countryside actually also need an elementary living environment. As has been said today, they need you to drive home to take the kids home. This is the regional policy, the implementation of which has enough problems in Estonia. The possibility of life in the country is also a guarantee of the survival of the country according to our constitution. In cooperation with the state, local authorities and the research and other institutions involved, we may be able to solve problems and ensure the survival of rural areas. Thank you and your strength!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U36	Thank you very much for your themeful and thoughtful presentation! Now there's a round of questions. Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U37	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Thank you for this meaningful and thoughtful presentation, which contained many very clear and correct views. You also touched on administrative reform, both its objectives and its achievements. One that changed with the administrative reform was the disappearance of rural governments. Would you now assess the current situation? However, the county authorities carried out a wide range of tasks, one of which was certainly the preservation of the county identity. How willing are local authorities to deal specifically with the preservation of identity? It used to be in the parishes, who's now going to be in charge of keeping the county identity?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U38	Thank you very much for a very good question. Yes, the county administration of the structural unit of the county government is history. That is simply a fact and must be accepted. I guess their field of work has been open for a number of reasons lately. First of all, ensuring regional development is one of the most beautiful tasks that exists in the Estonian legal space. This was dealt with in Chapter 6 of the Government of the Republic Act. At the same time, rural governments did not have enough economic, organisational or legal mechanisms to actually ensure this development. We must admit that the task had been given, but the mechanism for its realisation was modest and perhaps not sufficiently worked out. Identity is one of the most important issues. After all, the whole issue of administrative reform revolved around it: democracy on one side, efficiency on the other. Now we have, in some ways, achieved efficiency, but we have to look at how democracy is. We have always said that the village movement actually recognises that their many believe that power has gone beyond them at this stage of the reform. Identity is multi-layered. First the village community with its identity, if any, and then the parish, but in the new area it takes time for identity to develop. In 1972 there was an administrative reform in Sweden, and Swedish experience has shown that it takes about 20 years for a new community to develop. It's been a year in Estonia, hasn't it? We can't tell you how and where identity is created right now. But in any case, it's emerging. When we meet with local government leaders, we hear that one of the main problems has been how to organise everything internally so that life can continue somehow. The vision of the future is currently not much to look at; the first year has passed on to the organizational work. I mean, if this look inside is more or less over, then there's also a identity, and it should be just a multilayer. What about the county? That is a very good question, because the county itself is a permanent unit. There are dances and singing parties in the county, and no one seems to be able to deny them if they want to do so. You can't force things like that from the outside. For example, if there are three municipalities, municipalities or cities in the county, how can they cope? In the river, for example, the county union is no longer active. Whether they can and will move this process forward, so that there is a county identity, it cannot be established by law. And as I was saying, there are three versions of a management system. Of course, the interests of the local people must also be taken into account, but how to balance efficiency and democracy, it is a matter of discussion in itself. One answer, I guess, isn't right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U39	Andres Herkel, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U40	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You very thoughtfully referred to the index of local autonomy, which is very low in our country, precisely because of the weakness of financial autonomy, but there are other aspects. Are there any studies that would answer the question of how to bring the initiative back to the local level in the first place when people are already accustomed to addiction in terms of both financial and party-political top-up initiatives? Do you know how some kind of correction of administrative reform errors could take place? With regard to the previous question, I would point out that there is a very close connection with identity, after all, with the emergence of such geographically not very coherent municipalities.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U41	Thank you. I dare say that autonomy is not all bad now. We have political and administrative autonomy, so the situation in Estonia is quite okay in that sense. As you can see from the slide, there's a lot of gauges. And, indeed, we must recognise that, in terms of fiscal autonomy, we have room for improvement, to be polite. But the question is twofold. On the one hand, of course, the state should set some framework. The previous compositions of the Riigikogu have discussed a number of drafts according to which one part of local autonomy, or fiscal autonomy, should increase. Proposals have been made to place individual income tax at the disposal of the municipality or to change its proportion within certain limits, as well as to convert land tax into a local tax or to introduce real estate tax in a certain part. There are different ways. But all of this requires the good will of the state and the readiness of the municipality. Those two things should be at once. As a result of the administrative-territorial reform, we believe that this readiness has increased considerably. If, until then, it could indeed be argued that a municipality with 500 or 1000 people simply could not create a fiscal policy for the municipality. In the current situation, this assumption is as created, but now it should be analysed in cooperation with representatives of the state and local governments, as well as with scientists, which would be optimal. It doesn't make sense to change everything on the day. You don't play with taxes, it's a beautiful slogan, is it? That's right! The stability of the country and the stability of the tax system are necessary. However, when I read the Charter, it seems that there is room for improvement in Estonia. So you have to think about what the best solution is. I wouldn't be in such a hurry here. I'd rather call on you to think further. The other part of the question concerned rural communities. Again, if you look at individual villages, then, as you know, you yourself have also certainly come to observe the views are very different. Half of the village wants to belong to one rural municipality, half of the village to another. We know that decision-making is on the council right now, and I think that's the right thing to do. But the other way around doesn't mean the council should be a dictator. Rather, it is a question of culture how we negotiate and what are the arguments on which we can say that this village could belong to one or another or to a third. If we are going to change this arrangement all the time, it is administratively unreasonable. Such decisions should be very thoughtful. In fact, it would also guarantee people's satisfaction, which is ultimately the goal. The aim of the entire administrative reform is to create a better system for people, not to develop administration as a bureaucratic mechanism.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U42	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U43	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! In your presentation, you stressed that there is now also a question of decisions at a certain regional level. At the same time, you referred with concern to certain statements that have been complaining about disincentives to the decision-making of the community and of the local level at all. It must be acknowledged that decisions at regional level can very clearly conflict with decisions taken by the local community, two good things at once, may not always be possible. When dealing with different municipalities and community units, it has the impression that in some places political power simply does not want to communicate with the smaller communities that have emerged in the new municipality. This implies that these communities must be much more active than they have been so far. Do you see a system error here, or rather a deficit in the functioning of democracy?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U44	Thank you. That's a very good question, and you've already answered that part. I mean, there are both factors at stake: systemic problems and lack of experience in the implementation of democracy. But let's start from the beginning. The regional block is not an Estonian phenomenon, and this is not an Estonian phenomenon. Our committee asked for an analysis of the experiences of neighbouring countries, such as Latvia and Finland. These issues have been resolved very differently and it is, of course, for each country to decide how it does something. The European Regional Charter was not adopted. But we have the experience of Finland, for example. Finland is currently undergoing the largest reform in its history. After several decades of the great role of the regional self-government association as a body governed by public law, the so-called "directly elected county' is carried out. And a number of major processes have been launched. On the one hand, it transfers the functions of the current county union, which is primarily planning and developmental activities. On the other hand, the state will hand over all the same workforce, the same entrepreneurial activity, to the county union, which will then be directly elected by the council. The draft law is currently under preparation. So the regional structure is not an Estonian phenomenon; it is an issue in many countries. The same can be said of Latvia, which we have also looked at. This is what the Commission asked for, and we will continue to do, regardless of what the new Latvian Government is doing. The current Prime Minister, who is also the Minister for Regional Affairs and Chairman of the Committee on Development, claims that Latvia's administrative reform, which also provided for integration like our reform, was the biggest problem of actually losing the regional level. Latvia is now called one city: Riga and the rest of Latvia are then there. Fortunately, there are still Tartu and other centres in Estonia, but other balanced centres no longer exist in Latvia. And they're very unhappy about it. So looking at current developments, it can be said that there should still be a regional level. As far as communities are concerned, you have a very legitimate question. The community cannot be ordered to occur, the community can be encouraged to occur. When we had a forum in Tartu, my good colleague gave an example that only eight municipalities have established municipalities. It's a matter of democracy. He noted that in many places village communities were not taken into account at all. It's a matter of democracy. Perhaps at some stage, when the rural municipality is still being built up, you can really understand the leader of the new rural municipality if he claims that he is still working on the internal appeal, creating a financing system and a new legal space, and he does not have time for anything else. But very right, you have to think about how to direct this process in a national and local policy way so that the community can still develop. This is a very complex issue. It is also a matter of local government itself, according to the Charter, of internal democratic structures. The question is whether the mayor should be given a new status, whether he should create, as in many villages, a village society that is the best form. Should be able to make suggestions. In many countries, these are the recommendations. In the long run, the community will be formed again. At present, communities have been partly broken because of the reform, nothing can be done. As regards how policies could be developed further, I imagine that, within the framework of the foundations of local government policy, these issues could also be discussed calmly, along with other general problems. If you remember, in 1993, the Riigikogu adopted a decision that there is a one-tier local government in Estonia, and everything else started to revolve around it. Now I imagine that this time is much more complicated, but if the Riigikogu adopted certain general principles on which the municipality should operate in Estonia, the whole system could be viewed in a holistic way from the point of view of both strategy and implementation plan and a common understanding. Right now, we're fighting a little bit from one place to another. It seems that we have been able to come up with a sustainable foundation plan and related activities in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U45	Thomas Väinaste.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U46	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! We know you've been dealing with local government issues for a long time. After accessions, the local government associations have far from got everything into place. How would you envisage further action by the local governments?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U47	Thank you for a good question. I have already stopped at this point in the previous answer. During the preparation of this debate, we met with the leaders of the three self-government associations. These were Andre Sepp, Chairman of the Board of the Association of Harjumaa Municipalities and Joel Jesse, CEO of the Association of Municipalities of Ida-Virumaa, for example, Eve East, Chairman of the Board, as well as the leaders of the Association of Municipalities of Pärnumaa. And these three, as well as Tartu and, in some way, Rapla, are alliances that can continue to operate now. And, sorry, of course, the West Viru. These alliances want to do something about it within this framework. But the question is within the framework. Let's look at the content of the tasks and the legal basis. I don't want to be specific, but once I mentioned that if the county union that is currently functioning as an NGO should continue, its planning activities are in the law, but what does it mean, sorry, developmental activities? These are two separate processes, one by the state, the other by the municipality. That doesn't make any sense. And while the county development plan is being completed, how will it work for the municipality? There was also a question of whether there would be duplication in the performance of the functions of the municipality and the State or of the region in the future. The practice of other countries shows that it does not. On the contrary, the only problem that arose in Latvia was that they kept only the region of the national plan and it was not enough to develop the balance of the Riga and other Latvian regions. Why does Finland make strong counties? It is precisely because Helsinki and the so-called Great Helsinki have now become so strong that other regions cannot compete with them. I read the Finnish bill that gives the government the right to introduce two-tier crisis aid in different regions of Finland. This means that the government can help certain regions, including the municipalities, which I find very interesting, by means of certain measures. They will be given the benefits that the regions will perhaps regain their vitality. It's a bill, it's not a law yet, but when I read it, it looked very nice. As far as the functions of these alliances are concerned, when only three municipalities belong to the Union and the day-to-day work takes place inside it, we cannot, after all, order that there should be a very high level of coordination. If you remember, I mentioned three different options in the report. The current regional self-government association may continue its activities. The second is a regional solution. What this region is on the scale of Estonia is a topic of its own, because most agencies and inspections have created their own structure and may not connect with each other. When speaking about the security strategy, it turned out that if there is a crisis, whether an economic or a military crisis, there would be a need for operational coordination, but our regions are different and coordination is very complex. And the third, most important topic: how the development of the municipality and the city and the region relate to the everyday life of the person. Here are the three moments I was talking about. The solution proposed in Finland seems very reasonable. Entrepreneurship, development and labour, or vocational education, could be in one block in the region. In this case, the problems will no longer be looked at as the unemployment fund is currently looking at, for example, by approaching them only in a sectoral way. Or we could take another major field, social security. There, too, is a purely sectoral approach to the problems, but it could also be approached from a regional point of view. All of this will certainly provide food for thought on how to expand the possibilities of solving problems on the ground in a much more effective way. The main contradiction at the moment is that there has been a gap between horizontal and sectoral governance in Estonia for years. In a number of other countries, this is problem number 1. The Minister of Justice will see if everything is legally correct, the Minister of Finance will see if everything is financially correct and, from a third point of view, the Minister of Regional Affairs will look, no matter what name he bears. He'll see if the system is regionally balanced. In Estonia, too, you might wonder how you can find ways to further develop regional alliances. One way would be to look at Latvia and wonder whether regional planning could be the responsibility of the state and the functions of local governments could be the responsibility of county councils. This is a subject that we should certainly discuss very thoroughly. For example, the Association of Harjumaa Municipalities has launched a project with seven Estonian local governments, which aims to create a regional model for Estonia or at least to analyse where it might reach. This job is still underway. We hope that the Harju project will succeed and we will get better information about possible developments. Rural cooperation is currently very uneven, just as the development of municipalities and cities was once uneven. That is why this reform was also needed. Some of the small areas became smaller, some became larger and the differential grew. This harmonisation has now taken place in many respects and should also be achieved at regional level. But is that possible and, if so, in what legal, financial and organisational forms?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U48	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U49	Good vice chairman! Thank you, waitress. Very many of the conclusions on administrative reform overlapd with the conclusions of the Free Party Group. My question concerns the role of villages in the context of peripheralisation. In my opinion, the role of villages must increase. Yesterday we had a debate on the rights of villages in the State Reform Committee, where a rural elder in Central Estonia claimed that villages were disappearing. Do you think that villages in Estonia are a disappearing phenomenon? And the second question is that, according to the Ministry of Finance, this territorial reform was only the first stage. You yourself also noted that it would take much longer than five to ten years for identity to develop, rather at least 20 years. What do you think is the minimum or maximum time that could result in further territorial reform? I understand the direction is taken for the attraction centers.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U50	Thank you for your question. First of all, the role of the villages. As I was trying to explain, the state should not be very active in the activities of villages in accordance with the principles of the Charter. According to the principle of subsidiarity, this is then the principle of subsidiarity, isn't it? It's an internal matter for the municipality. However, the state can either encourage it or not promote it. It seems to me that things vary enormously from place to place. There are places in Estonia where the village movement is very strong, where the municipality is actually based in the villages, a collection of village elders has been formed, which provides advice to the municipality's elder and council, the work is extremely intense and daily. At the same time, there are areas, as you said, where municipalities are modestly interested in the village movement, or where villages themselves are not very active for different reasons, again. As you know, Estonian history has not contributed to the preservation of village life either economically or purely politically. Everyone knows where we are in the whirlwind of history. That's why reading cigarettes is very important. If there are one-two-three cigarettes in the village, it is very difficult to build up an active village life there. But rather, of course, let the villages remain, from an identity point of view, this is very important. Now, what has been done and what can be done? It seems to me that we should continue to think about the fact that we are beginning to develop the uniqueness of villages. I'm involved in a village myself. We've had our own village society, we've got a village chief, and we're gonna go over there and discuss things. I used to be on the board of the stormy Tallinn Society, so in this sense I understand what you are talking about. In general, we do not have to say in advance what the village has to do, so the self-ordering aspect disappears. At the same time, I do not deny that 13 to 14 years ago it was suggested that the activities of villages in the Riigikogu be dealt with, as was the case with the municipality. I'm glad it didn't work out that way. Otherwise, we would have created an innovative administrative structure. But the village is a self-organized mechanism that should take life forward. I would not be talking about continuing the administrative reform now. This stage must be survived first. I wouldn't be talking about correcting mistakes either, but really, since the merger was basically voluntary, but eventually a little forced, these combinations have not all been able to live their logical lives. That's why I think let things be one election period for sure, if not two or three. Let the system show its viability, let the people show their will to live in this community. This will must come to pass. You wanted to ask if there would be a new stage in the reform. There are 15 counties now, and I wouldn't be in such a hurry. Because for whom are we going to reform? still for the human being. And remember, the municipality has two objectives: to ensure democracy and self-regulation, services. With the reform already in place, municipalities have in some way gone beyond people, power has been distancing, especially in the countryside. It was said earlier that that's why everyone needs transport. Of course, people are different. If anyone can use the Internet, it doesn't matter where the parish house is, does it? But the older generation must also receive, as the Constitution says, the same as other people have lived their lives. Let the stage in which power has gone beyond the people anyway be now. Effectiveness is important, but some balance has been struck with the possibility of self - organization. I wouldn't rush ahead, from a human point of view or from an administrative point of view.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U51	Dear waitress, thank you very much. The third presentation is made by the rural promoter, the entrepreneur, the manager of Nopri farm, Tiit Niilo, who has experienced the work of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U52	Greetings, reverends! Thank you, Mr President. What's the deal here today about the important question being brought out of the village? You can't bring it if you don't want to come and there's nothing to say. Today's title is the one that pulled me out of a cow and cheese like me. And I titled it not 'Give support to the manu! ' and 'Make more expensive milk! ' ', but something unusual from the mouth of the hillbilly, and I'm trying to present it here as quickly as the time limit allows. The title is neither more nor less than the call for 'the image of the cleanest country, for the joint work'. And the yardstick of this purest country is the first organic country in the world, which can in turn be measured by the amount of certified land in the field and in the harvesting area. I will give a little introduction to what I wish for today and dare to make this appeal. Let's look at the peasant story. It seems to me that it is very small to see up there the whole thing that I have been brought before honourable politicians, but I do not want to read these slides to you one at a time here, I will mention some of the more important things. Conceptual changes are needed, or we'll all die one by one. That's what a normal person doesn't understand. I asked Jüri Adams at the cafe how you feel about the hillbillies. He said, "But what's wrong with you? Nopril all the curds next to each other in every store. It's supposed to be okay. ' I want to assure you, friends, that there are some of us in our souls now, but important changes need to be made for the future. Why is it the right time to make such a call? I mean, you're the one who's supposed to be tweaking your programs right now, texting the people. A new funding period is about to begin, and Estonia is looking for its own challenge, its own Nokia. In addition, informed consumers have also awakened in Estonia, who demand clean food and the environment and that Estonia has something that connects everyone and that distinguishes them from others in the world. I dare, in a quarter of an hour of my experience, to generalise what has happened to me during this period of independence. This is why I give a microreview of what has been born in one of the back villages of Estonia in the example of Nopri. This list includes farming since 1990. Everyone who has taken care of the local life between the village, not only his cow farm and the field, but everything that creates the living environment, is forced to deal with the local life. During these years, there have been such activities, and that is something that all people who think normally can understand. One of the things we started in 2012 was the 'Come to Earth! '. What has become of it is a matter of its own. But the subject is still topical, because no matter how many jobs you want to create, it's been a long time since there's no one left to steal. At least five years ago, a person had to be brought from outside to fill every job. 'Come to the land! ' was the initiative that we wanted to change the situation. Today, Nopri Farm has also reached a level where four Ukrainians and one Russian have been put into work. The peasant's power did not prevail from helping Estonians to land, and I am now using the opportunities that exist. I had to take a brief look at the examples of Nopper. "The real farm food" and "The farm directly to you." A conscious and purchasing end-user is the one who could evaluate a product like us, which is a little more expensive than a product of a large industry. Retail clients are all major grocery stores, all chains, for example. There are 550 hectares in use and 220 cows produce milk. Employer for 30 people working in the country of the largest employer. That not everyone's local anymore, I already called it. Sales turnover is 1.5 million local cash and profit is zero. George asked me what's really wrong with you being here and bringing us this message, but everything seems fine with the rednecks. We've been working for 27 years, and now it's time for the next generation. You will see that the thin is not only my head, it will probably soon become thin between my ears, and the flesh will run out. If the next generation does not take over this work, the production of local food in Estonia will not continue, at least between the village. This list of years here is a story of a common farm, only with the distinction that Nopri's story continued in 1998 with milk processing, or added value, after which direct marketing came to shops where it was necessary to be competitive among all others. The fact that showing the countryside is part of food sales is also understandable. The hillbillies know that local resources are the most important means of survival, action and profit. In 2015, we started developing birch juice, which has been studied for several years in this way and in other ways. Seven products of birch juice have been placed on the market. Today, production has essentially been stopped because there is nothing to do with it in Estonia. The Estonian people are letting this juice into their basement and drive behind the tree, peasant, with their expensive bottle of birch juice. And it takes more than a picture of a farmer with a hat on a sign to sell out. The back big venture was to hire a Dutch cheesemaker to develop his dairy product in order to be a world-class product. You see, in my example, the final question is whether any of the five children following me want to continue the social entrepreneurship we have developed over this six generation and the last 27 years, and what, by the way, can be estimated that they live and produce, that everything is available in the store, that they have a stomach full of what is wrong. The spirit is inside, but unequal competition kills. And the fact that the pain doesn't seem to end is a brief summary of this 27-year-old struggle like me. So how do we get to a new level? What is the future to be expected? This, my friends, you've been discussing upstairs, upstairs, all the way down in this hall. The fact that the number of Estonians could increase and the country should be wealthy is not a strange or incomprehensible issue. But in order for prosperity to grow, we need to earn more so that we can re-distribute, and the export of expensive products will save poverty from the trap. This is confirmed in my experience that expensive products are very difficult to sell to the Estonian consumer. If there were a lot of Stockmann malls, there wouldn't be a problem, but there's only one. 4% of our production goes to the Stockmann mall, which is very receptive to products like us, but that is only 4% of our production. 96% need to be sold at a price rally with anyone who can come here, and everyone can come. Therefore, Estonia should value pure nature and healthy nutrition, which has been an important ideology of Nopri all these years. And now an excerpt from our strategy: 'A direction towards higher value added' and 'Production of processing to a new level'. This, my friends, means that the production of raw materials, i.e. the primary sector, processing and showing rural areas to the guest who wants it, should be such as to give our consumer a positive emotion. We need to get it to the next level. What's that? How do you do that? And would such an approach, or 'higher added value for food and its export', be suitable for the state? Those are my questions today. When I came here, I made a draft for a new development plan for agriculture and fisheries. A very brief assessment is that the content is unsatisfactory, which means that it does not save rural areas or Estonia. It plans a European average, a standard that is acceptable in Europe, and it has been added to everything that is slightly better than the European average. There are perfectly normal proposals that we need to distinguish ourselves from our competitors and that clean and fresh food should be what is expected to come from rednecks until 2030. But what would save us from the trouble of the speaker here? That's what you're not going to hear for the first time, but you're probably going to hear from a redneck right here for the first time. Estonia should be the cleanest country in the world, imagologically. That would give you a lot, and I'm hoping to show you a few more lines about that. Honourable people, what this title requires, we have. This would mean 51% organic land, i.e. arable land plus woodland. We've glowed with the garbage management, and we all know it in the world. We should allow smart innovation in everything, transparency and reliability, and so that visitors can experience it as genuine as we have it. Why do I, hillbilly, make such a suggestion? But because of the same nonsense, friends, the entire Estonian economy has no distinction. Everyone's making up what color to paint their packaging, how much and where to get support for marketing, to show their tricks that my business is different from other things in the world. The fact that the unequal and support-based rural area that we currently have is not sustainable is also understood. The face of organic farming today seems to be a waste of common money, as we have 200,000 hectares of organic land, but there is a shortage of production and an export volume of just 30 million euros a year. This is what shows the wit of the hillbillies: if Europe has offered me this opportunity, then I will receive double support and live. But why has it not been possible to produce and export it? This is what is before you in my example. Maybe why isn't Noprig a organic manufacturer now? But it's because we're not gonna be able to take any extra expense. The price we are currently selling is actually lower than the cost price. I have taken the extra cost and tried to make a presentation in Stockmann, Tallinn, about Nopri as a organic manufacturer, so one star is there. The cost is higher than the income, there will be no more sales. That is why the issue is that we cannot export. This is the main concern that we cannot offer our exclusive product to an expensive market. The state should direct the consumption of clean food and call on state companies, kindergartens and schools to do so, and that is why this proposal comes from the countryside. This is a proposal that should, in essence, address every normal person. The hillbillies themselves understand this very well, being in this environment, and that is why. We would take the utmost effort, which is to say that Estonia should be smooth and clean. That's what the state can fuck with. Maybe we're ready to keep the field and the forest clean and produce clean food, but everything in society should help. So, on to the top of the coordination. Of course, we hillbillies need coordination between us. If you think I'm here to present the whole hillbilly gang's proposal to be beautiful, clean and mild, then that's not the case. But I assure you that everyone I've been able to talk to on this subject and get to the point has pat on the shoulder and said that this is an adequate plan. What have we had here in the meantime? Welcome to Estonia, among the five richest in Estonia, traveling boulders, Skype and IT-state. They have not been able to do anything we need. What are our prerequisites for achieving the image of the cleanest country? Today, the tourist asks when this nature park will end as he travels around Estonia. In the world, we are the fourth cleanest in the air. We have the opportunity to make our shortcomings strong. For example, the mildness that haunts us and causes all the problems described by the previous speakers could be turned into strength if the basis was the image of a pure state. We missed the pulp mill. We got 'Let's do it! " known in the world. The oil shale does not yet tarnish our reputation in this section because its future has not been agreed. It is exactly the same with CO2 trade: the rednecks are not very dedicated to it and are not involved. But we have a lot of options, and we can help in this direction. 90% of the value of harvesting areas has not been used. I confirm that it is possible to produce added value from forest harvesting areas in this way at least in the same value as the forest itself...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U53	Thank you, Tiit Niilo! The Rural Affairs Committee thought you could talk for 20 minutes. You've already had 21.32 minutes, and I'm gonna have to cut you off.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U54	But it went well.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U55	But there are questions. Anneli Ott, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U56	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! First of all, Tiit, thank you very much! I think the idea that if you live in a village or community, everyone has to bet, you can't be an outsider, is very important. Aside from this, there is also a major impact on the development of the community. But your presentation was very interesting and raised a lot of problems. Tell me what you see as the foundation on which we can use the local resource and build an ecologically balanced country. What are the basic moments from which we should start: about directing people's choices and changing their minds or any specific national measures? What is the foundation from which we should move forward?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U57	Guys, this is a complete plan. And the way to start it is known, it's been started. The current coalition agreement states that a comprehensive plan for the organic economy must be implemented. There are even several metrics for this: 250,000 hectares of organic land and 1.5 million forest harvesting areas, accounting for 60% of forest area by 2021. These are very important signs. This issue of figures is this physical asset and a measurable result that we can use to create an image of the country. The same plan requires that we educate each other, we do the work that can already be done in Estonia in schools, among the people and among the buyers. We have food on the table and clothes on, we don't have to work on the hip anymore, but we can deal with the substance. The education of Estonian people on this subject is, of course, important and everyone wins from reaching an agreement that it is necessary for everyone to have what a pure Estonian image gives.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U58	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U59	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, first of all, thank you very much for this presentation. It had both practical experience and a bold desire for the future. My question concerns joint action. As early as the 20th century, joint action laid the foundation for Estonia's economic independence. How are we now in rural areas with joint action between farmers and businesses?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U60	Collaboration is a bad thing. This is one reason why we are in exactly the situation where we spend energy, individually, to improve our production capacity, to process and market, or to sell. We do this at the level of micro-enterprises, small businesses within our capabilities and with our modest money. While during the Estonian era exports of wealth to the house through cooperatives and articles were butter and bacon, there are no such positive examples that no one can export Estonian food as a cooperative. The e-Pime is one of these exporters and the Saaremaa Dairy industry has also come quite far with the development of organic products, but unfortunately there is no joint processing, marketing or export in the entire food sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U61	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U62	Good manager! Good Tiit, first of all, I want to thank you for a very meaningful presentation and for being prepared to come here! I have this organic and organic Estonia in my soul as much as you do. What are we supposed to do? We are actually one of the most forested lands after Finland, Sweden, Slovenia and Latvia: from our land, the forest covers 52%. Estonia is also one of the most active on natural innovation alongside Slovenia. On the one hand, this organic area is there if you look at the woodland. The other way around, as you mentioned yourself, there are many organic producers in agriculture who take money out, only there are few who sell something after that. Is it not a catch that we should put more emphasis on producing something to receive support? Then perhaps these producers, you too, would be able to increase these benefits now.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U63	Once again, in this economy, the whole point is the motive for producing money. Landlords have an important part of their income as a grant, i.e. it has been made comfortable. I described one of these examples when I was talking about the outcome of the organic field right now. If the state would help marketing and generate demand, it would help us all. This 200,000 hectares would immediately produce processed and marketed food if it had support. Let's take the same case of birch juice. Our family business currently has 250 tons of juice in the freezer and is waiting for export. This requires a very special effort so that we can send it to Asia, Germany or somewhere else, and it has been done for four years. Luckily, last year, over 200 tons of frozen raw birch juice was sold to Germany. This year it's unsold, I could use some help. So the motive to produce on the market is that micro-enterprises, all of us in Estonia, do not have to cover all the costs themselves, all the articles relating to the production of raw materials, product development, processing and marketing. If the country's image support were real and there were funds in the budget, i.e. exports to a purchasing market, the story would be quite different. It's exactly the same with the forest. We have unexploited forest harvesting areas now, but not only. What nature tourism involves also requires sales and marketing capacity. If we were in the picture as the cleanest country in the world, there would be pressure from the buyer. He would have the desire and interest to come here to receive a service or product.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U64	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U65	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I agree with this as regards the non-dependence of organic production on organic subsidies. It is good to hear it spoken directly by the farmer and the rural man himself, so it is acceptable. If the minister talks about it, they'll be ready to kill him with sticks. One thing has to be acknowledged, however: the fact that this support has arisen gives the opportunity to display so-called'soft numbers', which may be necessary and useful at one stage. But the ultimate goal of creating value added through production is certainly important. I want to ask you, too. You indicated that your profits are now zero. And I didn't understand if your children were ready to take over your company. It must be acknowledged that at one point it may also be important for certain operators to have land that has quite high value thanks to the means of production. It could also be a pension pillar...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U66	Question!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U67	... although I think that every entrepreneur's dream may not be to sell his company.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U68	It is very difficult to talk about the pension pillar in the form of a farm for the simple reason that most hillbillies holding a field have two-thirds of the rental land, i.e. it is not theirs. There's a long story about pros and cons. So there is no reason to talk about the pension pillar in this respect. Now, whether there is a generational change in Estonia. It does, but not in a way that is to be expected. Nopri is an extraordinary case. There is a special situation in the sense that four out of five children are circling their businesses. One of them is the dairy production manager and has been doing this work for over a year. If you look at the list of unpaid invoices, i.e. outstanding obligations, at this job, you will be crying. To think that young people would want nothing but trouble is not justified. Therefore, sales, marketing and access to an exclusive market are the goal of all Estonian entrepreneurs. The image of the purest country would provide capacity and help to all, whether it is wooden houses, food, tourism services or other products or services.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U69	Siret Eagle-Repinski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U70	Thank you, Mr President. Good Tiit, thank you for a very meaningful presentation. You also pointed out in your presentation that farms are often able to create a very good product, but they are clearly struggling with marketing. And you said the country should come here to help. I agree with you, but, based on your personal experience, would you point out specific aspects of how the state should come to help? What should the country do to enable farms to market and export their products?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U71	I hope that the idea, or call, of this broken report remained: the image of a better state would be desired by everyone, both those who came back to Estonia, those who were born here, etc. How specifically would we be able to get help from the state, from the way it behaves? We take our own army, kindergartens and schools, our own state agencies. At present, they all have one determinant: the most advantageous price. We're in kindergarten with curd coming from Poland. Our own offer will not get there because we will not be able to produce at that price, even though consumers are around us in Võrumaa. We have a marginal share of production going in this direction. For example, we only work with the final customer, the shop user, who should be able to buy and be aware. In any case, the state can help to sell Estonian food if it is agreed that we will not kill each other with price-only competition. We are monitoring what is happening, for example, in the transport of the Food Union: one of the most inexpensive disputes is about sales on the domestic market. It looks at how consumers can be fooled by different signs, but the transparency that food actually contains is not guaranteed in any way. If we were able to sell a genuinely expensive product outside, we could pay our workers a higher salary and they could also start buying their own products. So there are a lot of topics, contradictions and country options here.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U72	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U73	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Mr Niilo, thank you very much for this presentation and also for the products that our family has been an admirer of for a very long time. When you visit, it is really good to see that the whole family is involved in the company. You also said that five of your current employees are from Ukraine and Russia, while Võrumaa has one of the highest unemployment rates in Estonia. What's your experience with you? Why don't you find enough employees in Võrumaa? Don't you think they just are? Do you pay too little pay compared to the average in the region or do people's skills not meet your expectations? What are these reasons?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U74	Thank you, Liina, for a very appropriate and constructive question. I pay little in European terms, of course. After all, the world is open to the worker. He'll see where the pay is better. If you take Võrumaa's average salary, I'll pay it over, but it doesn't guarantee that there's a press or someone waiting at the door in a company with 30 jobs. So every god job we create comes at the expense of the incoming labor. The fact that there are at least 5% of the people of Estonia who would be willing to move to the country under different conditions is a fact. This is what we have checked over the years of helping the country, but it is not enough. Only the employer and his salary are not enough to make it normal to live in the country. All other elements, other services also affect. So we can confirm that there are enough jobs in the country with a competitive local wage, but there are not those who would like to be there. How can such a desire be created in humans? This can be caused by the idea that it is prestigious to live in Estonia with pure nature, privacy and dispersal. This is where those who appreciate the countryside and the living environment want to live. Then it is not a universally important indicator of salary, as it now appears or tends to be. Those who would like to come back from the rest of the world and whose hourly fee should start at EUR 7 are very high. Seven euros an hour, I can pay a Dutchman who's a specialist and I can't take who from here. Those who aren't professionals and who have to be trained myself, I can't pay another five euros, friends. I could if I had a chance to sell at a higher price.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U75	Dear Nopri farm master Tiit Niilo, thank you for your presentation! We're almost out of time for questions. Thanks!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U76	Thanks for putting up with me! My performance experience has long passed out. As you understand, one third of the will was passed on, two thirds were not given. If you're interested, you can look here.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U77	I'm opening negotiations. On the proposal of the Committee on Rural Affairs, I would like the representatives of the political groups to speak first, and I expect that this will happen. As a representative of the Urmas Kruuse Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U78	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen! Honourable waitresses! What sounded from this remote unit today is important, important, and I have to admit that some things come in step by step. I remember how in this difficult time of crisis, when I was a minister, the preparation of the organic register was one of the things that started. Luckily, it exists today, and we should move on from here. I agree that the environment and cleanliness, including organic farming, are important signs. I will start with what the state can do to ensure that this form of enterprise develops. I think that we should start with community-based organic regions where entrepreneurs and residents are prepared to agree that they are also trying to distinguish and find outputs for kindergartens and schools. There are few examples in Estonia, but the production of this sector and its enhancement do not lead to income growth. I can tell you an example from my experience when I met the Chinese Deputy Minister. When ministers sit at the table, one representing 1.3 million and the other representing 1.3 billion people, the question arises as to what we, the little ones, have to offer them. When it comes to quantities, I can just say, for example, that even though we have a self-sufficiency level in fisheries above 400%, so that we can catch and produce more than we consume ourselves, it would be enough for Beijing for one week. It means you have to stand out, be special. But when we started talking about clean nature, clean air, organic land and organic forest in these negotiations, we became quite equal partners because it is respected. So all opportunities for export development through a better image are extremely important. Innovation. It is certainly as necessary as joint activities, marketing and the ability to sell their goods. When we look at what has happened to rural areas, it seems to me that we are underestimating certain political activities that may affect one or the other. Aivar Kokk mentioned here the problems of the closure of rural shops and border trade in Elva. I will add one more thing that the residents and the local promoters themselves have said. Free transport, which was supposed to bring happiness to everyone's yard, has created a new problem. This means that rural shops no longer buy goods from locals, and these shops are closed down. Is that the tendency we wanted to achieve? We wanted to solve social problems in certain regions across Estonia, but we created a new problem. This shows, in my opinion, the incompetence of the government and the fact that free transport is certainly not innovation in rural terms. Mr. Niilo was talking about the young, the offspring. It is certain that this is a global problem, it is not just a question in Estonia. I have met rural and agricultural ministers around the world. There is a similar problem elsewhere: the population is ageing, the entrepreneurs are older and the transfer of the company is difficult. It is also certain that in Estonia today, for example, this land issue could and should be considered. Actually, Mr. Niilo was talking about the land deficit. In my opinion, it does not make sense for the state to sell a certain part of the country. It could provide land in a strategic, long-term way for young start-ups, for example, in order for them to be able to start their own production. Earth is a resource that is certainly important to a start-up company, and it may not be that easy to reach. Speaking of one other thing, Aivar Chef brought here the question of tea. To my great surprise, the budget comes out of such a fact that if... Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U79	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U80	... 59 million were earmarked for local roads in 2016 and 66 million in 2017, then only 51 million in the 2019 budget. The question arises as to why money is not put there even after some residents have been raised taxes and the income tax law has been literally amended. It should be understood and understood very clearly that this is not only a matter of borrowing but also of reasonable use of available resources. We want or do not want, free entrepreneurship is by its very nature the most important motivator, and it is fair that it is also associated with risks. At the same time, it must also be acknowledged in a small Estonian country that if we take the same Võru, Valga or Põlva alongside Tallinn, for example, it is quite different how an entrepreneur gets more capital, not to mention loan guarantees or opportunities to invest in development. In fact, this means that the State must find ways to address financial market failures and to help these companies. One of the options that we have partly used, but which should be implemented more in the future, is linked to the Rural Promotion Foundation, which could support the ignored development of banks and take the risk that is urgently needed in these regions. Otherwise, the question arises as to why I should develop something as large a risk area as I can go to Harjumaa or whatever. At one point, the economy and our incomes will play a very clear role. I had a very good experience at the Farmer's Conference of the Year, where young entrepreneurs described their understanding of how entrepreneurship should be dealt with in the future, which are these challenges. Let me just give you an example. The price of agricultural land has increased tens of times compared to 10 or 15 years ago, we have already reached around 4000 euros per hectare in sales figures, but the price of milk has remained the same for 10 years. Here is the question of how much we can generate in the rural environment from one hectare in order to increase our income. This makes it very clear that we should look at this land resource in the wider key and through the prism of the bioeconomy. How do you do that? Is it related to the production of food or energy? The fact is that incomes must increase, otherwise people do not want to stay in the country. Let's go a little further and think (the time is running out) what we can still do. I'm sure life on Earth is possible. The jokers say that only the stronger can survive, but the country here can alleviate the barriers so that enterprising people can be delivered. It should be served by an economic environment and a tax system, and income growth should not be punished so that people feel that their efforts are also properly recognised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U81	On behalf of the Group of the Anneli Ott Centre Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U82	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to thank all the previous rapporteurs for their very meaningful and intelligent presentations. The issue of rural development is certainly very broad. Well, rural life is like any other life, i.e. it affects all areas. I am pleased to note that the government has also taken very important steps in recent years to improve the situation in the country. As the previous speaker said, there are opportunities for this, and I can see that these opportunities have been used. As far as we know, the country's regional development is concentrated mainly in two attraction centres, which are, of course, Tallinn and Tartu and their neighbouring regions. I think that, in future, regional policy will become a lifeline for the creation of strong regional centres. For example, 44% of public sector jobs currently exist in Tallinn and 23% in Tartu, and the remaining 33% are divided between all other counties. For many years, the development of smaller centres has not been the subject of conscious attention. This is where we need to contribute all the more to the development of 13 strong centres of attraction, which has also been the subject of a measure of job creation or, rather, the removal of public jobs from Tallinn. Today more than 700 officials or jobs have been taken out of Tallinn and work in this direction will continue. Here critics speak of deportation and some of these terms. While living in rural areas myself, I ask why we did not talk about deportations or completely pointless measures when these redundancies and removals were in the opposite direction and when people had to go to Finland or change their place of residence to do so. At this point, I am certainly of the opinion that this topic should go further with the removal of jobs, at least in Tallinn, and the creation of new jobs in rural areas. The specific target group we need to think about are these young people, and perhaps the families that have already raised their children, who want to go back to their roots. So to speak, there may be fewer new rural inhabitants, but it is those who want to return to their roots, restore their parents' homes, or fix their grandparents' houses that are certainly more of those who hold that feeling in their hearts. Here we need to find solutions so that they have this opportunity. Reducing regional disparities must be a constant regional policy direction. At its service, it also aims to ensure that state governments are sustainable and that their capacity as providers of good and modern services is uniform and strong throughout Estonia, from south-eastern Estonia to the West-Estonian islands. The objective of the Centre Party is to continue the course of the last two years: to reduce the large disparities in regional development in Estonia and to ensure the socially integrated and balanced development of Estonian regions. The decision to restore the income base of local governments has brought about a significant change. In the last two years, the income base has gradually increased and will increase by an additional EUR 185 million over the period 2018-2021. Contrary to the decision to reduce the revenue base of the local governments in 2009, we consider it important to preserve and gradually increase the financial resources of the cities and rural municipalities of Estonia so that local governments can make new investments and provide quality services to local residents. A strong local level and sustainable rural area will ensure a viable country, as our Prime Minister has said. In order to achieve consistent regional development, we have developed additional national programmes to support and assist counties located on the outskirts of Estonia. One such county is known to be Ida-Virumaa. Studies show that there is the lowest income and the fastest shrinking and ageing population in Estonia. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U83	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U84	In order to raise the wage levels of local residents and to develop the region's living environment and entrepreneurship, nearly EUR 20 million will be contributed to the region in the next four years. South-East Estonia has also been one of the most complex regions along with Ida-Viru County, which is why the Government of the Republic has decided to support the South-East Estonia region with 3.2 million euros in the next four years. The programmes launched help to reduce the large disparities in regional development across Estonia through business support. It is important to increase funding for regional programmes in the future and why not consider launching programmes with the same objective elsewhere in Estonia. Measures to support entrepreneurship are necessary to help our people in rural areas. Road conditions are also directly linked to quality of life in rural areas. This issue is also constantly being raised in all-Estonian public polls and meetings organised by the Centre Party. Instead of underfunding local roads which lasted a long time in previous years and paying attention only to larger road projects, we must equally improve the situation of national roads in rural areas, because their poor quality is an important obstacle to the development of the region. In this case, young people are reluctant to come to the country because of poor road maintenance, and entrepreneurs do not want to take risks, which is why the development of entrepreneurship in rural areas is hampered. It is certain that the road network must be even more invested and, above all, gravel roads must be dust-free. Since gravel roads are still relatively high in Estonia, we could use some of the funds from fuel excise to speed up this process. In order to support rural entrepreneurship, Estonia has implemented the Leader programme of the Agricultural Fund since 2006, one of the options for further development of which is, for example, the introduction of multi-funds. There are currently 20 countries in the European Union that are already implementing multi-funds, but Estonia is among the eight lagging behind. We have not found a way to channel support from other funds to rural areas, alongside agricultural funds. Rural areas are not just about agriculture, but also all the other sectors there need support. In general, the current feeling is that people in rural areas are willing to take greater responsibility and contribute more themselves so that their communities can live there. I therefore think that it is very appropriate to increase the role of local authorities, to give them opportunities for self-decision, and also to implement local support measures that local people themselves can regulate for the development of entrepreneurship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U85	Honourable Riigikogu, the time has come for procedural decisions. Two proposals have been received to extend the working time of today's sitting. They're different. I will put them to the vote in logical order: first what takes longer and then what takes less time. I can tell you what they are. The Committee on Rural Affairs has proposed to extend the session until the agenda item is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. And the Group of the Social Democratic Party has proposed to extend the working time of the sitting until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. I will put it far away first, because if the first proposal goes through, you will not be able to vote. It's not like it's fair, is it? Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Social Democratic Party Group to extend the session of the Riigikogu until the end of today's agenda, but no longer than 14 o'clock. Please take a stand and vote. There are 30 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal, there is no one against, with one abstention. The proposal has been adopted and the time for the sitting has been extended until the end of today's agenda and the proposal of the Committee on Rural Affairs has been accepted. Helir-Valdor Seeder has a procedural question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U86	Thank you, Mr President. I do have a procedural question. How did you know in advance that, for example, the second proposal would not have received as many or more votes? Perhaps Members would have been prepared to support this, too?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U87	But I did so cleverly that both were supported. Did you notice? Let's continue the negotiations. On behalf of the Free Party Group, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U88	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, I think today's theme of 'the possibility of life in a country' is one of the key issues in the context of our sustainability, and I thank our two external speakers very much. The fascinating Western proposals and conclusions were certainly what we could have heard during the administrative reform law procedure. There were details and suggestions that could have been applied in law. And what I'd like to say to Maamis Niilo is that it's Thursday's birthday in Adams Jürka. We thought we'd bring him those Niilo products from Stockmann then he could see how sustainable this life is in the countryside. Secondly, I am very pleased that it was Tiit who brought this topic of Estonia as an organic state into this hall. It itself is not a organic producer and really understands what this transition means from one production method to another. He's a person from internship. We in the group have also had a debate on this issue, but it has remained at the level of officials and has not been so inclusive or credible. In this sense, it would be nice if the leadership of the Wing could continue these organic discussions in this house. I am building on yesterday's meeting of the State Reform Problem Committee, where we talked about the rights of villages in the context of a local initiative. The most remarkable examples were the desire of villages to define their territory during the administrative reform. I really share the view that, as a result of administrative reform, the role of villages must increase, both in the context of identity and in terms of giving people additional opportunities and the dimension of communityhood. Yes, the problem is that Estonia is uneven, but this unevenness is largely the result of the work of this hall. It has been said from year to year that when we make drafts and take decisions, we must have an analysis of how this affects one region or another more regionally. And it would be good if we finally put things into practice. We cannot say today that we are going to balance Estonia, because the differences are so great. We need to move towards a more balanced Estonia, that is definitely what we need to achieve. One method is indeed to guarantee autonomy for municipalities. We're saying we have autonomy, but I'm saying it's apparent. This is also referred to by OECD studies, which say directly that we have a trivial treatment of local governments. That's what I think when I read these texts. Perhaps local governments are not involved in the creation of public policies, which would be very important, and secondly, they are not given the means of flexible policy making on the ground. I think that if we can't even discuss this point, it's gonna take some time, then it's gonna be even harder for us to talk about the possibility of living in the country. These are the instruments through which local authorities, as well as communities, can shape the environment and why we would like to be on the ground. I would also recommend that you read the June Monitoring Centre's analysis of models of government and e-government strategies. It has also touched on these aspects under the point that we are a small country and that we can also give our services to communities themselves. We could create this flexible system. Our current state government is very rigidly built , which was also pointed out by Sulev in the West, and this closure, or centralisation, was created and strengthened by administrative reform. The Free Party has come up with this proposal to the government that we should also work much harder towards the European Union in order for more resources to reach the rural area. The chairman of the committee here tried to say that we were getting more and more subsidies into the regions. But it turns out from EAS statistics that rather they reach the centres or their surroundings, the so-called rural area receives a few single payments, this proportion is too high. Last night's debate in the Committee on Problems also made it very clear that our political culture is not open at local level either. I would say that much is being mimicked in the extremes and contradictions of this hall, which has led to communities feeling excluded. They'll have to accept the situation eventually, but it's not motivating for them. This is not an environment in which they would like to raise their children and give them, or their grandchildren, a signal to come back at one point. The attitudes and values should change. Saving and assembling these values definitely need to be developed. We saw a major activation of social activities around 2010. These activists are tired today because they see it as running against a closed system. It doesn't make much sense if it ultimately affects your own health and pleasantness in your home country. Perhaps my appeal is that we can actually change very much our behaviour and attitudes. In conclusion, I would still like to say that please let us not punish the people living in the country by making decisions in this hall. I have already mentioned the road user tax in my question, but I will also mention the excise policy, especially the fuel excise policy. Unfortunately, the rural area cannot carry the race for wage growth. These are the keywords that we should certainly take more account of in decisions that affect the rural area and the regional level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U89	On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of Tanel Winter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U90	In my opinion, it is quite interesting that, in addition to the initiators of today's debate on a key national issue, unfortunately, all the 'foreign rapporteurs' have already left the hall. But I'm still gonna start like I wrote down here. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear guests and ladies and gentlemen, who are you here? I very much hope that our foreign speakers today will also be in someone's office somewhere and will watch and listen to us carefully. Now let's get down to business. For the social democrats, it has always been important to ensure a level playing field in our country for all, including regardless of the property or social status or place of residence, which is important in the context of today's debate. Unfortunately, we are in a situation where living in a country means significantly less access to the opportunities that the country should guarantee to all its people. Of course, there are a lot of objective reasons here in the case of diffuse settlements that is more expensive and more difficult to offer services than in metropolitan areas, but it is the task of the state to come to the aid where the normal market economy does not work. The Social Democrats are convinced that we need to contribute even more so that people do not have to move away from their home because, for example, they do not have a proper internet connection, normal roads or efficient public transport. After all, it is in all our interests that life goes everywhere in Estonia. Clearly, much depends on the people themselves, our thinking. More cooperation and self-education will never hurt, but it is also harder for people to access this education in rural areas because there is no Internet, the bus does not even go for ticket money and the roads have broken down. I'm not saying that the situation is completely catastrophic. We have worked very hard to reduce regional disparities and, in fact, our communities are growing stronger in society. For this, of course, it is important to thank our fine and mission-minded villagers, who are not only home to the four walls of their room, but for whom it is important that life progresses throughout the region. I am absolutely sure that we can read about the importance of life in the countryside in the electoral programmes of all political parties. But, obviously, the people of the country read more about what they say than what they do, and it has to be said that the composition of the XIII Riigikogu has done quite well. Together, we have made a serious effort to bring reliable and affordable internet access to scattered areas. Now we can say that over the next five years, light cable will be transferred to 200,000 addresses with state support alone, and private companies will continue to do so. At this point, I would like to thank my coalition partners, led by Andres Metsoja and Erki Savisaar, for their excellent and statesmanly cooperation. Under the leadership of the Social Democrats, an innovative and smart public transport test is also carried out in Saaremaa. The first drivers in the community should start working there this year. There is certainly a need to continue and increase the volume and limits of the network connection programme. We also support the creation of renewable local power plants and increase the interest of local authorities in creating and maintaining jobs. Dear people, I would like to draw attention to one of the proposals that has been made here today that the state can contribute to the export of companies by creating its ambitious image. This is very important and I cannot fail to state in today's situation that the overall reputation of our country is also important, not only whether we are a fully organicised country or not. It is clear that our foreign missions could be even bigger helpers for Estonian companies in opening doors and dealing with the external economy in general must be even stronger. However, I would like to emphasise that the reputation of living in the countryside also needs to be improved in my opinion. Living on earth does not mean poverty or backwardness for a long time, yet it is even being tried to show it in our television series. 'The land life of the pop! " is not just a word. Look around our villages: it is in the countryside that the most modern technological solutions have often been introduced... I'm asking for a little extra time!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U91	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U92	... and this line must be maintained both in homes and in companies, but also in services provided by the state. Once again, I would like to thank the rapporteurs today for drawing our attention to the need to increase the digital capacity of local authorities. This is the only way to compete with the competitive advantage of metropolitan areas, the so-called mass. Rural areas have their competitive advantages, and it is up to us to help people make the most of them. I am pleased that all our rapporteurs today also stressed the importance of innovation. Knowing our people in the country, I am very hopeful, and they are very strong, resourceful, and wise people. I agree with Tiit Niilo that we should not set an average European level as our ambition, but that we must aim to be the best in the world. In my opinion, too, Estonia has always been driven by crazy ideas and goals. Our rural area has a lot of competitive advantages. So, good friends, please, let's be smart and use them nicely! Thank you for your time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U93	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U94	Mr President, few listeners. This is a matter of national importance, but there are just over ten Members in the Chamber. This probably shows how important this debate is nationally. A deep bow to Tiit Niilo, who, unfortunately, is not here. Tiit has really been able to do a great deal in a distant country, but his decades of efforts have also resulted in statements that the future is rather pessimistic, unequal competition kills, equal conditions do not appear and the pain does not seem to end. I would point out that Tiit Niilo's party partner has been Minister for Rural Affairs or Agriculture for years, but the result remains weeping. And Tiit Niilo is a big enough producer: he employs 30 people, he has an annual turnover of 1.5 million, but profits are zero. But I'm talking about smaller ones. I'm talking about a village in Tartumaa where seven small production farms started at the same time as Tiidu. Five of them have locked the doors, two are still in the air. Raise strawberries, cucumbers, and other stuff. One night in July, I put a picture of a farm on Facebook with two tons of cucumbers that went to the canning plant. I also said a few words that the family will receive 400 euros in a month's time, which will not be enough for the workers' wages. Throughout the year, they have income of EUR 6000, of which EUR 4 x 470 must be paid as social tax as a self-employed person. So that's the reality. Strangely enough, people cared. The picture, which contained two tons of cucumbers, perhaps worth 400 euros in a month, was divided 1400 times, so it touched something. And it is, as Tiit Niilo said here, unfair competition that has so far killed and continues to kill. It's killed small three-hectare farms, and now it's killing ten-hectare and a little bigger farms. On the one hand, buying-in prices are extremely high, but the quantities for shopping centres are high for them. The result is that you race with your whole family from early morning to late night, no rest days, but you still don't end up. The country has not come here to help in any way. Let's get the strawberries. Polish strawberry is a well-known player, often sold as Estonian strawberry. The current Minister for Rural Affairs, Tarmo Tamm, has also repeatedly assured us that nothing can be done, while farmers say that look at Finland and elsewhere. If there is a season, it is possible to limit them to not being placed on the market. But the reality is, the whole thing goes on. All of this actually weakens our rural and small producers. We have more than half, 54% of farmers holding up to ten hectares of farmland, but they only hold 3% of agricultural land. That's what we're talking about right now. Tiit Niilo is a bigger producer, but also his conclusion is that the soul is chained and the future is black. If we look at the next budget we are going to discuss, it is promised that there will be a lot more money for rural areas. Direct payments around 140 million...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U95	Peter Ernits, I think you're gonna need some extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U96	Yes, thank you! Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U97	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U98	... organic production support is 1.5 million etc. But let's see where the money goes. So where does the money go? Do you remember how the excise was raised in November last year? On 14 December 2016, my colleague, Urve Tiidus, asked what the impact analysis says about the increase in excise duty. Stalnukhin, Chairman of the Monetary Commission, replied: "I have not seen it. I'm sure I'll watch it, we've got a long and interesting night ahead of us. " Krista Aru asked how the planned increase in excise duty would affect border country shops. Reply from the Chairman of the Monetary Commission: "I really find this concern difficult to understand because I do not drink beer myself. ' Result: Over the course of the year, 40 small border shops and border trade closed down, losing 50.60 million, but many times more with other things. I now ask how this decision was taken. It was taken over, without thinking, without discussion, and with the sentence that the chairman of the committee does not drink beer, it is not his concern. In fact, it could be said that this is an irreconcilable approach. I do not think that it is possible to go on like this to say that we have done nothing and that we cannot do anything when rural areas are a national issue of vital importance to us. But I repeat: the current picture of the hall shows that it does not really matter. It's just a show for a few, a dozen colleagues. I respect you, at least, for being here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U99	There is no further wish for negotiations, so I will close this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U100	Our next item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on Rural and Agricultural Market Organisation, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 720. The rapporteur for the Rural Affairs Committee is Artur Talvik. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U101	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, We're talking about bill 720. First of all, the procedure in the lead committee between first and second readings. The draft law amending the Rural and Agricultural Market Organisation Act was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 15 October 2018. The draft provides for a mandate rule which gives the Minister responsible for the sector the possibility to impose a subsequent application, request for payment and other document only through the electronic e-service environment. It is still possible to submit an electronic application, but it is not possible to switch to electronic application only if necessary. In addition, the provisions of the Rural and Agricultural Market Act relating to the determination of the payments to be granted during the financial year and the resources to be granted shall be organised and specified. The first reading of the draft was completed on 24 October 2018. By the deadline for submitting amendments, 7 November at 5.15 p.m., no amendments were tabled by the political groups, members or other committees of the Riigikogu on the draft. The Commission also requested an opinion on the draft from the Estonian Chamber of Agriculture and Trade and the Estonian Farmers' Confederation, which did not submit opinions or proposals. Nor did these organisations express their wish to participate in the draft procedure. The Commission discussed the draft for the preparation of the second reading, including at its meeting on 13 November. Representatives of the Ministry of Rural Affairs took part in the meeting. No amendments to the draft have been finalised. The text of the draft has been reviewed by the language editor. The linguistic clarifications have been incorporated and underlined in the draft text. Procedural decisions and proposals of the lead committee. The Committee on Rural Affairs decided to submit the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 20 November, i.e. today, and to propose that the second reading be closed. It was also decided that if the second reading of the draft was completed, the draft would be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for the third reading by 5 December, and it was then proposed that the final vote on the draft be carried out. All the decisions were consensual. That's the story.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U102	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. That's the kind of thing that doesn't. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. The second reading of Bill 720 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U103	The next item is the second reading of Bill 712 of the Law on the Amendment of the Commercial Code and other Acts, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Urve Tiidus, member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U104	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The preparation for the second reading of the draft law amending the Commercial Code, the Non-profit Associations Act and the State Fees Act 712 took place in the Committee on Legal Affairs on 15 November. I recall that this draft concerns the opening of a bank account when a private limited company is set up, which is a prerequisite for the establishment of a private limited company in the ordinary course of business. And it's about non-residents. If Parliament approves the draft, Estonian non-residents will be able to use any bank or paying agency established in the European Economic Area to make a financial contribution to the share capital when establishing a private limited company. Kärt Karus, Adviser to the Department of Private Law of the Ministry of Justice, was invited to the Commission's debate on 15 November. No amendments to the draft act were received, but the Estonian Bar Association asked the Legal Affairs Committee to add one amendment to some of the draft laws already pending. The same bill 712 was suitable for this purpose. Counsellor of the Committee on Legal Affairs Linnar Liivamägi explained to the members of the committee the purpose of the amendment so that persons not complying with the Bar Act would not act as members of the Bar Association. This proposal is also supported by the Ministry of Justice. In fact, access to the Bar Association is subject to effective control of knowledge: the lawyer must be clear of all the positive rights. After this exam, knowledge will never be verified again. When adopting this amendment, a lawyer could be excluded from the Bar Association if he no longer meets the requirements laid down in the Bar Association Act. Members of the Commission also had questions. The answers revealed that if a lawyer no longer meets the requirements of the Bar Act, for example his or her capacity to act is limited, it is not possible to exclude a person from the Bar Act at the moment. The amendment is necessary in order to effectively monitor the members of the Bar Association. There was also the question of how this exclusion would take place. This decision is taken by the Board of Appeal as well as by the decision to become a member. There are already eight bases for excluding a person from the bar Association. They cover different behavioural and other aspects, but the Commission decided to support this proposal. Procedural decisions were also taken: a proposal for the second reading of draft 712 on the plenary agenda by today, 20 November, a proposal for the end of the second reading to be sent to third reading when the second one is closed in this Chamber today, and then a final vote on the draft. All these decisions were consensual. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U105	Questions for the waitress. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U106	Thank you, good Chairman. Good waitress! When we dealt with this draft at first reading, the Financial Supervision Authority was cautious about payment accounts according to the coordination table. Did the Commission also request further opinions from the Financial Supervision Authority in order not to repeat any possible errors related to money laundering?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U107	Thank you, Küllik's Hatter! No separate opinion has been requested. At least before the second reading, the Commission did not discuss it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-20_U108	The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Thank you very much, Urve Tiidus. There are no participants in the negotiations. Bill 712 second reading... Sorry, this is not over yet, because we have, despite all, amendments. There are two of them, and both are from the lead committee: the first and the second. We have examined the amendments. Second reading of Bill 712 is complete. Closure of the sitting at 1.12.
