ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. We will begin the Monday session of the 11th working week of the VIIIth plenary session. Transfer of pre-claims and enquiries. On behalf of the Government of the Republic, Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U2	Honourable Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching two draft laws today. Firstly, the draft law amending the Tobacco Act and the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity. Riina Sikkut, Minister of Health and Labour, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Secondly, the draft law amending the Courts Act and the Code of Criminal Procedure. Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, represents the Government of the Republic of Estonia in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U3	No more wishes. Two drafts were submitted, on the basis of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Incoming check, please! 75 members of the Riigikogu are present. Clarification of the agenda. Attention! The Committee on Social Affairs has proposed to remove the 27th item from the agenda of the Wednesday session of this working week, the second reading of the Bill 293 on Supplementation to the Law on the Organisation of Health Services, initiated by Mark Soosaare, Helmen Küti, Jüri Jaanson and Andres Metsoja, members of the Riigikogu. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U4	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. I have a bit of a problem on Wednesday's agenda, 2nd and 4th points. I understand that the drafts requiring a majority of membership are usually above, but in this case points 2 and 4 are clearly linked. If we adopt the implementing law first and do not know whether we are adopting the basic text, we will forget that nothing that has not yet been adopted can actually be implemented. Elik 4. agenda item should be changed to agenda item 2 or at least they should be one after the other so that we discuss the main text of the Personal Data Protection Act first and then discuss how to implement it. This is a substantive problem. There is also a small problem with the Chancellery of the Chancellor of Justice, but it is important in terms of content that we cannot discuss the implementation law until we have adopted the main text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U5	We have a custom, yes, first of all to put in place drafts that need a majority vote in favour of adoption in plenary. Do you have a suggestion?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U6	Yes, the specific proposal is very simple: in order to at least get over the "legally" issue, agenda items 2 and 4 should be exchanged so that the basic text of the Personal Data Protection Act, the so-called text of the law, can be adopted before the text of the Implementation Act. That would have solved it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U7	Got it. The Reform Party Group proposed that items 2 and 4 be replaced on the Wednesday agenda. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U8	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I'll look at the agenda for the week. It surprises me that for several weeks it has been that the rest of the days are almost completely empty, that we come here and we go right here, but Wednesday has been an insane number of points, now we have 33. Is that quite normal? Would it not be possible to share the agenda more evenly so that we do not have to get out of here until Wednesday in the middle of the night?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U9	Thank you. Interesting question before the end of the Riigikogu. It's pretty normal. Points 2 and 4 of the Wednesday agenda have been proposed by the Reform Party. Nobody's against it. Together with this amendment, I will vote on the agenda for the 11th working week of the 8th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. 67 members of the Riigikogu were in favour, 2 against and 6 abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U10	The first is an inquiry... Honourable Riigikogu, please pay attention! ... presented by Aivar Sõerd, Jürgen Ligi, Aivar Surva, Urve Tiidus, Taavi Rõivas, Arto Aas, Ants Laaneots, Enn Meri, Henn Põlluaas, Meelis Mälberg, Lauri Luik and Kalle Palling. On behalf of the heirs, Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U11	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, This week's agenda, which we confirmed a moment ago, will be the third reading of the state budget for next year. You all know that the state budget is the kind of document that is year on year I think I'm not exaggerating more and more difficult to understand and...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U12	Ladies and gentlemen, please listen to the speakers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U13	... there are 300 pages or more of text, numbers, any information. For example, the Ministry of Finance finds with the accuracy of the euro how much the cost of writing off the study loan of an employee of the State Forest Management Centre is reimbursed through the budget of the Ministry of Finance, but if we continue to look at the lines of the Ministry of Finance, we will see that there are 143 million allowances for Eesti Energia and there is no explanation there. The Minister of Finance has later explained this matter and said that it is a state budget provision for Eesti Energia, which finances three projects of Eesti Energia: investments in the distribution network, investments in renewable energy and investment in the construction of a new oil plant. This is becoming more and more interesting because Eesti Energia is the company with the largest majority shareholding in the state and one of the companies with the largest turnover. The company can finance its investments from capital markets. Bonds are even quoted. The European central banks have a so-called asset buy-in programme (it is about to end) and two of Estonia's assets are suitable for this: Elering's bonds and Eesti Energia's bonds. This shows that it is all about high-quality financial instruments, and Eesti Energia should not have any problem financing its investments with loan money, especially where we are now in a low interest rate situation. This is precisely the time when it is favourable to finance large investments with loan money, as interest is low. But we do not, we allocate money from the state budget to invest in Eesti Energia. On Wednesday, the state budget will be at third reading. We have spent almost two months discussing this allocation of 143 million euros from Eesti Energia. But the more we ask about it, the worse it gets. We have very simple questions for Minister Tõnis. In the opinion of the Minister as Eesti Energia's general meeting, is Eesti Energia's cash flow, own resources and credit capacity not sufficient to finance investments in 2019? As far as Auverre is concerned, an oil plant worth 200 million euros is concerned, even the Council has not yet taken decisions here, and according to the confirmation of Eesti Energia itself, whose management we met, the design of the project may be considered in the case of positive scenarios next year. Of course, we still want to know from the Minister how this EUR 143 million is distributed, how much of this EUR 143 million is meant to be invested in the distribution network, how much to finance renewable energy investments and how much to build a new oil plant. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U14	The question is answered by Finance Minister Toomas Tõniste. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U15	Good President, good heirs and those who are interested in this subject! You submitted an inquiry on 24 October, where you were interested in the state budget financing of Eesti Energia investments. I will answer the questions that have been asked. The first question: 'Does the Ministry of Finance consider that AS Eesti Energia's cash flows, own resources and credit capacity are not sufficient to finance investments in 2019 with own funds and loans? ' First of all, I would like to stress that any real contribution to the share capital of Eesti Energia requires a separate analysis, justification and also decisions. The share capital contribution to Eesti Energia in the state budget is not guaranteed to the company, but it creates the basis and opportunity to make such a decision if there is an appropriate investment and if there is a need for capital. Investment decisions may still be taken during this year, but mostly will be made in 2019. At the time they are made, the financing, including the contribution to equity, must be guaranteed for the entire investment period. Therefore, investments need to be viewed longer than only in 2019. Taking into account the long-term financial forecasts of the company and the limits of the financial ratios agreed with creditors, the expectations of the owner, including stable owner-income, the large investments in renewable energy, electricity grids and also the planned oil plant, and the feasibility of maintaining a reasonable margin of strength, it may be reasonable to further capitalise Eesti Energia by the owner. The second question: 'At the meeting with the Special Committee on State Budget Control, the management of Eesti Energia announced that Auverre plans an oil plant with a value of 200 million euros. According to the optimistic timetable, the construction should take place in 2021 to 2022. Eesti Energia management explains that construction preparation works are planned in 2019. Why is it necessary to co-finance the cost of ordering the project from the 2019 state budget and why is Eesti Energia unable to finance it with its own resources? ' In general, companies plan their activities in advance for several years, especially in the case of investments on a scale such as the construction of a possible new Enefiti oil plant. It would be irresponsible for the company to take a decision on the realisation of an investment project without the financing solution necessary to cover it being put in place and firm, from the adoption of the investment decision to the completion of the investee. In addition, in negotiations with creditors, it is necessary to demonstrate the ownership's commitment to co-financing the project. Therefore, the oil plant is also one of the investments taken into account in the planning of the additional capital needs to be used in the event of a real need. Even if no additional share capital is actually needed for investment in an oil plant in 2019, the current plans are expected to take a final decision in 2019 as to whether this investment will come in the near future. Question 3: The amount of EUR '143 million in the 2019 draft state budget is, in turn, compounded. We ask: in what amounts is 143 million euros distributed between investments in the Eesti Energia distribution network, investments in renewable energy and investment in preparation for the construction of a new oil plant? " Both the company and the Ministry of Finance have relied on corporate financing as a single whole and have not mentioned the amount distributed between specific projects. The financing needs of each particular project depend on the best total investment known at the time of decision, Eesti Energia's own resources and the willingness of creditors to invest in projects. On the basis of current estimates, the most important investments planned are: basic investments to improve the reliability of the electricity distribution network in the electricity sector, which is EUR 50 million per year, plus investments in the so-called last mile project of EUR 68 million over the period 2019 to 2022 and EUR 120 million over the lifetime of the project, of which the State contribution covers EUR 20 million. In the field of renewable energy, both the owner's expectations and Eesti Energia's strategy foresee a significant increase, and by 2022, Eesti Energia wants to increase the amount of electricity from renewable and alternative sources to 40%. In order to reach this objective, investments in wind energy alone are planned for a total amount of up to EUR 350 million. As you have already pointed out in question 2, the estimated investment in the oil plant is about EUR 200 million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U16	Questions for the Minister. Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U17	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! It is quite clear, as you yourself said, that it does not matter whether we decide to build a new oil plant this year or next year. In any case, it will not be built next year, even according to the most optimistic plan. This, in turn, means that if you say that money is needed in the budget for next year in order to perhaps start building an oil plant, that does not make much sense because, as you said, the oil plant will not be built at that time. Wouldn't it be fairer and more correct to say that this provision is actually needed in order for Eesti Energia to be able to take the dividend within the maximum range, so that it can be put on a bit of a balance with this already inclined budget? Or are you denying that it is really the need for the dividend of Eesti Energia that led to this specific provision?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U18	Thank you. It is not a precondition for the dividend to be decided, nor can it be an increase in share capital, as I tried to explain in my replies, about why this possibility is provided for in the budget. I very much hope that explanation was sufficient.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U19	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I generally share the understanding of the inquisitors that thought should be given to own funds or borrowing options, especially when interest is low. However, I am still disturbed by the aspect of this approach that we are essentially booking money from the state budget without knowing if it is really needed. The Riigikogu has been placed in the role of giving a bill of lading. You have also been a member of the Riigikogu. Would it not be fairer and clearer to come to the Riigikogu with either a separate decision or an additional budget if this need is obvious and there is a desire to make this decision? Regardless of whether I support this decision or not, it seems to me that such a course would be much more correct.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U21	Thank you for your question. Yes, today we have booked this possibility in the budget, but the general rule is that investments must first be approved by the Estonian Energy Council and the required rate of return must be guaranteed. If the investment requires an increase in the share capital, the return on this capital injection will be assessed separately by the Ministry of Finance, and if the result of the analysis is positive, then the shareholder, the Minister of Finance in the case of Eesti Energia, will submit a reasoned proposal to the Government of the Republic for a share capital contribution. Indeed, the investments planned are large and, on this point, it is perhaps understandable that we have this possibility in the budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U22	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U23	Mr. Minister! It's annoying when you read some kind of speech out of the paper. The focus of this inquiry is, in fact, on the question of whether the government, by pumping Estonian Energy out of dividends, has failed to compensate for the ratios that it is now going to make up for with an investment promise that does not have the content and to correct the ratios that it itself has screwed up. Would you please disprove that opinion? That's the real point of asking. I have one of the materials of Eesti Energia that I have not gotten into since it has just been sent to me. But I see here, in comparison to this year, the multiplication of the dividend to a level that I have never seen before, 140 million, essentially by 2021, etc. In short, at first sight, the RES provides for such a dividend. That's the answer. You've drained the company's money, and now you're making this investment promise because it doesn't undermine the budget balance, but the dividend will improve it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U24	Thank you for your question. The limit values for the agreed financial ratios of creditors are certainly one of the reasons why we have foreseen this possibility in the budget. When we are talking about the dividend, next year there will be or hopes of getting 57 million euros in dividends from Eesti Energia. Of what was foreseen or decided in the spring of the country's budget strategy, it is about EUR 13 million less. The expected dividends for the following years will be about 68 million in 2020 for Eesti Energia, 103 million in 2021 and 118 million in 2022.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U25	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U26	Thank you. Dear Minister, It is very nice that we have now learned how much the country wants to pump out the dividend from Eesti Energia. I realized that these amounts would double by 2020. But I'm still gonna ask. You didn't answer our third question. How is this EUR 143 million distributed? This amount is known to you, you've calculated it for 143 million. This amount shall consist of the additions. As has emerged from your speech, 50 million are intended to be invested in the distribution network. You don't need money next year to build a new oil plant. Let me get this straight. Nearly 90 million are planned for renewable energy investments. Would you be so kind as to tell me exactly how it divides? The Riigikogu has the right to receive this information because we are going to approve the budget on Wednesday.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U27	Thank you. As I said, the Ministry of Finance has relied on corporate financing as a single whole and has not so specifically shared these amounts between projects. But yes, as I said nicely in my reply, basic investments in the electricity grid will be 50 million next year, plus investments in the last mile project, 68 million. In the renewable energy sector, over the next few years there will be a total investment of EUR 350 million and the planned investment in the oil plant is today known to be around 200 million. Yes, next year, I also believe, it is certainly not going to be built, but it can already be designed, and by the time the decision to build a factory is made, it is very good to know also the source of financing.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U28	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U29	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. Let Jürgen Ligi continue with a quite straightforward question I will now ask more specifically. You mentioned several times that one of the three investment sites is renewable energy investments and that there will be EUR 350 million in total over two years. I'm just asking for interest. As a general meeting, you will certainly know where these renewable energy objects are and whether there are new sea wind parks among them.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U30	Thank you. This part of the potential investment portfolio was accompanied by the purchase of Four Energies. As a second part, Toots' wind farm has been upstairs, which is in the maze of litigation. Once again, these are all potential and potential investments. That doesn't mean that next year we're gonna use everything in 143 million, maybe most of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U31	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U32	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! As the issue concerns very clearly the procedure of the state budget, would you still recall the principle that this very narrow table, which, if I remember correctly, is only on five pages, will be reproduced in the explanatory memorandum. Why do we not see in detail the distribution of all the costs and benefits of Eesti Energia in the explanatory memorandum, for example? On what grounds or considerations are those items that we see in the explanatory memorandum?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U33	Thank you. The explanatory memorandum has been drawn up on the basis of previous practice. The proposals and comments made in this Chamber of the Riigikogu in previous years try to make it clearer and more transparent every year. Unfortunately, every time new people come here, these perceptions and thoughts change, and what maybe was first changed in the same way, will be changed in one year or two. It is certainly in everyone's interest that the budget be as readable as possible and, on this point, perhaps this criticism is really correct, so that this line could have been written out better.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U34	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U35	Thank you. I guess this debate is a little bit bizarre and comic right now. We all actually understand that these moves were needed to get closer to the budgetary balance, and there really is no investment plan. I dare say this also because Eesti Energia currently has a very professional board and council, who himself heard about the news more afterwards. This desire for such transactions has not come from within the company and the whole sector is looking at the light smiling that is currently happening. I'll ask you this way. You're an entrepreneur yourself. In your company, would you do that by putting 100 million in equity without knowing if there is any need for investment or, in fact, if there are no plans, but by putting in 100 million in equity to take it out as a dividend in a couple of years?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U36	Thank you. I'll start from the back. As owner, in any case, if there are plans to make investments and if there are any specific visions, the fact that you are willing to make this investment is, in my view, self-evident. The story that the leaders of Eesti Energia, as I understand it, know nothing about these investments and somebody so-called tells them what to do... Well, I'd like to see those drivers who talk like that! [[A voice from the hall.]] The financing transaction, yes, I do not know how it is reflected in the budget, it may not really be proposed to the Riigikogu, this scheme how someone should finance something. But in any case, these investment objects have come from them, it's approved in their strategy. If we are talking about trying to take out more dividends with this so-called financing transaction, then it is known that next year it is planned to take 57 million dividends from Eesti Energia, but now we are talking about planned investments or financing transactions of 143 million. When it comes to the fact that we wanted to withdraw it as a dividend, the amount of the dividend would have been 143 million.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U37	Peep Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U38	Thank you. Good waitress! We learned how much will be withdrawn from Estonian Energy under the RES to balance the state budget in the next four years. Suddenly you are so good and you tell us how much money will be allocated from the state budget through the RES or the RES for the next four years. We know only how to allocate to 2019, but what is the national budget funding for investments in 2020, 2021 and 2022?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U39	Thank you. If we speak in the context of Eesti Energia, the same 43 million could be transferred to 2020 or 2021. So that doesn't mean that every year it's going to increase by that amount to make use of everything next year. I have just tried many times to say that this is a potential readiness when it comes to making these investment decisions. If we are talking at all about our dividend policy, yes, as before, there was no major change in the dividend policy set out in the country's budgetary strategy this spring either. The order of magnitude we hope to receive from dividends is between 116 million and 180 million each year.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U40	Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U41	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! When you come into this hall, it is actually from the air that you are suffering in the remote control and would like to say that this 143 million will actually be placed in the state budget in order to balance the budgetary strategy of the country for the next five years. Maybe you're telling us, I think you'll understand, and everyone in this Chamber has realized that these investments will not be made next year, they are potential for the future. You can make excuses that are identical or different. But what was the difference between the initial forecast and the reality in the country's budget strategy when you went into that office? How much did you have to ask about Eesti Energia five years after the dividend forecast, compared to what your own conservative assessment as a general meeting would have been? Is that 100, 200, 300 million? What's that?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U42	Thank you. When we speak in the context of the 2019 state budget, the amount of the dividend of Eesti Energia decreased over the years, I dare say, about 50 million. If we are talking about suffering, then perhaps I am really suffering here, because I do not want to start talking about how a government led by the Reform Party used this scheme to get more dividends and to balance the budget. These are perhaps different topics; today, however, this was certainly not an objective.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U43	No further questions. Thank you, Minister of Finance. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the heirs, Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U44	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, The Minister of Finance, if I may say so, ended up on his own level. He, of course, is not responsible for anything that has taken place during his presence in the government coalition, he can simply point out that something happened, but he does not explain anything, because he probably does not understand what happened either. The answers to the question came out, of course, what we thought would come up with: it is the most genuine financial laundering. This means that a financial transaction is drawn into the budget, which allows the money to be allocated, in this case to Eesti Energia, but does not create a problem for the cost, i.e. the balance of the budget. On the other hand, the dividend is disproportionately withdrawn. The references to the past are simply uneducated in this case, but I can also describe these references. Investing and taking dividends at the same time is not a sin in itself; that is a homemade thing, but there is a big difference between whether or not investment really is. The prospect of a dividend is always stable in the budget. One honest finance minister wants dividends to be paid on a stable basis, but he will, of course, look at the financial figures of each company, the ability to pay the dividend and the investment plans, and then he will say: this year we can take so much dividends from this company, so much from that company. This is also the case with Eesti Energia. As far as the past is concerned, I'll take care of it. Elering was taken from once, it was probably 2010, well-dividended, even the superdividend was the one that did not improve the balance of the budget, but created liquidity. I'm guessing it was 2010. But there was the reason that Eesti Energia and Elering went to divorce, first, and second, the financial crisis in Europe continued. We still had to cut the budget, we cut it by 2% or 3% of GDP, other countries have only had to do it in the worst years, after a 9% cut in 2009. Sometimes we did it because we took the dividend and put the money away when the Auvere power plant was built. It was probably 2012. That's normal. Thomas Tõniste, that's normal! You put the money in, you build the power plant, but you still take the dividend. I hope you get more dividends in the future. These things can be kept separate, you've only wrapped them up for the purpose of drawing a bigger budget. We didn't do that. The evidence is, of course, how investment in the future was described here, i.e. investments in the oil plant and renewable energy, as I understood. Both of them will stretch, neither will happen next year, but next year, the expectation of the dividend will quadruple. I'm reading out, maybe I'm wrong about the last number, taking almost 60 million dividends, if this year's plan was to take 15 million. It's a quadruple. Now what? Maybe there's an investment coming in 2020. Then there's more at the same time, then there's 70 million. Pretty likely a year later, these big investments, oil plants, and things will come. Then it's double that, 140 million. Next, there will be about 120 million in 2022. That's where I didn't count the last number, maybe it's 117. It is obvious that you are multiplying dividends only because you needed the RES to write the budget balance that you have promised. But at the same time, you book a financial transaction, which is a seemingly cashless transaction, without cost in the budget, and it can be washed away by taking out a dividend for the sake of balance. That's what you've done. Thank you, Minister, for proving this to be what we thought it would be.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U45	The members of the Riigikogu have no further wish to negotiate; the minister does not have any more. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U46	An inquiry. The performers are Arto Aas, Aivar Sõerd, Urve Tiidus, Jürgen Ligi, Jüri Jaanson, Lauri Luik, Liina Kersna, Ants Laaneots, Peep Aru, Aivar Surva, Valdo Randpere, Mati Raidma, Urmas Kruuse, Kalle Laanet, Madis Milling, Kristen Michal, Meelis Mälberg, Yoko Alender, Heidy Purga, Taavi Rõivas and Maris Lauri. Arto Aas, on behalf of the heirs, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U47	Honourable Riigikogu! It is true that about a month ago, on 13 November, our group members submitted an inquiry to the Minister of Culture regarding the very serious confusion in the field of the Ministry of Culture. Basically, the theatre, which represented Estonia most internationally, stopped its activities with just a week's notice, and in addition, budget discipline is out of hand in several other cultural institutions. Perhaps the most important topic for us is the termination of Theatre NO99. I would remind you that in 2012, when the Foundation Theatre NO99 was founded, the aim was to enrich Estonian national culture, promote Estonian cultural and theatre thinking, preserve Estonian language, actively integrate Estonian culture and theatre art into the European cultural space, as well as participate in contemporary cultural processes as an equal artistic partner. With our own help and initiative, this theatre was created, primarily with the support of Urmas Paet. We have always been great fans and admirers of this theatre, even at those moments when this theatre has been very critical of us, at times even cruel. But we have appreciated their artistic contribution to the Estonian cultural lock. Now, six years later, there's a big mess around the theatre. It is incomprehensible and incomprehensible whether the foundation's activities have been completed or whether only the theatre's activities have been completed. The causes of the theater's cessation have been understood. It has become unclear whether the confusion is due to a financial situation or something else. We know that the theatre has had losses in the past: EUR 116000 in 2016, EUR 85000 in 2017. This is the first part of our inquiry. The other side concerns other cultural institutions and their financial problems. The Ministry of Culture's control of the budgets of cultural institutions has been very poor in our opinion, and the Ministry of Culture is represented in the council of the Estonian Concert, the Russian Theatre and also the Estonian Drama Theatre. In total, we have a number of questions divided into seven blocks. First of all, when exactly did the Minister of Culture know about the termination of Theatre NO99's theatre activities, what were the steps taken by the Minister resulting from the decision of the artistic leader, when was the government office informed and when did the Prime Minister learn about this? Secondly, we want to know what alternative options the Ministry considered in order to continue the activities of Theatre NO99. For example, was the possibility of launching a competition to find a new artistic leader for the theatre considered? We're also interested in what happens to the theatre staff. The third question concerning NO is what was the financial situation and visitability. There are also four sets of questions about other cultural institutions. What is the financial situation at the Russian Theatre in SA and what is not exactly due to the EUR 130000 deficit? For what reasons was the Russian Theatre's budget discipline violated by the SA and is this deficit linked to the operating grant of the performance agencies? The next set of questions concerns the Estonian Concert and the Estonian Drama Theatre. Is the weak budget discipline granted by the Minister with the promise to level the budget minus EUR 300000 for the next year's budget of the Estonian Concert also applicable to the Estonian Drama Theatre, where the budget minus EUR 400000, and to the Russian Theatre, where the budget minus EUR 130000? Is it the responsibility of the Minister to make such promises to use the budget for next year, or is this the role of the Riigikogu? How would patching up current budget gaps with next year's budget line improve the theatre situation in the long term? Finally, we want to know whose decision designates the Councils of Cultural Institutions, which have not sufficiently verified the financial activities of the institutions, as outlined in the inquiry. We ask the Minister for answers to the situation in cultural institutions. We believe that financial matters must be in order to be sustainable, transparent and well-funded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U48	Indrek Saar, Minister of Culture, responds to the inquiry.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U49	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Dear Riigikogu! Good questioners! The heirs asked seven questions, which in turn consisted of several questions. For the sake of clarity, I will read the questions separately and then answer them. First set of questions. 'When exactly did the Minister of Culture find out about the termination of the theatre activities of SA Theatre NO99? " It was on October 30, when I met Tiit Ojasoo and Ene-Liis Semper, and they informed me that the theater no longer saw a chance to continue. 'What were the steps of the Minister as a result of the decision of the artistic leader? ' I took note of the information and told the board member that further steps would be taken in cooperation with the Council. 'When was the decision notified to the cabinet? On October 31, 2018, the NO99 creative collective sent a public address that did not see the possibility of continuing NO99 theatre activities. The Government became aware of this address at the same time as the rest of the public, and the Government was ordered by the Ministry of Culture SA Theatre NO99 one month later, 30 November 2018. 'Is it true that the Prime Minister learned the news the day it appeared in the press? ' I do not know what claim you are referring to, but in any case there is no reason to doubt that statement, in my opinion. Second set of questions. 'What alternative options did the Ministry consider in order to continue the activities of Theatre NO99, for example, to launch a competition to find a new artistic director for the theatre? ' Considering the basis and creative structure of NO99 theatre, it was not possible or conceivable that a new artistic leader would be sought and continued to act under the name NO theater. This would have been a completely incomprehensible solution for our own dear audience as well as internationally. 'What about the theatre staff? ' The termination of the Foundation shall result in the termination of all employment contracts in accordance with the law. All social guarantees to which employees are entitled will be guaranteed and fulfilled. Third set of questions. 'What is the actual financial situation of SA Theatre NO99? " The real situation is what has been said before: the theatre worked and managed economically; the theatre has neither debts nor deferred payments. 'What was Theatre NO99's visitability in 2016, 2017, 2018? ' In 2016, 23,331 people visited the NO theatre, 18883 people in 2017, 9251 people visited the theatre in the first ten months of 2018. Fourth set of questions. 'What financial situation is the Russian Drama Theatre in the SA and what exactly is missing because of the EUR 130000 deficit? " Margus Allikmaa, Managing Director of the Russian Theatre, has assured the Ministry of Culture that the theatre is in a satisfactory state, that the costs are kept under control and that the earning of own income has improved. This year's ticket sale is better than a year ago, the theatre works normally, gives performances and brings out new productions. 'For what reasons was the Russian Drama Theatre in the SA violated budgetary discipline? ' The Russian Theatre Foundation has indeed made mistakes in forecasting its budget, and we expect a new leader to avoid such errors. We realise that the situation cannot be settled overnight, but we hope that the right decisions will quickly lead to a positive change and an improvement in the economic situation. 'Is the deficit linked to the support for the performance? ' The deficit is not linked to the amount or alleged lack of support. Thus the board member and artistic director of the theatre have confirmed in Sirp's newspaper in September last year: 'The state's financial support for the theatre is very polite, the Russian theatre has a beautiful and freshly renovated building in the centre of Tallinn, and all the necessary halls are available. Now all we have to do is do more work and make more money. ' The deficit can be linked to costs that are still too high or too low. Unfortunately, at one point in the Russian Theatre, both of the circumstances collapsed and the theatre did not react quickly enough in this situation. Question 5: "Is the weak budget discipline granted by the Minister with the promise to level the budget minus 300000€ at the expense of 2019 at the Estonian Concert SA also applicable to the Estonian Drama Theatre, whose budget minus 400000€ and the Estonian Drama Theatre, whose budget minus 130000€? Does the Minister have the competence to make such promises to use the next year's budget before the adoption of the 2019 state budget in the Riigikogu? ' Pursuant to § 60 of the Basic Law on the State Budget, the Minister may make financial commitments for the coming financial years 50% of the resources of the Ministry's government's respective expenditure ceiling for the coming financial year. It fits in very nicely. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Estonian Drama Theatre is not about budgeting, as we understand it from the peasant logic, but about the result of the 2017 financial year, which is due to depreciation costs. I think you should be aware of how this happens, too, if you have any insight into the annual accounts of an institution. While the property is highly valued and is not actively invested in it, depreciation costs are, as a rule, always higher than the positive result earned by all such institutions from own resources. Question 6: "How does patching up current budget gaps at the expense of 2019 improve the theatre situation in the long term? ' The aim of all these steps is to give theatres the opportunity to make the necessary changes and to ensure sustainability. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in order to improve the situation of cultural institutions, including theatres, we have increased the minimum wage of a cultural worker by almost 80% over the last four years and also increased the overall salary fund. The next year's budget also provides for a €2 million repair fund for public authorities and public foundations whose buildings are not managed by the RKAS. This also slightly reduces the apparent minus of this depreciation. Question 7: 'Whose decision designates the formations of the boards of cultural institutions mentioned in the inquiry (to be mentioned separately) who have not exercised sufficient control over the financial activities of the institutions? 'The Boards of Foundations shall be appointed by the Founder's representative. Paragraph 81 (4) of the State Assets Act provides that if the founder's right to appoint more than one member to the Board of the foundation established by the State is to be determined by the founder's right, at least one of them shall be elected by the State on the proposal of the Minister of Finance. We have also implemented this practice with regard to the Councils of Cultural Institutions, which have been identified in the inquiry. We understand the point of this provision in such a way that it aims to strengthen the protection of the state's interests by increasing the competence of the Council in the financial field. This is also confirmed by the analogy of the companies included in the explanatory memorandum to the State Assets Act. In order to increase the competence of the councils in the field of financial and supervisory matters, the obligation to select at least one member of the board on a proposal from the Minister of Finance is set as a new basis for foundations. Yeah. That was the answer to the questions you asked. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U50	Questions for the Minister. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U51	Thank you. Mr. Minister! The financial culture of cultural institutions has not been the best in other times, but the responsibility of each minister is, in fact, to impose it, less to talk about cost increases and to be strict. But I ask you about the budget of the Estonian Concert, which is, of course, one of the favorite topics of the day. This EUR 300000 minus this year, which is intended to be covered by revenue for the following year, is going to put a total of EUR 600000 on the budget for the following year, as I understand it. If I'm wrong, fix me. But in any case, most of the budget of the Estonian Concert is likely to be fixed costs and the costs of the concert are 1 million. If you remove 300,000 out of 1 million and put the pressure in the next year, how do you expect to cope with these variable costs at the Estonian Concert? After all, this 9 million is largely fixed costs.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U52	This minus was largely created in 2017 and could not be covered in 2018, although it was allegedly planned. This, in turn, created a problem after the summer period, when it was clear that the revenues had not been as high as planned, and the costs might have been higher. This, however, accounts for about 3% of the budget of the Estonian Concert. Yes, but we must look at the budget of the Estonian Concert as a whole. This not only concerns the concert activity directly, but it concerns all the management of the Estonian Concert, we need to look at where it is possible to withdraw 3% from the cost side, or we need to look at how it is possible to generate revenue so that what is actually forecast is received. This is the concern of the management of the Estonian Concert and the ability to implement the budget must be monitored by the Estonian Concert Council. The minister certainly should not be involved in micromanagement, or run by hand. If the Ministry of Culture has started to do this in recent history, you can find examples if it has been done, then there has always been some bullshit because the roles have gone wrong. This certainly cannot be effective because there are over 50 agencies in the Ministry of Culture. If the minister were to lead them alone, I cannot imagine what the result would be, not to mention that it would be contrary to the idea of all laws.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U53	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U54	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! We were asking about budgetary discipline here, but I'd like to expand this whole topic of funding for theatres, because the story of NO theatre has given us a reason. I can understand the artistic reasons, if the troupe stops, but if we put this into context, this is a public-owned foundation, does this practice pose a risk for the future? In addition to artistic leaders, these theatres employ many people. Are such theatres justified by the form of a state-owned foundation? Can the same fate be expected for the workers of the drama theatre and other Estonian theatres? What's your comment?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U55	Absolutely not! We all understand that the creation of Theatre NO99 followed a little different principles. If we look at the general theatre network formed by foundations established with the state or state and local government, especially when we are talking about regional theatres, it is clear that they cannot be linked to a single artistic vision. They must provide a repertoire from the cradle to the grave and wall to the wall and also be able to ensure continuity. They cannot take such artistic risks in this sense that one day would lead to their closure. In any case, their consistency must be ensured. Theatre NO99 had been established, just as the representative of the heirs read out, clearly stating that the activities of this theatre were limited in time. NO99's whole philosophy was that it was a so-called countdown, and every new project dropped the number. There is nothing so special about the artistic association of this theatre that came to an end a little earlier than the end of these numbers. It always happens in life that you make some kind of plan, but then you have to be ready to correct it. This certainly does not concern the vast majority of the Estonian theatre network, the purpose of which is to ensure that as many people as possible have access to the theatre, covering the whole of Estonia. But as far as financial discipline is concerned, I come back somewhat to what Jürgen Ligi referred to earlier, of course, any economic entity, regardless of what it does, has a responsibility to manage its budget sustainably. I have been following this principle all along, and I think it must continue to be the case in the future. I would remind you that the Ministry of Culture has over 50 foundations. If you think about the state of recent years, can you say that you are genuinely responding that you really have a serious concern that cultural institutions are not sustainable? Most of them have delivered excellent results, with all possible performances either stable or even increasing.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U56	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U57	Thank you. I wanted to make it clear that there are, however, substantive reasons for calculating depreciation, and we cannot say that the disadvantages arising from it are apparent. Try not to deal with depreciation for 20 years, see how apparent it is in the end. Pushing or hiding these concerns into the future is actually stupid and shortsighted. I'd like to come back to the Estonian Concert. The stories that we have read about the finances and affairs of the Estonian Concert through the media are still quite perverse, if not to say scandalous. I think the politician should have resigned or dealt with the criminal charges he had received a long time ago, if he had acted in the same way or given the same answers as the Estonian Concert seemed, it was customary. How do you deal with this mentality and these behaviors? You are, I admit, very smoothly cleared out of these problems, but there should still be some change in the light of these news.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U58	First of all, I would like to remind you that there has been a significant change in the management of the entire Estonian Concert of the Foundation. At the Estonian Concert there is a new council with a completely new composition, which will continue to take into account the commitment that we have put before us, so that there will certainly be a member of this council, as proposed by the Minister of Finance. The new Council of six has recently been appointed and has begun to work. The task of this council is certainly to solve the financial concerns that the Estonian Concert faces, the head of the Estonian Concert must be found, because the contract of employment of today's leader ends at the end of January, and this council can certainly ask more generally what is the role of the Estonian Concert in organising Estonian musical life. I think that the role of any such council is also to look at the broader picture. But the Council has only recently gathered. I have no reason to believe that they will not take their work seriously, but it will certainly take them a little time to agree their plans and set their goals. As far as real estate issues are concerned, of course, the former Chairman of the RKAS Board could discuss at length how the RKAS works and whether this is the most effective way of managing state assets. As life shows, this is often not the case, and it involves a lot of waste. We could also talk for quite a while about how we have reached the point that, just as the RAAS takes over one or the other institution, the fixed costs are about to increase. We can discuss whether it is an effective way or whether it is more effective to hand over all these services to the RKAS, which often does not understand what the specifics of one or the other institution are and wants to make a profit, in addition to everything. This is probably a discussion place in turn.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U59	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U60	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You have already touched a huge deficit of EUR 300000 here, and you have certainly thoroughly analysed the reasons why such a deficit of EUR 300000 could still occur. Where were these reasons, and what is this deficit made up of? I look forward to a more thorough and disbanded picture.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U61	You must ask the head of the foundation and, if necessary, the board of directors what details it is made up of. According to my memory, the head of the foundation has also explained to the public that where they were too optimistic about income and where costs, i.e. mainly production costs, went beyond what was planned. As I said, this is why the foundation has a council, which is appointed by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, for the Council to draw up a sustainable budget and monitor the work of the board. I'm sure the Minister of Culture shouldn't be dealing with a micromanager. However, as regards whether the Ministry of Culture has received sufficient information about whether the accounts are realistic in the future, I say that the Audit Committee of the Estonian Concert Foundation has gathered several times in the autumn, it has analysed the state of play and made its proposals that have been taken into account in the budget for next year. I have no reason to believe that the audit committee, the Council and the Governing Board together will not be able to make an adequate budget for the financial year 2019.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U62	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U63	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, According to you, Theatre NO99's financial situation was either good or satisfactory. However, in May of the year ending, or somewhere in the area, half of the technical staff from the theatre was made up: make-up makers, costumers, stage technicians. Was there a discussion with the director of the theater about why the big layoff took place? Is redundancy a good financial situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U64	Thank you! The Council informed me of the changes made in the spring, that they were looking at their cost side. As the theatre performances had decreased in volume, it was reasonable that the board and the board reviewed what was the cost base, which would be carried out under conditions where revenue is clearly less predictable. As a result of these changes, the budget will also be fully sustainable.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U65	Peep Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U66	Thank you. Good minister! It is probably right that the Minister of Culture will not be able to delve into the activities of all 50 foundations or agencies and make decisions in financial terms. But I hope that the financial papers were examined very thoroughly when the proposal from the institution to bring forward next year's money was received. Has the Minister of Culture taken on another major problem: are not the good people of NO theatre, who together could not create a new one, lost to Estonian culture?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U67	I have no reason to believe that these people will be lost to Estonian culture. I think many of them will surely face creative challenges in several Estonian cultural institutions. Maybe some of them will use this opportunity to look around the world. Given the international nature of the NO theatre, there would be nothing surprising about it. The fact that creatively complements itself from time to time outside Estonia also applies to professional development. I very much hope that these people will all find work and bread in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U68	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U69	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You said that there was a theatre in Estonia that dared to take creative risks. I came to the conclusion that the others would not take them. You also talked about the theatre network, regional reach, etc. However, I would ask you to comment on this a little bit. In my opinion, Estonia has very seriously innovative theatres and risks are also taken. You do not, in principle, share Estonian theatres into innovative, risky theatres and more conservative theatres?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U70	Thank you, my good colleague, for pointing out when my use of the word was inaccurate. I certainly don't share them that way, but if we're talking about foundations established by the state, the only one who's ever had such a time definition written into the name has been Theatre NO99. This is not the case with other foundations established by the state. I can't imagine any of them actually shutting down today. I imagine some stage might be over, and people can change, as usual, but I can't imagine that they're essentially gonna stop doing what they're doing. In this respect, I particularly agree with you that Estonia's theatre picture is very, very diverse. Especially when it comes to a country with a small population, the diversity that is in our theatrical picture is impressive, no matter what we compare ourselves to in the world. It is certainly also part of our national identity and our theatre traditions, but it has been possible because we have made theatre in very different formats. These are foundations set up by the state, a public-law national opera that guarantees the foundation, and then there are a number of theatres working in different formats, who also, in one way or another, receive support from the state budget, either directly or indirectly, and create more and more of this diversity. I think our picture is very good in that sense. We hope that in the future, the theatres will continue to be offered work peace.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U71	Thank you, Minister of Culture Indrek Saar! I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the heirs, Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U72	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, To tell you the truth, I didn't intend to speak. I wasn't the initiator of this inquiry either. But after listening to the Minister of Culture, I have some comments to make. After all, every minister of culture has his or her cultural preferences and his or her cultural policy preferences. He's got to give speeches, and he's got to push his hands a lot, and he's got to go to the shows. In that sense, they're all the same. But most of the ministers of culture, not to say: in the case of the rest of them, you sense that they are also members of the government, they care about some kind of government agreement, not just tearing the blanket, and they are also responsible for the institutions. What is the more burdensome part of the work of the Minister of Culture alongside these more pleasant things? Still in charge of these institutions, of some kind of financial separation and of how that money is used. After all, the focus of today's inquiry was on financial discipline. Although, as I suggested here in a friendly manner, over time there have been problems with financial culture in cultural institutions, but I have never seen such a wash of hands in relation to this problem, as is the case with Indrek Saarel. I've heard in the government and alongside the government how he's willing to get any kind of money for culture that might speak in his favour, tie up some percentage of his budget, take money from security or education, from whomever it is mechanically. By that, he thinks his work is done. Actually, that's not the case. In fact, a member of the government must show solidarity with all areas, build systems that function in the same way logically, be equal among the same and certainly be responsible for its own bodies. Twice we heard how two versions of a micromanagement or micromanagement were here, the Minister of Culture should not be responsible, but, frankly, he must be responsible. If there are 60 institutions directly established by the State, the issues on this subject are fully relevant. We were not very intimidating with these questions, but there could have been some kind of state-manly response, some general assessment of how problems could be overcome. Indrek Saar has always been the one who justifies the fact that the share of culture in the budget must continue to grow unstoppably. That is nice, isn't it, although this part has long been the largest part of the European Union, as a percentage of GDP, and although we have the largest number of museums, most of the theatres, we continue to praise more and more! But somewhere has started to rumble. That's the problem. So this signal that we keep growing numerically and in volume, in fact, I'm afraid, has been one of the reasons why cultural institutions are in such a poor state as the press says they are, and that could have been recognised by the Minister of Culture today. My specific question was about the popular Estonian Concert. In fact, he didn't try to answer. If this most scandalous case, which has been most dissected and apparently has a role to play in the cooking of this scandal, was not the thing to pay attention to and answer to, then it is still a bad thing. My question was, if you round the numbers, next. 9 million is indeed the budget of the Estonian Concert, but most of it is probably fixed costs that are not simply cut. One million goes only to concert activities, it sounds like variable expenses. I do not know the structure of the budget for all the agencies and, in this sense, my statement was in the form of a question, but if he is now going to say that this 300000 is 3% of the budget, this point is not currently working. The second time the same answer, this point of 3% is not working because it is a matter of percentage of variable costs. This minus of EUR 300000 cannot be compared to 9 million but must be compared to 1 million. In my opinion, this 300000 has a very strong link to the variable expenditure of EUR 1 million, which is specifically mentioned in the budget for concert activities... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U73	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U74	... plus the pressure being transferred to the new budget. If we've spent 9.3 million this year, if we're rounding it a little, but next year, we're going to have, figuratively speaking, some kind of growth there's probably at 8,7 million, then this problem is bigger than before. We could have talked about that. I wish I could have told you we had other things here. There is no need to talk about 9 million, but to admit that there has been a problem, it is the right thing to write about bad discipline, double costs, and that we have these thoughts. After all, it was the minister who said that (or were his subordinates) that we would allow it to be EUR 300000 from next year's budget. The next year is therefore 300,000 fewer and this year 300,000 are already missing. A slightly more meaningful answer could have been focused on this, and I think most of the inquisitors would have been satisfied and would not have spoken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U75	The members of the Riigikogu have no further wish to speak, but the Minister does. Please, Minister of Culture Indrek Saar!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U76	Thank you for your time. To clarify Jürgen Ligi's thematic development, I would say that this minus occurred largely in 2017, and in 2018 it had to be cleared up, but failed. This must now be done in 2019. Everyone must have the opportunity to correct their mistakes, and it must be done not at the expense of others, that we go and take this money from somewhere, collect it from others, and run to the government to ask for money from the reserve, but that all this activity also has a certain pedagogical effect. We have to get our own budget straight. I very much believe that there must be responsibility, and all these bodies and their leaders and governing bodies must be responsible for ensuring that budgetary discipline is also respected. As far as it is concerned that we are wasting the most on culture in Europe, which Jürgen Ligi was trying to claim here, that is not the case. Let's look at the data. Circa 1% of the GDP that the Estonian state spends on culture is nothing unique in the world. Several European countries support culture in the same order of magnitude. Given Estonia's small size, this percentage could also be higher. Yeah, I'm gonna keep protecting it. I can't imagine how the Minister of Culture, as a member of the government, couldn't do that. He must stand up for his field and fight with all the means he has as a member of the government. But since Jürgen Ligi is painting some kind of boogeyman on the wall, I just have to illustrate that some things have improved considerably compared to the time when cultural life was led by the cultural ministers of the Reform Party. After Laine Jänes had run the field for more than two years after that, Jaak Allik Sirbis, a well-known theater observer, wrote on 28 November 2013 (and we do not have such a situation today): 'Even worse has the situation been in the Russian Theatre, where the 'Soviet' power has been particularly raging. In 2007, Minister Jänes wanted to get rid of the artistic leader Mikhail Chumachenko. [---] Tšumachenko was chosen as a measure of completely unfounded political defamation (according to the written confirmation of the kapo). Honour to Ants Leetsa, Chairman of the Foundation Council, who refused to go along with his partymate with the minister's intrigue and resigned. Five theatre leaders have now changed in the Russian Theatre for six years and the fifth chairman of the council immediately. The financial and artistic situation has only become more unstable. " That was the situation at the end of 2013. Let us recall that culture has been managed in different ways. One way is to try to ensure a peace of work in the field, the other is to walk and create more problems as a leader. I would like to be guided here by the Chinese proverb, which says that not the screaming of a wild duck, but his flight leads the herd. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U77	Jürgen Ligi's name was named during the negotiations; he has the right of reply. Please! One minute.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U78	Thank you. It's very nice to hear a young communist quote an old communist and talk about the past. But I did not say that money is being wasted on culture, and I have said that the Minister is also responsible for financial discipline. In this case, the fact that there were some quotes exfoliated from the past didn't correspond to the tone of questioning. I would have liked a statesman's message that, yes, he is dealing with problems that are not bogeys smeared or drawn on my wall, but are media data on the financial situation of cultural institutions. I have just quoted them, hoping for explanations from the Minister of Culture. But, of course, if there is no statesman in the ministry, there will be no answers, there will be some quotes from the old Communists.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U79	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U80	The third item on our agenda is the question of Krista Aru, Andres Herkel, Ain Lutsepp, Jüri Adams and Enn Meri. On behalf of the heirs, Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U81	Mr President! Honourable representatives of the people! Minister, thank you very much. It is very good for me to introduce this inquiry, because the focus of the topic is the Estonian Concert of the Foundation. The Estonian Concert has a new council, the old things have been completed and we hope that the foundation's life will really work out in terms of financial discipline next year and will also find expression in the pedagogical wish that the minister mentioned here. But these old things, however, are somehow left in the air. Despite the fact that on 30 October the Minister decided to recall the Estonian Concert Foundation as a full member of the Supervisory Board and also gave an assessment that the Supervisory Board is unable to act in this composition, we want to ask what was really the reason. After all, we have had no reason to doubt the competence of the members of the Supervisory Board of the Foundation Eesti Kontsert, just as there has been no reason to doubt the skills, competence and knowledge of the field of the Chairman of the Supervisory Board. Or was the Council already before the problems and they simply accumulated in such a complicated and complex situation? We have six questions. In fact, these six questions focus not only on the failure of a failed member of the management board of the Foundation's Estonian Concert, but also on the failure of the competition that has damaged the reputation of both the organisation and people, but also on the wider view of the issue. After all, the establishment of foundations by the state was one of those possibilities which was intended precisely to prevent the political (the Minister mentioned it today) Minister's involvement in the activities of these foundations, either to a greater extent or in terms of artistic level. As far as this has been achieved, can we still be sure that all these political interventions, no matter how well-intentioned, are excluded in the case of these foundations, and also in the case of the selection procedures for these board members? So we have six questions, and I hope the Minister will read them himself. We expect concrete answers for all of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U82	The Minister of Culture, Indrek Saar, will also answer this question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U83	Thank you for the opportunity, esteemed heirs. I will then read the question as requested, and I will answer it. The first question: 'On the basis of what facts and facts did you conclude that the Foundation's Estonian Concert Council and its chairman were not "able to work', although there had previously been no reason to doubt the competence of the members of the Supervisory Board? ' The Estonian Foundation Concert has no reason to doubt the professional competence of the members of the previous Supervisory Board today, but the Supervisory Board had to assess the inability to work after the immediate meeting and the discussion with all the members of the Supervisory Board. The meeting revealed that the differences between the Council and the Council in the conduct of the competition were profound and fundamental. There was a lack of trust between themselves, which prevented the Council from continuing constructively in the same composition. The low capacity of the Council was recognised by four of the five Council members who proposed to recall the Council. The second question: 'The press release on the website of the Ministry does not reveal who is divided between the concepts of organizational leadership and needs? Please specify both the actual content and the reasons for the overall assessment. ' That is what I already answered in answer to the first question. In the Supervisory Board there were fundamental differences about the process of conducting the competition and its impact on the working capacity of the Foundation's Estonian Concert, both at the moment of the competition and in the future. The third question: 'Is the involvement of experts in your field in the Foundation's Governing Board election process more a rule or an exception? Who decides on the need to involve experts, the choice and the weight of their assessment? ' Unfortunately, I do not have any statistics on whether the involvement of experts in such competitions is more of a rule or an exception. However, the Foundation's Board of Directors is based on the Foundation's statutes in its activities and decisions, and so the Board decides to involve sectoral experts in the organisation of the competition for a member of the Foundation's Board. The profile of sectoral experts, the number of experts in the Commission, their participation in the various stages of the competition, as well as the weight of their assessment, is a decision of the Council, but ultimately the Council, and no one else, is responsible for the results. Question 4: "Did the announcement of the competition with you be coordinated with the chairman of the management board of the Estonian Concert Foundation, and were you aware of the financial problems of the Estonian Concert Foundation, one of the reasons for which is that the current management has too expensive and long-lasting trips abroad? ' As I said before, the Supervisory Board of the Estonian Concert Foundation has a full mandate to elect a member of the board and approve it. Whether it does so through a competition and, if so, through which competition it involves in the conduct of the competition, these are all the decisions of the Council and the Council is responsible for these decisions. The Minister cannot therefore give any kind of coordination in the announcement of such a competition. As far as external missions are concerned, one of the natural parts of the work of an internationally active concert organisation is certainly also external missions in different forms. Whether they have been justified in substance and whether the costs have been optimal must be reassessed by the Council by commissioning an evaluation or an audit if necessary. Question 5: 'Did you, as a minister, intervene in the electoral process and its outcome and try to influence the Chairman of the Council or the members of the Council when making a decision? ' I have not interfered with the process of electing a member of the management board of the SA Eesti Kontsert or influenced the Chairman of the Supervisory Board or members of the Supervisory Board. Question 6: "What are the main findings of the Ministry in order to organise future competitions and election procedures for the selection of the governing bodies of state foundations? ' I must say once again that it is the care and responsibility of the senior governing body of each foundation, the council, for such competitions to succeed. It is certainly important to monitor this case against the background of the fact that the information relating to the competition is unambiguous for both the members of the Commission and the participants in the competition. It is also important to ensure that all candidates are treated equally at each stage of the competition. If the candidates who have participated in the competition give conflicting signals, conflicting information, the competition may not succeed, however, even if the Council conducts the competition in accordance with its own rules of procedure. These were my answers to your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U84	Questions for the Minister. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U85	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! I have also worked in one council myself and experienced the fact that the foundation is in contact with the Ministry on a very regular basis, in exchange for information and in negotiations with the Ministry. Are you suggesting that the Ministry of Culture has not been in constant contact with the management of the Estonian Concert? I understood from your answers that, in this case, the terms of competition were determined by the Council itself. But is there really a decision-making policy based on consensus? I have been in the Council, where there have been different opinions about what civil society is, whether it is only an opinion festival, or whether it is also a village society, but that is why the work has not stopped in any way.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U86	No, the statute of such councils provides for how decisions are to be taken. It is often also differentiated. For example, when it comes to a real estate decision and a financial transaction, a higher percentage of votes are needed, but for some of the day-to-day management decisions where the Governing Board takes a guideline or coordination from the Governing Council, fewer votes are needed. But it is defined in the Statute and no one can claim that all the decisions of the Council must be taken in a consensual manner. If you referred to the fact that the Council should have made all its decisions in a consensual manner, I think it is not. But the Council should have been able to work after its decisions, and that was not the Council. As I referred to earlier, four out of five members of the Council did not see how it would be possible to continue working with this Council. The only one who thought it was possible was the chairman of the council. What would you advise the Minister to do in such a situation? The President of the Council, who is primarily responsible for the fact that a stalemate has been reached, is the only one who thinks that it should be continued, all the remaining members say that it is not possible to move forward together. What would have been an alternative move? Should everyone else be recalled and allowed to continue alone by the Chairman of the Supervisory Board, who is primarily responsible? It probably wouldn't have been a way out. In this situation, it was best to recall the entire Council.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U87	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U88	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you for your answers. Your answers were all correct and, in fact, this is probably how it happened. But what was the reason? The Council worked perfectly with the Chairman, at least there were no signs that anything had happened. Where, then, did the conflict arise, or is it really so purely within the Council that, as your minister, you do not know or will not know this answer? On the other hand, I have this question. You have stressed on several occasions today that the Minister and the Ministry do not really interfere with the work of foundations councils and the day-to-day activities of foundations. I totally agree! But how will the Ministry and as your minister get an overview that everything is going very well in this foundation, either in terms of financial discipline or creative activity?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U89	We'll get the annual reports from the foundations. On the other hand, as has been referred to earlier, the members of the Council are usually appointed by the Minister of Culture and, normally, at least one of the members of the Council is associated with the Ministry of Culture through their duties. It is their duty to give a signal when something in principle no longer works in the work of the institution and there is a situation in which there may be a need for the Minister to exercise his rights under the founding rights in one way or another. Daily economic activities, whether a little more or less ticket revenues were received in December and whether or not they would be problematic in the coming period, are, as a rule, decisions taken by the Council and the Management Board. There are better and worse times in all economic entities. Such monitoring must be carried out by the members of the Council, and this is not the place where the Minister of Culture intervenes every day in their work. But if, in this Council, anyone can even answer where these relations got messed up and where confidence was lost, then they are members of the Council. But what does that answer give us? It was clear that the Council was no longer able to work. Because of the loss of confidence, different parties have submitted different versions. Whoever could have better shared information at some point, how could have prevented this loss of trust, there have been different ideas about it. But, as I said, it cannot be ruled out that there will be no analogous situations when procedures are carried out impeccablely. There are still several parties to such a process, and if the selected candidate provides conflicting information, sharing this information once in the council, once in the Council, once in the public, it will also certainly create problems. Normally, I think it is possible to overcome these problems with good cooperation in the Council, but in this case, unfortunately, this ended with the fact that the Council no longer had the capacity to work.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U90	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U91	Thank you. Well, he's a pretty ugly and unprecedented story, remembering these events. First of all, it was a public competition, a very thorough, written rounds, meetings, and a consensual candidate was elected, the winner was confirmed, but when the public found out that this was a well-known opposition politician, weird things started to happen. The same people who decided this consensually began to flicker. Supposedly, the people who were representatives of the ministries began to flicker. If the candidate confirmed in writing that he was in agreement with all the conditions and also with the salary conditions, he was still not even invited, but was told that the competition had failed. It's gonna look weird. I regret that people are not allowed to leave politics with dignity, even if they deserve it. But that's what I'm asking. One of the reasons for declaring a contest unsuccessful was that it is necessary to do so quickly, that the budget is in progress, that there are problems and that there are huge challenges. Where's the speed gone? Laine Randjärv was thrown aside, he was taunted and humiliated, but there is no new leader. Where did that reason suddenly go?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U92	Thank you. I kept thinking about the last sentence that Laine Randjärv was thrown aside, taunted and humiliated. Maybe you'll specify who mocked him and humiliated him. I can't say I was wrong about Laine Randjärv. I have respected my predecessors and have always tried to be right about them. The fact that there was a lot of information noise in the public was also related to the candidate, who provided conflicting information in writing and orally, among other things, to the public. We can look at all of this in a documentary way, and it is now available in the internet. I'm really sorry it happened. It's really sorry. A lot of time was wasted. But now there is nothing to be done; this time must be taken so that the new Council can make its decisions as prudently as possible and move forward. The Estonian Concert is also able to work in the near future and the Estonian Concert Council will make sure that there is a long vision at the Estonian Concert.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U93	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U94	Thank you. Mr. Minister! I'm under the influence of a previous inquiry. I just came back here and didn't hear exactly what you were saying the rest of the time. But I noticed you said you had respect for your predecessors. You ended your previous inquiry with mockery of your predecessors, even though the questioners were quite friendly. But one complaint, I understand, was to Laine Randjärv that he started running too soon. When it comes to financial discipline, you once again said that the future or new board and the new council must sort it out. Was it also among the reproach you had on Laine Randjärv that he began to settle these things and shortcomings before he was appointed, when he had already been elected? Is this a complaint that he tried to lead too soon? I don't understand it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U95	Once again, I ask who made these reproaches. The fact that one day the candidate expressed his wishes in the same way and the other day had changed his mind was still the candidate himself, he did. I have not reproached Laine Randjärv in this context. But the fact that the public was filled with conflicting information at some point was, unfortunately, an objective reality. If you would now be so kind as to take these public sources apart afterwards, you would see that there was a number of conflicting information, which was also stated by the wider public, not only by the Council. But I think we should move on. If you have a concern because Laine Randjärv is in an unpleasant light, with each of your next questions, you will recall the whole process, where this person certainly had a significant role to play.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U96	There are no further questions for the Minister. I'm opening negotiations. It's a negotiation request. On behalf of the heirs, Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U97	Mr President! Good people's representatives! Minister, thank you very much. We have heard here today during the two hearings that the Ministry and the Minister are not interfering in any way in the activities of foundations. On the one hand, it is very commendable. We also heard the Minister's confirmation that in no way has the Estonian Concert been politically interfered with the procedure for electing a member of the board, and I believe the Minister thought and said these words very seriously here. On the other hand, we cannot deny that culture also begins with the way in which all electoral procedures are carried out, as correctly, honestly, openly and correctly treated with candidates. It also begins with the way things are spoken. It is true that all of us sometimes make mistakes, all of us are wrong, and also the councils can sometimes conflict with their own organisation of work. However, what is important is that culture also means a culture of behaviour, a culture of communication, an electoral culture at all levels. We cannot talk about things in our society in general, nor in any area, that we lack confidence, that we are not honest, that we are not open-minded, that we do not talk about things the way they are, unless we begin with it in those institutions that are 100% formed by the state so that they can pursue culture in the creative or artistic sense of the word. It is important that these institutions, then, are involved in the proper conduct of financial discipline, electoral procedures or the operational process, that they be spoken, dealt with and that assessments are also made honestly and openly. In no way would I like to end the activities of the Estonian Concert of the Foundation today, and all this did not concern the Minister at all, nor did I care. The Ministry of Culture must have a picture of how cultural institutions operate, and I think there is nothing wrong with it if the Minister has an assessment, he knows how the institution works, how the elections are conducted. It's nothing to be ashamed of. The shame is that we cannot carry out these procedures properly. I would like to thank once again everyone who could listen to this embarrassing discussion about the Estonian Concert, which should now end! I really want to wish the Minister that these things will not happen again. It is not a question of one person; it is a question of principles that should be followed honestly in the case of culture and other institutions from start to finish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U98	Arto Aas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U99	Good Riigikogu! Thank you first for asking the people of the Free Party about this. This is an important issue, not only in the light of a specific case, but also on the general issue of political culture, on the issue of the culture of affairs, which could be an exemplary level in the Ministry of Culture. I will continue to remind you of some of the circumstances. The winner of the contest was revealed in fair competition, the decision was consensual, and all members of the Council agreed with this decision. After this decision became public, things started to get weird because it was a well-known opposition politician. After that, the process was no longer transparent and understandable. Yes, the news about Laine Randjärv was received with great public attention, there were many public appearances, etc., but there was no substantive problem with hiring him. He had not lost his competence, experience or passion for the field in the days following the competition. Let us remind you that the call did not set a deadline for coming to work, that there were no wage conditions, and that was all a question of negotiation. For most or many competitions, if a suitable person is found, negotiations will continue. These negotiations were just ahead of us. The fact that the winner of the contest presents some versions and they are discussed, something is accepted and nothing is completely common practice, not so that the person is immediately thrown into the corner. If there had actually been approval, political approval, the approval of the ministries, which had been transferred to the Council, the recruitment of Laine Randjärv, then the organisers of the competition, the council, should have contacted Laine Randjärv and called him out. Just like Laine himself offered. He also sent a note in writing before the Council meeting that he agreed to meet to ask for the opportunity to meet the Council, and that he agreed to all the conditions regarding both pay and the time limit for coming to work. But he wasn't even given that chance. It would have been correct to ask him out, to say there's a lot of noise here, to say what your position is, whether we can agree or not. That's what should have been decided after this meeting. If the wave had put forward absurd conditions that could not have been accepted, it would have been understandable that they would be disbanded. But not so that a person is not even given the opportunity to express his or her views. So this is a sad case, and it smells bad. It's okay, it smells like a political vendetta, whoever orchestrated it from some background. I can't tell if it was Indrek Saar, maybe not, maybe it was someone else. In any case, this thing is not transparent, and here's the generalisation. If we want good leaders in cultural institutions in the Estonian public sector or anywhere in state enterprises, this is not the way to do these things. The wave is a strong person, he survives it, he continues in politics, he definitely loves culture and music. But believe me, when the top guys watch this thing on TV and read about it in the paper, they don't come running anymore. They can't stand the public pressure and humiliation that goes on here, that one day you're going through this whole gauntlet, you're going to win, and the next day you're going to be thrown aside with random excuses. The same story that we urgently need a leader, the horrible thing is that strategies and budgets need to be made right now, where is this rush now? Nothing will happen in the Estonian Concert within one or two months. There is no leader today, and as far as I know, there is no competition going on. So the generalisation is clearly sad. It was, I think, a long and wide-ranging decision, sloppyly made. The Council's departure was, I think, the minimum that could have happened in this situation. In this sense, the Minister can be commended; indeed, this Council did not deserve to continue in this composition. But the wider impact on the quality of governance of the Estonian public sector is in any case negative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U100	Yes, the Minister has the right to speak. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U101	First of all, thank you for the credit! I'm flattered. It is not that, as the opposition approaches the elections, the Minister is thus recognized by the opposition, now too often. I mean, it's beautiful when it happens sometimes. As far as this competition is concerned, of course, this competition did not win anyone's reputation, I fully agree with that. But, as I said in reply to the question, could it have been avoided unilaterally, I am not sure of that. This competition was first hit in public terms, I recall, when the chosen candidate was asked whether he intended to come to work later because he wanted to receive compensation for a member of the Riigikogu. He said he deserved the compensation of a member of the Riigikogu and therefore wants to come to work later. Then the Riigikogu, as well as the relevant candidate and competition, became the first bang in terms of reputation. From there, all of the following were reschedules. Indeed, it was stupid, if not to say, even stupid. But I am not sure that such things can be prevented unilaterally in the future, no matter how well we think about and organise our procedures. As for the theory of conspiracy, the fact that it was all politically directed, look around the Ministry of Culture peacefully, look at what has happened during the time I have been a minister. During this period, a wide range of people have become leaders of cultural institutions, regardless of the outlook. If Jürgen Ligi wants to talk about Margus Allikmaa, I say that Margus Allikmaa is the CEO of the Russian drama theatre, and I think that right at the beginning of the year he will be a member of the board of the Russian drama theatre by decision of the council, if I have read it correctly from the council's decision. You will also find other persons directly or indirectly associated with the Reform Party who have successfully passed the competition in the field of culture. These people have been on both the opposition and the coalition side. This kind of surveillance may cultivate conspiracy theories, but it doesn't get any closer to the truth. But once again, thank you for the debate. I very much hope and believe that it is in the wider interest of political culture that we can now draw a line on this embarrassing story and move forward with what we are doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U102	The President also thanks for the debate that has ended.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-10_U103	Now there's a hammer strike that opens up great opportunities to speak in a free microphone. There is no wish to speak in a free microphone. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for this working day. I'll see you tomorrow morning at 10:00. Closure of the sitting at 5 p.m.
