ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U1	Good morning, Reverend Riigikogu. The Tuesday session of the 15th working week of the VII session has begun. I'm open to the handing over of drafts and inquiries. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U2	Good morning, everyone! I am pleased to hand over, on behalf of the Free Party Group, the draft law amending the law on the limit on the number of members of the Government of the Republic. All this is driven by the fact that we are dealing with state reform here at the level of the problem committee and also under the leadership of businesses. We ourselves have dealt with a small part of the state reform in this Chamber in the context of administrative reform, and we believe that this issue must definitely be taken forward. We believe that duplication and substitution activities in the national system should be progressively reduced. Unfortunately, we are also seeing duplication in the government sector, where it has been created with the offices of double ministers. We therefore propose that these duplicate agencies be reunited for clarity, in particular for reasons of legal clarity, as was the case in the past, i.e. to limit the number of members of the government to 12. We are pleased that entrepreneurs came up with their proposals yesterday, but if our aim is only to move forward with constitutional changes, we will probably not get anywhere. We make a proposal that is in our own hands and that we are also able to deal with ourselves. Our bill means at least half a million dollars of savings. And why is savings in government expenditure important? Our population is shrinking and we need to make changes and make decisions on the basis of available resources. It is therefore important that we start with the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U3	Igor Gräzin.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U4	Good morning. They're shutting down the maternity ward in the Valga. There are 150 women who go 60 kilometres away to Valmiera to give birth, because you cannot come to the Estonian maternity home. That's our law. What's interesting is that no one thinks that there are people born here, and we close the house and send Latvian ladies to the field. In this regard, we have a small draft here. The transnational issue of local government has also come through here. In short, on behalf of the seven parliamentarians, I am forwarding a draft law supplementing the Local Government Organisation Act, which solves a great many problems. It was just an example.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U5	On behalf of the management board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two draft laws and we will forward them to them in accordance with the requirements of the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act. Ladies and gentlemen, presence check, please! 81 parliamentarians take part in the meeting, no 20.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U6	Today's first item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Structural Support Act and other laws (creating a single implementation service) for the period 2014 to 2020 initiated by the Government of the Republic. I call the Secretary of Finance, Toomas Tõniste, in front of the microphone of the speech chair as a waitress. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U7	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The purpose of the draft is to launch a single implementation service for grants. For this purpose, regional grants from the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Rural Affairs and structural grants from the Ministry of Finance will be concentrated at the State Support Services Centre by 1 September. The amendment concerns 36 support measures with a total amount of EUR 1 billion. As EU subsidies are expected to decrease by up to a third in the new financial period, the administration of grants needs to be made more effective already, that is the idea of the draft. In order to reduce the number of grant providers and support measures, the State Support Services Centre will become the central grant provider and information channel for regional grants and grants from the Ministry of Finance. Co-ordinators responsible for awarding grants will also be brought together with grant providers. This is a reform of public authorities, which brings together activities of the same nature. Initially, the change concerns the Ministry of Finance and its administration, but we are also expecting other ministries to join the initiative. The preparation of the terms of support will not be dealt with; it will continue to be carried out by the ministries responsible for the sector. For those already supported, the terms of support do not change as a result of the draft. Please support the bill! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U8	There are also questions for the rapporteur. Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U9	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, That report was pretty laconic. It is clear that the European Union's structural support is starting to decrease, and we also need to take action on our part. But there was a little bit of a lack of that inner view. Does this draft entail a clear reduction in the administrative burden and, if so, which one can it be calculated in cash?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U10	Thank you. Currently, there will be no direct administrative burden savings: these jobs will move to the National Support Services Centre and the services provided will simply be grouped together. The monetary victory will come later. While currently grants are paid out by various foundations, which in parallel maintain and develop IT solutions, or duplicate each other's work, savings will occur in the long term.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U11	Lauri Luik.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U12	Thank you. Good minister! For years, the Gambling Tax Board has been a major aid to smaller applicants, in particular in the fields of sport, culture, education and social affairs. He has been particularly supportive of those who are unable to claim money from large funds. This has been a very flexible and fast-start financing option. What will be the prospect for these small applicants in the future? Whom do they have to turn to, and how will they be financed in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U13	Thank you. In the future, they will turn to the respective ministries and receive their support from them.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U14	March Sults.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U15	Thank you. My question is just like a follow-up to Mr Swan's question. When all are grouped together, do all those applications concerning early childhood education, primary education, upper secondary school education, special education, special educational needs, social assistance or support services go to an official of the Ministry of Education? Does he discuss and consider whether they are worthy of support or not, while the Gambling Tax Council is being made redundant?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U16	Thank you. With this draft, we will direct regional grants from the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Rural Affairs and structural grants from the Ministry of Finance to the State Support Services Centre, a total of 36 measures. In order to have a better overview, I will read out what goes to RTK: the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications action 'Improving access to capital and credit insurance', the actions of the Ministry of Social Affairs on health services, welfare infrastructure and food aid topics, support programmes of the Ministry of Rural Affairs Peipsivere and Setomaa, measures for policy-making and development of human resources in the State Chancellery and regional measures of the Ministry of Finance. These are measures that are transferred and financed from five sources of funding: the Structural Funds, the European Territorial Cooperation and Neighbourhood Instrument, the Fund for European Aid, the proceeds from the sale of CO2 and other greenhouse gas quotas, the Gambling Tax and other revenue from the state budget. At this level of decision-making, which are the measures and their criteria, the change is not the same as it has been so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U17	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U18	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! In your introductory speech, you mentioned, as one reason, that possible subsidies from the European Union will be reduced by nearly a third. In the various debates both in this Chamber and in the Commission, you and the officials of the Ministry of Finance have stated that ministries are currently not drawing up their prospective budgets for the use of euro money, because it is too early to do so, we do not know how much money will be reduced. Now, you take the officials out of Tallinn on the one hand and centralise them here in Tallinn on the other. In the end, you won't win. Why are you saying today that there will be no reduction in the number of people? So, what's the purpose?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U19	Thank you. This is definitely where we're going in the right direction. This is not appropriate, as I said before, when funds are distributed through eight foundations. People partially duplicate work in these foundations, which also means the need for control and IT solutions. Here's the point of austerity. This pilot project is based on the fact that the grants under the Ministry of Finance will be grouped together and, in essence, the service will be provided through a single window. This makes it much easier for applicants: they do not have to go to several places to make applications. Everything gets easier for everyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U20	Please, Monika Hawkhammer!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U21	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. If you look at the title, it is the European Union's Structural Funds Act, but to my surprise, I also found in § 2 amendments to the Gambling Tax Act. We know that on May 7, we were handed over a bill to amend the Gambling Tax Act. My question is how these two drafts come together, because the deadline for the amendments to be discussed today is 1 September and 1 January for the drafts transferred at the beginning of May. Why are we still making these changes now? Isn't that an excessive administrative burden? And didn't that second bill wait?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U22	Thank you. Your penguin here today just a few minutes ago said that there is a need to reform the state, to be more effective. This is actually the most real state reform, part of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U23	Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U24	Thank you, Minister. I really liked your answer before, just the emphasis that 'here we are definitely going in the right direction'. Indeed, this is where you are definitely heading in the right direction. But the answer to Lauri Swan's question about giving gambling money. I thought that some central distribution structure would be maintained and, in principle, the rigidity would be removed, that one tax would be split separately. This is, in fact, the main problem in the hulk and Gambling Tax Council, that the tax from vices is somehow shared and the areas are made dependent on it. Have you ever thought about maintaining your rigidity? You're still dividing the same amount proportionally, by certain percentages, but you're taking away this positive, decentralized distribution. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U25	Thank you. The fact that politicians now share money in the Gambling Tax Council is, in some ways, flexibility, but it is certainly not as transparent as any other approach. This law is intended to delegate regional investment grants to the level of the Minister when we are talking about the part of the gambling tax. The amendment to the Gambling Tax Act allows the use of funds allocated for regional investment to be regulated in the same way as the regulations of the Minister responsible for other regional development programmes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U26	Hanno Pevkur.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U27	Thank you. There was not much to talk about the content of these changes to the gambling tax in the Committee on Finance; perhaps this needs to be clarified once again in this Chamber. But I'm gonna ask you one more thing that got a little crazy. You said that there would be no immediate administrative burden savings. But how is that still possible? We have a lot of tasks in different ministries that will now be carried out by a support service centre, as you yourself said, but all people will remain in the ministries. Explain or count back from your papers exactly what you're still doing. One thing is the transfer of services. But how many people exactly does this concern, and do these people go to the support center? And what is the substance of this reform? We have now realised that the biggest problem is, in fact, changing the distribution of gambling tax: it goes from a broad political debate level to the hands of a minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U28	Thank you. The amendment of the Gambling Tax Act is certainly not the main subject of this draft , this may be the case on the basis of the questions. The purpose of the single implementation service is to test, for example, whether, given the variety of support measures, it is possible to make grants more uniform and customer-centred. The aim is also to make the delegated system more centralised: the organiser and donor of grants will be brought together in a single body. This will result in a reduction in red tape, as the need to control the donor will disappear. That is, in short, my answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U29	George Jaanson.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U30	Thank you, Minister. The idea of the bill must be commended in the big picture, but I will ask. I know your experience so far: you know very well the problems in sport. You certainly know well that there are large and small areas in sport, the Olympics and the so-called small areas for which funds are requested from the Gambling Tax Council for project-based events. If these smaller sports, sports and sports associations are now put in a pot with large areas, how can they in the future, even in the context of an economic crisis, where the tax money to be distributed is less than enough to cover their needs, and where to apply for something?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U31	Thank you. This draft does not deal with this issue, but actually makes the system of grant sharing effective, particularly on the technical side. The level of decision-making in which priorities and criteria are set remains the way they are, there are no changes. And when we talk about amending the Gambling Tax Act, about how it is planned to abolish the Gambling Tax Council, none of the current major recipients will lose. EOK or the Ministry of Culture will share this money in the same way. This bill certainly doesn't put anything at risk here.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U32	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. As usual, every law involves implementation costs and paragraph 7 of the explanatory memorandum refers to this. Now, the Ministry of Finance is planning a variety of activities, among which, as you mentioned before, the possibility of reducing the level of control and finding a more uniform, source-independent grant implementation service is being tested. In this regard, I have two questions. How long is this planned test period? And the second question is whether I understood correctly that, instead of the existing Soviets (e.g. gambling tax), which have at least been tried to be politically relatively balanced, the decision-making power of the Minister is increasing.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U33	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U34	Thank you for your question. I believe that it is high time we started taking steps that can be taken into account in planning the new period. We are expected to reach the design of the implementation systems for the 2021+ period at the end of next year or at the beginning of 2020. This gives us more than a year to test the implementation of coherent, source-independent grants at RTK to prove that it is effective. And I hope that other ministries will join us. At this point, the basic criticism may be that before you prove yourself to be more effective. The issue of abolishing the Gambling Tax Council does not really concern this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U35	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U36	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister! You have just said a few questions back in your reply that, in the case of the Gambling Tax Council, the distribution of money is political, because politicians belong to the Council, and now that the distribution of the corresponding amounts is going to the Ministry, it is less political. This bill does not have either a design plan or a proper impact analysis. So I'm asking you if you think it's been analyzed that the movement of money from gambling to the ministry no longer means political distribution of that money.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U37	Thank you. The planned abolition of the Gambling Tax Board is not the subject of this draft. There is a separate draft that will also come to this Riigikogu. The National Audit Office has complained that the distribution of money through the Gambling Tax Council is not transparent. They've been very critical about this. When ministries share this money, it is a plus that longer-term agreements can also be made and given certainty to those organisations that are really doing a grateful job. It was not possible to do this through the Gambling Tax Council. Once again, there are conditions for the implementation of each measure, everything is public and every decision must be justified. So I don't think sharing that money there is going to get any more political.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U38	Arto Aas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U39	Thank you, good minister. Exactly two years ago, the previous government was already discussing a change in the system of structural support sharing. I put forward a number of proposals on how the whole use of euro and regional money, which is now well bureaucratic and well fragmented, should change in the future. At least nine agencies are involved in the distribution of these funds. It has been two years now, and a very small part of it has been hatched in the administration of the Ministry of Finance itself. This is probably the right step in the right direction, although I believe it is a very short and very late step. But are you sure that taking such a half-step will have any economic effect if EAS and other structures remain?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U40	Thank you. I also think that this is the right step. I myself would be even more ambitious and I would very much go through one tube of these euro payments, if you could call it that, but, as we know, things often do not go so easily. That is why I am pleased that there is a draft here before you today, which is going to take a very big first step in the right direction. We cannot talk about some small cosmetic change, because we are talking about almost EUR 1 billion in monetary terms and about 36 measures, and this is still quite a proper reform.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U41	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U42	Thank you, good vice chairman. Thank you to the Minister for his first supportive vote on our draft. I participated in the Interior Ministry discussion on Friday, where the Ministry of Education and Research explained in the context of the abolition of the Gambling Tax Council and the example of youth workers' organisations that flexibility would disappear. My fellow Members previously asked about this flexibility. Ministries are not able to give support to "perhaps good ideas," but they can make long-term contracts. What is your answer, though, if there is a desire to maintain our flexible administration and good projects so that we can help quickly, even in organising sports events or other scholarships? This bill goes in a way towards rigidity and centralisation.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U43	Thank you. I think that if we share not our own money, but taxpayers' money, then it can't be that the company comes together and thinks it's the right thing to do. It can't be that my friend said he had a nice venture or an event, and we give him money. There's gotta be some rigidity, there's gotta be some system. In this sense, I do not see any contradiction here when the distribution of money becomes more transparent.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U44	Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U45	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I have read the minutes: five questions were put to you in the Committee on Monetary Affairs on 7 May. The latter was the question of the total amount of structural support for the future period. And here's the fixed answer: 'Accorded to remain valid up to 40%'. I didn't get it very well, and I'm going to go over what we're talking about, just in case.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U46	Thank you. I can't explain at this point what this 40% is about, what it's about.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U47	Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U48	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I think we all understand that we're on the right track, that this bill is needed. The good thing is that all this administration of grants will become more resource-efficient and in itself more convenient for the applicant. You spoke very rightly about the design of one window, a system where a person applies and receives feedback and support from one window. However, there is one other thing about these requests: there are the European Union's structural instruments and national budget programmes. Will this bill also review these systems so that in parallel, some activities are not financed from structural resources and other state budget resources? Well, there's one window left, but I think we might as well cut it down a little bit.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U49	Thank you. This is also one of the objectives of this reform, so that structural support and other support are not allocated separately so that as many grants as possible are paid through a single window. This will make it much easier and less bureaucratic for the applicant and will actually allow for proper savings in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U50	Jürgen Ligi, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U51	Thank you, Minister. It was a scandalous statement that you made in response to my question about sharing gambling money and not just my question that it is transparent when you take the decision-making to minister and ministry level, that it will be all right. The problem with this distribution of money is quite different from that of being decentralised. But the other part is that the consolidation of structural money sharing was indeed also part of our government's agenda. I have doubts that you have great practical difficulties in taking a step longer than the one currently being offered, and I understand that. Would you describe the difficulties of not taking a longer step? Where is this opposition, and what are the arguments of the current government? It's a subject I'm familiar with, but share your experience.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U52	Thank you. I guess every change always makes a lot of people resist. Perhaps the main argument is that we have a system currently in operation, with which the ministries are satisfied, looking at it narrowly from their ministry. That is why we found that we would move forward with a pilot project, showing that such a consolidated distribution of money or subsidies is effective and of high quality. Then others will join it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U53	Lauri Luik.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U54	Thank you. Good Minister, you said that this bill does not directly concern the abolition of the Gambling Tax Council, but I read the opposite in this text. And I think it's good practice that if we build a new well, the old one will not be filled until the new one is ready, but I think the old one has already been shut down. We met at the Ministry of Education and Research last week with representatives of sports organisations, or ministries, people from the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Social Affairs. There was no very clear vision of how future funding would take place. Who, for example, will finance organisations that are currently receiving support from the Ministry of Education, whether it goes under the EOK or will be decided by the Minister alone? Please, however, open up a little more of your vision of how this distribution of money will be specific to sports organisations in the academic circle, such as the Academic Sports Association, the Association of Vocational Training Institutions and the Estonian School Sports Association.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U55	Thank you. This distribution of money is managed by the ministries themselves. I really don't know how to speak for them right now, exactly how anyone's planning to do it. The disappearance of the Gambling Tax Board is essentially the least relevant to sport, because there these funds move directly to cultural capital, the EOK and the Ministry of Culture. In principle, this system of sharing has worked through cultural capital so far. So this distribution of money is based on the best knowledge and skill of the ministries.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U56	Hanno Pevkur.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U57	Thank you, good minister. It still seems to me that you have not made it quite clear to yourself what will happen in the future with the collection and distribution of gambling tax. The current bill provides for the money to be taken away somewhere. It's like you're saying it's a ministry thing, and that makes it more transparent. As Jürgen pointed out here, there is no real agreement. The logic of the current system is that experts give their opinion and, among other things, the Gambling Tax Council, drawn up from various political forces, makes the final decision As far as structural support is concerned, I even agree that they must be'sewn together'. Explain the logic of sharing gambling tax more closely. If you don't have a clear understanding of it yourself, why don't you take these points out and calmly think through the logic of how to proceed?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U58	Thank you. Logic is there in that sense. The Gambling Tax Council disappears, but for the biggest beneficiaries nothing changes in the distribution of money, just one interim phase disappears.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U59	Arno Bridge.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U60	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. You mentioned the Peipsiveere programme in your speech on regional subsidies. But what about the Setomaa support programme, who's going to share the money? And what about the Southeast Estonia Support Programme? It has been said that South East Estonia receives an additional EUR 800000.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U61	Thank you. This Southeast Estonia program is new. In essence, nothing changes, just this subsidy distribution is now concentrated in RTK. I really hope that this will become easier and better quality for people, because the aim is to provide a better service. Similarly, Setomaa has a support programme, which will now be shared by RTK. That's all there is.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U62	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U63	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. The annex to this draft is a very meaningful table, which actually speaks of the fact that the draft is intended to make better choices in the allocation of EUR 1 billion to support all kinds of activities. But my question is simple. This explanatory memorandum states that the staff and officials of the institutions involved in the organisation of grants are to be transferred from EAS and the Ministry of Finance to RTK, but no cost reduction or increase is foreseen. I'm asking how many people there are and if they have rooms to work there at the RTK.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U64	Thank you. I think there's a hundred people coming to the RTK. Certainly, finding a job will not be an obstacle for them; it has been taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U65	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U66	Mr President! Mr. Minister! You just mentioned there's gonna be about a hundred more people coming to the RTK, but I have a question. You promise that all this application for grants will become more transparent, clearer and easier for the applicant. But will all application forms be re-evaluated, processing and simplified, reporting corrected? Are the results from the quality assessment of the entire procedure carried out?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U67	Thank you. Certainly, this is part of this reform and the aim of That's what the customer wins. And when we look at how we can assess the success of this pilot project, there are indicators here: satisfaction, quality and speed of service delivery are assessed. If, at present, payment applications have to be processed no more than 90 calendar days, the aim is to halve the time so that the person can receive his or her support half as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U68	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U69	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. You mentioned in your speech that these subsidies will decrease, which is true. At the same time, it is well known that the European Commission is also planning to increase the percentage of own contribution to support projects that you did not mention. Can you inform us what more precise plans are than how much it will cost us to receive these benefits?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U70	Thank you. It is a little early today to talk about this in concrete terms, because this information is missing. It is well known that overall there is a trend towards increasing ownership, but the precise proposals that come from the Commission and which final levels of ownership will be confirmed are a matter of its own. The big picture is that structural resources are likely to decrease by up to a third. At the same time, agricultural policy rather wins, hopefully gets more money, and other central subsidies, large infrastructure projects, get more money compared to the current period. But it's gonna take a while for the final numbers to come up.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U71	Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U72	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I'm asking you about the draft implementing act that's in this annex and what shows how it's going to be. It's really very, very draft. When can we see this regulation as it will be? The design currently consists only of titles. So I ask what are these supported activities for § 3 and what is the amount of support and self-financing. I think there's a finger mistake here too. § 4 is missing from between, unless it's classified.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U73	Thank you. The operational programme is finally clarified in the course of the procedure for this draft; it is currently general. We hope to get the general implementation services to work by 1 September, and by then the regulation will also be in place.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U74	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U75	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Did I hear you correctly, as you once mentioned, that applicants and those who are supported can also conclude long-term contracts? Is this also the case if the tax is less due? Or how do you predict how much we get in x tax?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U76	Thank you. This has nothing to do with this bill again. It is the amendment to the Gambling Tax Act that gives certainty to the long-term partners, who now have to apply again every year, to prove their project. Indeed, they will have the opportunity of a new law for longer-term certainty.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U77	Meelis Mälberg.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U78	Thank you. Good Minister, you said several times that nothing will change for those applying for benefits from the Gambling Tax Council, the beneficiaries. My question is about sports money, which is moving into the EOK. It is known that according to the current system, the Gambling Tax Board has mainly received support from non-Olympiads and the EOK mainly from Olympiads. How do you take away your fears and ensure that there are no very big setbacks for the current beneficiaries?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U79	Thank you. Not all sports money goes through the EOK. The principle is that the proportions for the current beneficiaries remain broadly the same. Whether you believe in it or not, I admit that the possibility of sharing political money is reduced by the fact that some politicians who are currently on the Gambling Tax Council can support a project close to their heart there. This opportunity is really decreasing, and I can totally understand this concern.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U80	Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U81	Thank you. Mr. Minister! I asked you in the Commission about water and sewerage projects, do individuals now receive support to join the networks? You said yes, but I have a very specific question. If there are dozens of similar projects on the same territory, do those who wish to join the network, for example, have the possibility to join the network, I do not mean one individual with a specific address to make the project cheaper? Do 10, 20 or 30 owners get to join? Does this possibility come from this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U82	Thank you. This draft law does not spell out exactly which criteria and conditions they must submit to the ministries of industry. It is right that the Ministry of the Environment prepares such support: natural persons will have the opportunity to receive support for joining central sewerage. But I really can't answer you today on exactly what terms that is possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U83	Dear waitress, there are no further questions for you. Before I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, I shall make it clear that I have checked and § 4 is included in the draft law, and there is also an explanation of § 4 in the explanatory memorandum. Did we get this all wrong? I'm saying this for people who might ever read a verbatim. But if we've got something wrong, then there's gonna be a round of negotiations. Mr. Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U84	The Commission discussed this draft law at its regular meeting on 7 May. There was also the Minister of Finance who presented the bill. Today's introductory speech was practically the same as that of the Commission, and I will not repeat it. After that, there was a debate during which five questions were put. One concerned the connection to the water and sewerage networks, which I mentioned here in my second question. It was also a question of whether people who, for example, have joined the networks in previous periods and paid for it, would be able to apply for this money back. The answer was no, I can't. Then there was another question that sounded like this during the debate: where are all those people from EAS, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Rural Affairs who are currently working on it? This has also been the subject of an explanation in this debate that they are going to the Centre for Support Services. There was also a concise question as to what this bill gives us. It gives you the chance to get 36 services out of one pipe, as they say. Finally, there was a brief debate in the Committee on Monetary Affairs that we have been presented at the beginning of this year with a plan that we should receive nine draft laws from the Ministry of Finance, plus the state budget, plus all the analyses and other theoretical things that the Commission must discuss. So far, only one bill has been received from this list and the burden that the Committee on Monetary Affairs is facing, in addition to the state budget procedure, is quite awful. There was a promise that the answer would come and that this would be speeded up. The Commission adopted four procedural decisions, all of which were consensual. The chairman of the committee was appointed as co-rapporteur and it was proposed that the Riigikogu Bureau take the draft to the discussion hall by today, 15 May, and finish the first reading. The deadline for amendments was set at 4 p.m. on 25 May. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U85	Any questions for the waitress? There aren't any. Thank you very much for the waitress. I am opening negotiations for the representatives of the political groups to discuss the general principles of the draft law. That's not what you want. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 628. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft at 4 p.m. on 25 May.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U86	Today's second item: First reading of the Act on Supplementing the Citizenship Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Minister of the Interior, Andres Anvelt, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U87	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Dear Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic will submit a draft law supplementing the Citizenship Act to the Riigikogu, supplementing the law with the possibility of concluding language learning agreements. According to the draft law, the Citizenship Act provides for a regulation concerning the organisation of language training for foreigners legally residing in Estonia for at least five years, who fulfil the basic conditions for applying for citizenship and who wish to apply for Estonian citizenship. First of all, the Government of the Republic has submitted this draft to the Riigikogu. There are still a considerable number of permanent residents of undefined citizenship living in Estonia and citizens of other countries living in Estonia in the long term who, according to surveys, would like to apply for Estonian citizenship but have failed to meet the necessary requirements. The main reason is Estonian, i.e. an examination of the language level needed to obtain Estonian citizenship. According to the monitoring of the integration of Estonian society, this is, as I said, one of the main reasons for learning the Estonian language at the required level. Surely there are often material reasons for this. The possibility of learning Estonian for adults free of charge has been offered by the state since 1998, but so far they have not been specifically linked to the acquisition of citizenship. With the addition proposed in the draft, we wish to create a supportive environment for applying for and obtaining Estonian citizenship, which is much more flexible than the available language learning opportunities, and also provides access to target groups who have so far found it difficult to participate in language learning. In particular, these changes support economically disadvantaged people; on the other hand, they allow people to participate in language learning without losing their income. Applying for citizenship must not go beyond the fact that a person is unable to pay for studies in Estonian or to find time to study the language alongside his or her duties. For this reason, the draft regulation states that the state pays directly for the language courses: the person does not have to wait four to five months for the courses to be compensated afterwards. Similarly, so far many have not been able to attend language courses as they take place during work. This is why we allow state-guaranteed study leave to participate in language courses. In order to participate in Estonian language courses, the person signing the contract is paid a language tuition allowance on the basis of an average salary of 20 calendar days for the days spent on study leave, the times taken in the language course. It is clear that, of course, he also needs an agreement with his employer. The amendment allows an alien eligible for citizenship who wishes to study the Estonian language for the purpose of obtaining citizenship to enter into an agreement providing for the rights and obligations of the parties to receive language training and reimbursement. A contract can be concluded with a person who is at least 15 years old, who has lived legally in Estonia for at least five years, as I said before, who has not participated in the study of the Estonian language funded by the state in the last two years and who is not subject to grounds for refusal of citizenship, such as, as you know, judicial punishment or earlier service in foreign security institutions or the military. The presence of grounds for granting or refusing nationality shall be verified by the Police and Border Guard Board at the request of the language teacher. The language study agreement is deemed to be fulfilled if the alien has completed the prescribed course of Estonian language, passed a B1 level language examination on a positive grade and submitted an application for citizenship no later than one year after passing the language examination. If a foreigner fails to comply with the contract, the language training organisation shall start the procedure for recovering the study costs and the compensation paid. If there are compelling reasons for non-compliance (e.g. illness), the language teacher may exempt him from the obligation to repay. The language training is organised according to the draft by the Applied Higher Education School, i.e. the National Defence Academy, located in the area of government of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. The internal defence academy will decide on the optimal way to organise language learning. The purchase of services is not excluded in order to involve a partner with sector specific knowledge, skills and experience in the field of language learning provided to the target group in the performance of administrative tasks. Expenditure on the implementation of the law includes labour, language training and management costs as well as reimbursement costs. As the capacity of the state to provide language learning is limited, it is necessary to limit the number of participants. To this end, the draft stipulates that the Minister of the Interior can determine the number of study places for language learning on the basis of the terms of the mandate. The state budget strategy for 2019 has targeted the Ministry of the Interior's budget at EUR 300000, which certainly includes communication, advertising and contracting costs. The remaining amounts are assigned to the reserve of the Ministry of Finance, as the number of people who want to be in the reserve may vary from year to year. That's all for short.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U88	There are also questions for the rapporteur. Valeri Korb.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U89	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I see from here that an alien can be released from the obligation to pay back the costs of language learning and the compensation if he or she is unable to perform the contract for good reason. If you were discussing this, maybe you'd like to bring some of the options that might be the reasons why you're releasing people from this money.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U90	Thank you. The solution comes from discretion each time. The simplest example of good cause is disease, as I said. There may be other reasons, such as family reasons, when a person has to stay away. For example, leaving a loved one may cause family responsibilities with regard to dependants, etc. These solutions will certainly be assessed on a case-by-case basis.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U91	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U92	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, We have also had several talks about Estonian-language houses in this Chamber of the Riigikogu. How does the proposed law relate to Estonian-language houses? How have you planned whether all this education will be taken to Estonian-language houses? How's that connection even figured out?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U93	Thank you. This connection is directly thought through. Since it may take some time to start the Estonian language houses, it is as you can see from point 1 of the draft that it will be carried by the National Defence Academy first. He concludes these agreements, but he will also freely buy in language teachers or language courses on the market. In the future, when the organisation of the Estonian language houses has started to the extent necessary, we will see an opportunity to pass on this training. So we have done this in very close contact with the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Education and Research. We certainly have no intention of planning the functioning of Estonian-language houses in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U94	Hanno Pevkur.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U95	Thank you, good minister. We discussed this issue in the Commission a little bit, but I will also ask in front of the big Chamber whether we need this legislative amendment at all. In fact, it is possible to organise language learning on other grounds: the Ministry simply announces the procurement and, through it, searches the organisers, rather than saying it all in law. In my opinion, this is a bad practice at all when the Riigikogu appoints a specific school in one law. There are no more schools in the area of the Ministry of Interior than the National Defence Academy alone. And if you don't name the National Defence Academy, that doesn't mean the National Defence Academy isn't written into the law. In the interests of transparency and the protection of market participants, it might make sense to consider at least that we are taking away this reference to school from here and that public procurement is also being made here. And secondly, I ask you if you think it would have been possible to solve this language learning problem without a change of law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U96	Thank you. That's a good question from you, Hanno. This same legislative amendment has also arisen during long discussions. What I want to say is that we are actually imposing certain obligations on the citizen here: firstly, to complete this course relating to the acquisition of citizenship, and certainly there will also be an obligation to recover. So this is a language course specifically designed to apply for citizenship. We have so many of them, I don't remember whether I said it or not, but I can say it now, who does different language courses. For example, the Ministry of Culture makes them for intertwined permanent residents and new immigrants, the Ministry of Education and Research for employees of the educational and public sectors, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund for unemployed and at risk of exclusion, the Ministry of Justice for detainees and the Ministry of the Interior for new immigrants, plus a free market. This is where we come to the next thing that such a direct action is actually needed for a person who wants to have citizenship. We must make the most of the effort in the country to have great motivation. I dare say that we continue to have a disgraceful number of stateless people. That is why we are introducing this additional measure into the law that, in addition to language learning, study leave can also be taken (this is a little different in wording, but we all understand) if a person is paid 20 days' compensation for loss of income on the basis of his average salary. The maximum benefit is the average wage of the Estonian state if the person has an agreement with the employer that he or she can commit systematically to language learning for 20 days a year in order to achieve a certain level of language learning. By the way, we have also discussed this: in the future, we may have thoughtfully offered the person an integration plan within 20 days, i.e. he is staying for these 20 days in another part of Estonia, where he does not have the opportunity to speak any language other than Estonian. But these are all future plans. In any case, I want to emphasise why it is all written in the law, which you have asked about, Hanno. In particular, because the State will have obligations and the person who wants to become a citizen will also have obligations, a contract will be concluded. But language learning will be bought in, as has been said here, free from the market, we will not make competition worse in any way.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U97	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U98	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I will continue with Mr Pevkur's question. Now, with the last sentence, you have said that there is competition in the free market. But, as we know, the technology of language teaching has changed a great deal today, and the language can be learned very quickly in a very short time. Is there enough competition to teach the Estonian language at a modern level?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U99	I think that it is important for people to learn the language. The specifics are very important, the professional language, which is becoming increasingly complex, is very important. In particular, the language of communication is needed in order to gain citizenship, and the levels of this language of communication are important here. For example, when we talk about people who are unemployed or at risk of exclusion, language learning may be linked to what a person wants to specialize in. For example, when we are talking about medical workers who come from abroad to work in Estonia, they definitely need a specialized language once again, provided by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I think that we can talk about general competition when it comes to language learning for citizenship, and such learning is best covered on the Estonian market. I would like to stress once again that it is not with the forces of the National Defence Academy that we are going to teach this language. We buy in this service on the market, which must meet certain standards. The average person, as they say, must be able to achieve, within a certain period of time, the level of Estonian language required to pass the B1 exam in order to gain citizenship.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U100	Raivo Põldaru.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U101	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! You just said a few minutes ago that the bill was born during the discussions at the Ministry. But were those people suddenly involved in these discussions who have just not submitted an application for citizenship and failed to pass a language examination because of this legislative gap? In other words, how popular does this law still prove to be, how many people are now rushed by this law because of our citizenship posts? Is there any such records?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U102	I tell you this: 55% of the 77000 stateless people have expressed their wish to have Estonian citizenship. They have different reasons why they have not met the conditions. But one of the most important reasons is that is the amount of language learning, which is EUR 400.500, and which, by the way, is rising year after year. According to the current rules, if you are unemployed or detained, for example, you will receive this education at the expense of the state, but if you are studying the language for self-development and obtaining Estonian citizenship, you will actually have to pay it in advance. After it is paid to you within six months of being paid up afterwards, it is expensive and does not motivate people. We have engaged partners through ministries, be it the Integration Foundation, be it Innove. They have also been in these discussions, and these organisations are specifically exposed to the group you mentioned every day. On top of that, I want to say one more thing. Interest in this topic has been reduced in the Estonian media, because it does not concern Estonian citizens and people whose home language is Estonian. But I dare you to say that, after we described this topic in the Russian media in Estonia, the feedback that comes to both the media and the ministry has been very, very great. Last week, I and several of my colleagues had an obligation and opportunity to introduce this topic to Estonian Russian media channels from ETV+ to Radio 4. People are already asking where to register. We can't tell them this day yet, but we'll start communication in the fall.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U103	Hanno Pevkur, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U104	Thank you. I'm still going to continue my path, where I started. You said there's a whole lot of those who teach and carry out language training right now. All the more so if we have a large number of them, from the Integration Foundation to different ministries, maybe you can specify what the target group for which this education is intended: Estonians who live here who do not have citizenship or immigrants? If we're talking about new immigrants, there's a program for them. Maybe you're going to be more specific about who the government wants to offer this language training, what money and when.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U105	I think I've already told you all this, but I'm happy to talk about it again. First of all, for public money. What else is there for? That's one thing. The other thing is, when we talk about who, it's also written in the bill. This concerns people who have lived in Estonia permanently and legally for at least five years. Above all, of course, the sharp is aimed at people who have lived here in Estonia for a long time and who do not have any nationality. It is these who have the greatest motivation to enter this programme, because many others have parallel programmes to move forward.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U106	Please, Laine Randjärv!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U107	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, I have a slightly similar question, like Hanno Pevkur's, in terms of detail. The draft law contains the words 'language training for foreigners', but later the explanation, table includes both those who are stateless persons and those who actually come from abroad to live here. Does this mean that the term 'foreigner' also applies to people with grey passports who live in Estonia? It's the first time I've heard it's defined that way. Shouldn't it be written in detail in the law? That's my first question. I'll ask you later.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U108	Thank you. I'm sure that's what we mean by stateless people. The Minister cannot take the poison right now in front of you: if there is a little mistake here, we will correct it in the course of this procedure that it also means the stateless people. But a bit of a text needs to be looked at, perhaps, in the Citizenship Act, this matter will be looked at more widely, i.e. also covered by stateless people. I'm sure the direction is that there's both one and the other. If there's one thing you've come up with right now, that's a very good point. But I'm gonna have to let the specialists work on the bill a little bit. If there's a mistake, there's a big bow for you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U109	Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U110	Thank you, good waitress. In my understanding, the Citizenship Act should deal with the institution of citizenship and the rules for obtaining it. I'm certainly not a specialist in this field, it might sound too easy, but I think so. Now, you are suddenly talking about language learning within the Citizenship Act. Haven't you had any disputes about this in the government? For example, did the Minister of Justice not say that talking about some kind of learning is over-regulation at the level of the law, especially at the level of the Citizenship Act?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U111	Thank you. That is a very correct question. We certainly discussed this more than once whether there was any way we could solve the problem with lower-level legislation. For example, as Mr Pevkur pointed out here, simply by declaring a contract. The only reason is, in fact, the specific nature of our legal system: if we impose obligations on a person, as well as obligations and rights on the state to recover sums and all other things, we cannot do so by means of sub-level acts. That is precisely what we must do under the law. During the long discussions, which included the Ministry of Justice, we came to the understanding that a form of language learning is needed that is aimed specifically at obtaining citizenship and which leads to obligations for the parties, including the same requirement that once a person has completed the course, he or she will also apply for our citizenship during the year. If he does not do so, the state will start a recovery process because the person has not followed the meaning of this law. It is the weakness of language learning that we have the biggest problem in achieving citizenship that I still do not say weakness, because language learning is good, or rather the fact that language learning has to be paid for. So I think that if we bring in specific language learning for citizenship, this is a step forward and motivates people who want to have Estonian citizenship, but for some reason the same up to 500 euros has been an obstacle.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U112	March Sults.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U113	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! Respect for the Innove language immersion centre: they do a very good job. I've personally been in contact with them for about six years. But the question is: why have you entrusted such a task to the Innove language study unit? They have done the immersion and taught the Russians to speak Estonian throughout Estonian history, but unfortunately, so far not all Russians speak Estonian in Estonia. So they've actually failed on their project. How can you make a new order to the failed project manager?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U114	Thank you. We're talking about a free market, we're not making a direct order. This was just one example: they have so far been the ones with a lot of practice, most people have been through them. I'm sure you can make a criticism. But this draft does not specifically concern Innovet, but whether we are adopting certain rights and obligations by law. When the National Defence Academy starts to draw up contracts and make communications, we buy in the service freely from the market, from those who are still able to provide the service.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U115	Laine Randjärv, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U116	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I have a second point of clarification regarding the citizenship exam. If the completion of the language examination is actually part of the conditions for obtaining citizenship, how is it laid down in the Language Act or how is it laid down in the Citizenship Act? Some kind of change is expected to be needed. And if Estonian citizenship is requested by a person who has been well trained in language, but who has a weak second part concerning our culture, history and knowledge of laws, how can we balance it so that we can finally achieve the "perfect quality" of the person who receives it?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U117	This is a very good and very right question, by the way, because the citizenship exam is not just a language, although it takes the most part of it, because through the language you also reach culture, state and everything else. And these are already lower-level activities that the National Defence Academy has to deal with: the conclusion of administrative contracts, the development of competitive conditions, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U118	March Sults.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U119	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! Your answer prompted the question to continue. I mean, if this service is purchased in a public competition, can non-legal persons, i.e. schools that are successfully involved in immersion and language training, I am thinking of Russian language learning, be able to participate in this competition as individual candidates? Or must the municipality unit or city government, city or council take part in this competition?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U120	Thank you. Good colleague! I think that is a very technical question. The National Defence Academy must start to develop these things when the law is passed. That's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U121	Thank you very much, Minister, for your presentation and debate. Mart Nutt will make a presentation of the commission, representing the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U122	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Constitutional Commission discussed the draft, including at the ordinary Constitutional Committee meeting of 8 May. In addition to the members and advisors of the Commission, representatives of the Ministry of the Interior were invited to the debate: Minister of the Interior Andres Anvelt, Adviser to the Minister of the Interior Kristen Kanarik, Head of the Department of Citizenship and Migration Policy of the Ministry of the Interior Ruth Annus and advisers of the same department Koidu Bee and Martin Tulut. At the meeting of the Commission, the Minister of the Interior, Mr Anvelt, gave a comprehensive overview of the circumstances behind the draft, who was still doing so at the plenary session of the Riigikogu. The debate on this bill focused, I dare say, on more formal than substantive issues. The Minister of the Interior gave answers to these questions in general in this House. I will mark some of the questions that were of interest to the Members of the Commission. One question was whether a separate law was needed or whether this problem could be solved within the framework of an existing law, for example. It was asked whether it would not be enough to give the Government of the Republic a rule of law to organise such language training. In that case, the amendment of the Citizenship Act would not have to be dealt with in substance. Here the representative of the Ministry of the Interior replied that since the proposed amendments regulate the rights and obligations of individuals, including the obligation to apply for citizenship, such regulation can only be established at the level of the law. The words 'obligation to apply for citizenship' are probably a little misleading, because no one can, of course, oblige anyone to apply for citizenship, that is the free will of every person. As a result, the question may undoubtedly arise as the application for citizenship relates to free will, whether such regulation is necessary at all. This issue was also raised during the Commission's debate. The explanation was that if the state did not participate in the organisation of language training related to citizenship, this law would probably not be necessary. Since the state also provides for a specific institution, the National Defence Academy, which has been assigned a separate task of organising this training, this requires a change of law. Next, the question was also: why has the National Defence Academy dealt with this issue in the past? The answer was no: the Academy of Home Affairs has never dealt with this before. But the National Defence Academy would be a suitable place from the point of view of the state to organise this education. There are few Estonian language teachers and the state's contribution would be important in this case. The Commission also asked why these provisions should be included in the Citizenship Act, whether another law would not be more suitable for this. Unfortunately, the answer comes from the Constitution. § 8 of the Constitution regulates citizenship issues, I would say, in excessive detail, but what is stated in the Constitution, it says there is no over or around it. And the Constitution states very clearly that the rules on citizenship issues must be incorporated into the Citizenship Act. This means that the Constitution does not give a mandate to resolve citizenship-related issues in other laws, namely the Citizenship Act. Another interesting part of the debate was terminology. Jüri Adams, Member of the Commission, raised this issue by emphasising some terms. For him, the unfamiliar concept of a "learning module" is unfamiliar. He asked what 'learning' means and what'reimbursement' means, wouldn't it be 'compensation'? I would not go into this part of the debate because it is not about the substance of the draft, but about how one or the other MP or expert assesses the content of these terms. You can probably argue about this matter forever or agree on it. At the same time, there are reasons for using different terms. So this angle can't be very rigid. However, it can be said that the Commission was unanimous in its decisions. The Commission's procedural decisions were as follows: to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda by 15 May, including a consensus decision, to propose that the first reading of the draft be stopped (also a consensual decision), to propose a deadline of 10 working days for amendments, i.e. 5.15 p.m. on 29 May (consensual decision), to appoint Mart Nutt, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs as rapporteur (consensus decision). I will also read the names of the members of the Constitutional Committee that made these consensual decisions: Helmut Hallemaa, Jaak Madison, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Jüri Adams, Marko Pomerants, Mart Nutt, Mikhail Korb and Tiit Terik. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U123	The Hatter will ask the first question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U124	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! The explanatory memorandum states that the weakness of the current system is that nearly 20% of people fall out of language courses for various reasons. According to the bill, 1000 people are prepared to teach. Did you discuss in the Commission how many people who have successfully completed language training and apply for citizenship as a result of this legislative amendment?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U125	Thank you. The Commission received the same figures as those given in the explanatory memorandum but was not focused on them in the Commission. And I think it would be very difficult, if not impossible, to predict how many people will pass the language course as a result of this change. It's an additional opportunity. However, we will stick to the fact that applying for citizenship is voluntary for everyone, as well as attending language courses is voluntary for everyone, and there is no way to oblige or force a state here. Basically, you can make all kinds of predictions, but I don't dare say how reliable these predictions are. I don't think they add much. In this sense, we can say that the Commission does not have any further information on this.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U126	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U127	Thank you. Dear waitress, Maybe I'm going to ask you a question that gets the same answer you just gave me, but I'm going to ask you, because it requires a more subjective assessment from you. If you look at this bill and anticipate its effects, can it be assumed that there will be some kind of positive boom or a new leap of development when you learn the Estonian language, and that the integration process will also progress better?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U128	Thank you. It's not very good practice if I slip into subjectivity. I do not think that there will be a boom, but there will certainly be an increase in the number of people who are going to learn Estonian with the aim of achieving citizenship. It is highly questionable to talk about figures, because the fact is that lack of language skills is one of the reasons why Estonian citizenship has not been requested, but not the only reason. We actually see people who either have a grey alien's passport or the passport and citizenship of another country, although their knowledge of the Estonian language is quite sufficient to apply for Estonian citizenship. In short, there are other motivations why Estonian citizenship has not been requested. I have not been asked this question, but Mr Randjärv asked before whether a person with a grey passport was a foreigner. It's an alien's passport. In general, international practice in defining an alien is such that an alien is a person who is not a national of that country. So in that sense, the answer is yes, it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U129	Thank you very much. Dear waitress, there are no further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Hanno Pevkur on behalf of the Reform Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U130	Ladies and gentlemen, The biggest problem with this draft is overregulation. We don't really need this bill. Language learning can certainly be supported by the state, and there is no problem at all. The problem with this draft is that, by complementing the Citizenship Act, the few points that I mentioned in my own questions, for example, that we generally tend not to define a specific recipient of funds in the law, it is said that the Academy of Internal Defence will receive money. But I come now to the principles of the Citizenship Act, to the principles of citizenship at all. There has always been one principle of citizenship in Estonia and it is that a person must have expressed his or her wish for citizenship. The prerequisite for obtaining citizenship is that a person takes an exam, or two exams: one is a language examination; the other is a constitutional examination. In addition, a person must have lived in Estonia for a certain time. If the assumption is that the state will compensate for language learning after a person has lived here for five years, I ask why he has not learned the language, which has been these obstacles. The financial obstacle is certainly not the only argument, especially when a person has lived here for five years, because it is very likely that he has worked here. If you look at the solutions that could be done without changing the law, one solution would be for people to learn their own language courses, for money, and then the state will compensate for those in need, for those who are in the worst position. Such a system would be much fairer and more transparent than such a scheme that we are making an amendment to the Citizenship Act, under which someone has the right to receive money in advance, and if he does not learn the language, the state will demand the money back from him. This would be a highly bureaucratic and highly complex scheme. As we know, it is more difficult to recover any given amount of money than to make an obligation for a person to learn something for his or her money and to know that if he or she has made this investment in himself or in a language study, the state will compensate for it if necessary. By the way, there's no need to change the law. The Citizenship Act must, however, address a person's wish to become a citizen of one country based on his or her free will and the conditions under which he or she becomes a citizen and not what is necessary in order to fulfil these conditions. So I'm going to ask the government: it's nice of us to teach language, but where's the rule of law? So, are we gonna put the lawroom teaching in here too? Why are we taking only one component of the three preconditions for citizenship now to compensate the state? I dare say that people's knowledge of the legal space comes much harder than knowledge of the language space. Language can still be learned, if you live here, there are people who communicate in different environments at least at the level required for the language examination. But learning the law area, knowledge of the constitution requires a separate interest in citizenship and also learning. So to see if we want to solve the problem of citizenship, this bill is half the equation. If we want to increase bureaucracy, it is an exact equation. The first reading may end here, but my recommendation to the government is to withdraw the bill, because this bill is not really necessary. We have other solutions to the problems of language learning that are being tried to solve here. This does not require the right to write more in Estonia. Estonian entrepreneurs have also said that we have too much bureaucracy. With this draft, we will only create bureaucracy in conditions and conditions where it is not needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U131	On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Free Party Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U132	Mr President! Dear Minister, Good people's representatives! The Free Party Group supports the proposed bill, but I very much agree here with my colleague, Mr Pevkur. We still need to think about a further step forward on how to bring a person who has acquired a language to the next stage so that he really gets to citizenship. And what I want to emphasise is the introduction of this bill, the opening up of a new opportunity. It is not enough that the Ministry or the National Defence Academy makes a press release. You know, we have such great places as Alutaguse and Peipsiääre, where we also need to talk about this opportunity, do it in a simple and understandable Estonian language and say that it is now part of the work that has been done in Estonia for a very long time. So the power, the wisdom and the success of this bill! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U133	Are there any other requests to speak? If the Minister does not want to exercise his right to speak, § 71 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures gives this possibility, I will close the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 629. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft at 5.15 p.m. on 29 May.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U134	Today's third item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Basic School and Upper Secondary Schools Act and the Private Schools Act, initiated by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. Jürgen Ligi, member of the Riigikogu, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U135	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! This bill has been drawn up at the Ministry of Education, which I run. I am not building myself with foreign feathers, but I think the bill is necessary, although it has not been allowed to continue to the Riigikogu. Here we are talking about constitutional values. First of all, the state has a duty to ensure a level playing field in education and a uniform quality of education in social, regional, etc. On the other hand, there are small complications in this harmonisation requirement. The state is, in some ways, divided into municipalities and central government, and the requirements of autonomy apply here. The autonomy of the municipalities is certainly a sacred value which we must also consider in the context that the schoolmaster is mostly a municipality. The country is making very different efforts to ensure a level playing field in education. He trains, invests, consults, inspects, guarantees educational resources, organises examinations... This line of words could probably be much longer, but there is one element in which we believe the country has been weak, it is the direction of school management. For certain reasons, we have also been great advocates of autonomy in the case of teachers, also in the case of schools, not only in the case of schoolchildren, and this has been one of the strengths of the Estonian school. However, if it is seen that schools do not provide a uniform education, then it may also be necessary to intervene in the management of schools. They are not all offering a very uniform education, although it can be said that Estonia is the best in this sense in the world, at a very high level. We are able to offer a very uniform quality of school education. However, there are examples where school management has stagnated, but nothing can be done. School leaders and local government leaders are so closely intertwined, everyone is their own people, so objective assessment comes very hard. That is why this draft proposes, in principle, an amendment to two paragraphs. One is talking about changing paragraph 'Director'. This section talks about what the director must do, it talks about education, education, performance, development plan, curriculum, representation of the school, internal organisation, etc. In order to extend this section, the Minister proposes that the Board of Directors should be composed of at least a representative of the Ministry of Education and Research, a national association of local authorities and a registered association of school leaders. This would certainly be a committee under some ministerial control, but the idea is still that it is not a political institution, but an expert group analysing the school's performance will assess whether the director has performed his functions and whether his qualifications meet the requirements of the law. These requirements of the Act are in § 74, which is also covered by this bill. For qualifications, keywords such as organizational development, development management, learning environment design, human resources management, resource management and self-management are those things that the director has to deal with and can evaluate. We offer that this evaluation will take place at least once every five years and will draw some conclusions for all directors, make recommendations to school leaders, if necessary, give precepts and, in extreme cases, propose the removal of the school manager. We also have a line in the draft that says that financial sanctions can also be applied, but I think that this would be very exceptional and extreme, not a basic form of influence. However, the main form of influence is, I believe, the attention of society, the director's advice and other forms of assistance. If it doesn't work, you have to swallow such a shame. If it has been proven to be a poor director, the interests of children have not been at the forefront of municipal choices, quality has not been at the forefront. Rather, the interests of the Director have been taken into account. I think such an assessment is one of the very good ways of influencing local governments, not to say that it is a matter of great political weight. So I ask everyone to support this bill. There's no political secret agreement back here. The process has been long coordinated and, as I understand it, the school leaders' association has also understood the need for this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U136	The Laine Randjärv opens the round of questions. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U137	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! This bill concerns the directors of all schools, be they state, local government or private schools. The Committee on Culture received only a protest letter from Christian private schools. In their view, according to the criteria set out in this bill, it should not be possible to assess the directors of Christian private schools. How do you feel about that? Do the management and worldview of the school collective necessarily have to be so divided on this issue of the assessment of directors?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U138	Thank you. There's no way I can rule out that some world-view conditions might be problematic for directors. I do not take the role of this committee, but if there is some kind of unscience being promoted at school, or if there is some kind of relationship that society does not approve of, I mean human relations in such an abstract way, without trying to define it in any way, then this is one of the indicators of qualifications. The education system is, however, how to say, science-based, isn't it? But I'm glad there were so few protesters. There was another Christian organization, and we received two letters. I think they didn't read the bill properly, and there was too much fear. I am pleased that it is accepted that the state, too, generally regulates private schools on this ground, there was no resentment. However, all schools must perceive the social responsibility they have and use this assessment as an opportunity to prove that their leadership is good and that they do not need any handicap, if I may say so, perhaps easier treatment. I am pleased that this protest is so narrow, and I believe that it is also because Christian schools have failed to read the bill thoroughly.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U139	Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U140	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, According to the legislative amendment before us, the evaluation committee would evaluate the work and competence of the school directors once every five years. Once upon a time, the employment contracts of the principals have also been fixed-term, five years long. Was this opportunity discussed this time?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U141	Thank you. That is a good question that several people asked for in the first reaction. Do we have lifetime directors? In fact, it is not about whether the contract is fixed-term or not. However, the responsibility of the head of the school and what to deny there would be a good thing if the state had the opportunity to raise that sense of responsibility. As a draft waitress, I would say that, as a rule, no organisation should be prescribed forms of employment contract. This should be a very well-founded option, and I am not in favour of it in itself. There was also talk about this in the Committee on Culture, and there was a former headmaster, now an education officer, who also said that the evaluation committee was the optimal solution. Once, a mistake was made with the abolition of the term of the contracts and the optimal way to improve it could be an evaluation committee, which is indeed both options. Five years is just a deadline, but the assessment is still substantive and State intervention and the responsibility of the municipality should ultimately produce a good result. At the same time, the autonomy of the municipality remains in the sense that we will not tell it in advance whether a fixed-term contract or an open-ended contract will be concluded with the Director.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U142	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U143	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, My question concerns this assessment of directors. How will the quality of the Director's work be assessed according to this draft? We know that there are PISA tests, there are assessments in schools, which are currently in the process of major change, the progress of students to other schools of employment, to higher education, to drop out of school. Would you describe in a few words what the high quality of the Director's work is besides performing the duties of the Director?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U144	Thank you. I previously mentioned paragraphs 71 and 74, which are now being amended, there are these tasks, and I wouldn't repeat them. But this committee has the power to make its own assessments. At the same time, it is about evaluating the educational strategy. More and more emphasis is placed on school progress, on the outcome of his work: either it gets better or it gets worse. If the school is very much off the right track, then, of course, the pace of improvement also counts a lot. If, after all, we have a very weak school - fortunately, we do not have a very weak school in general - there is only little improvement, a very vigorous improvement is needed. But I would not be in the role of this committee here. I think that the proposed level of regulation is enough to leave them the right to weigh.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U145	Valdo Randpere.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U146	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I'll look at the bill and the explanatory statement. One could also say that this evaluation committee is being carried out, consisting of old people and assessing old people. Has the idea been put forward, or has it also been under discussion, that representatives of student organisations may be a member of the evaluation committee, or are they too immature to do so? What's your personal opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U147	Thank you. I'm not such a big democrat to think that working collectives, though grown-up people, could choose their superiors and students from their teachers. At the same time, the assessment of students' satisfaction is one of the strategic orientations of education, which, without any doubt, will also be taken into account when assessing the Director. But I'm not a very big Democrat. When a student comes to appreciate a teacher, there is a very high risk of subjectivity and emotionality, as well as how to say group thinking. It sounds backwards, but I've been in that role, so I've actually been to school. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] I can't believe it, but in retrospect, I highly appreciate those teachers with whom during school there were the most conflicts. However, it was not quite one with some of them, and I still appreciate them. But some of the teachers I was teasing at the time, we had a polite school, didn't bully much, but still a small element of spite and conflict was with some teachers, but afterwards we are immensely grateful to them for the high quality of our learning. My school nurse is not sitting here right now, but we have just remembered our Estonian teacher in this sense: she was evil, no one hated her, but how grateful we are for her reaching this level of language. Perhaps a bad personal example, but still a reason why this draft has such content.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U148	Please, Liina Kersna!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U149	Thank you, President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! The Civil Service Act was amended a few years ago, according to which mostly five-year contracts were concluded with top civil service managers. Its aim was for the system to become more transparent, so that rotation would take place. This draft then provides not for five-year employment contracts, but for an assessment of qualifications, for example at five years. However, perhaps you are still trying to explain why a fixed-term contract is not sufficiently justified in the case of the headmaster?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U150	Thank you. This may be sufficiently justified, but it is not sufficiently justified to prescribe it by the central government if the schoolkeeper is the municipality. After all, this top executive is direct how to say, subordinate to the government or the Riigikogu. In short, he's such a very central phenomenon, the people we employ, we decide. We can write this law so that everyone knows that the profession is of a fixed-term nature. Whether this is always the best choice is a question of its own, but that is indeed the decision of the Civil Service Act. In the case of schools, this ratio is usually mediated, although I do not believe that fixed-term contracts are applied in state secondary schools, have not been checked. I think it's rather beautiful to show such a little graceful autonomy. This fixed-term contract can always be renewed. If the sovereigns are bad, they also agree with the bad director and may renew his contract. But the content of this draft is precisely an element of evaluation and intervention, not so much as the length of the term of office of one director. Anyway, the schoolkeeper decides who he chooses. So that's what I think we should stick to.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U151	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U152	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable representative and waitress of the initiator of the bill! You have noted, and this is also in the explanatory memorandum to the draft law and in the draft law itself, that the evaluation committee should be a representative of the Ministry of Education and Research, a representative of the heads of education and certainly a representative of the local government association. Have you ever considered that there is a body of care in all schools that includes parents? Would it make sense for the evaluation committee to offer a parent representation?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U153	Thank you. The same question was asked about student representation, maybe I didn't exactly answer. Indeed, this draft proposes a minimum composition of the Commission, which may also include representatives of students and, in the same way, of the parents' assembly. I just think that, above all, this regulation at the level of the law is important. The composition of the Commission should not be included in the law; it could be considered by the Minister. However, how to get someone to represent all these large collections is a big question for me. Let us then conclude briefly that we are simply deciding on the level of regulation, not on who everyone could be part of the Commission. We're talking about minimum composition.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U154	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U155	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! In general, it must be accepted that a balance can be reached between a five-year term and an open-ended contract. It also provides an opportunity to ensure that the quality of school management is very good. It has been noted in the press that there are school leaders, especially in Tallinn, who are literally approximating, but the local government does not want to respond to it. This bill doesn't happen to be driven by it, does it?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U156	Thank you. Actually, it is not, but I believe that this is an opportunity to address this issue as well. I don't mean so much about the director's indiscretion, which is a very big problem, but it can be alleviated by not having contact with the principal's students in his studies, he's just an administrator. That wouldn't be very right. In general, I believe that increasing awareness of the increasing necessity, even the necessity, of the Estonian language of education will highlight this aspect more in the future. But what is there to deny, the protection of the weak directors of the local government has been more important in certain Russian-speaking regions. It also exists in small municipalities, although not so much has been said about it. Small municipalities are not enough. This aspect really becomes more important in the principle, but it was not the starting point for this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U157	March Sults.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U158	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, This bill is a run-through like this from under the bar. Basically, you're trying to make officials of the Commission look at schools and school leaders, making some terrible demands on school leaders that they must be able to do. But at the same time, you don't give the headmaster any right to decide. As you say, budgetary resources are to command, command and control the school. But there aren't any! In fact, there is a control number and the controllers are political. Look on the one side or look on the other side, that's actually the case. That's what I'm asking. If you want to require such competences from school leaders, you must also give them rights. And one right would be for the school to have legal personality and for the school to be able to deliver within the budget as the director thinks it is right. And then you can measure the result of whether it's good can be bad. Have you thought about that?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U159	Thank you. I wonder if I've run through a bar in my life. It never is! I've always tried to jump over. And I didn't quite understand how the bill could run under the bar. And this is not a subject where I could personally be approached in your form. I am not the author of this text. I have led the draft's coordination and discussions, and I believe the expert who has expressed his support for it. I haven't thought about the legal status of the school on this subject, I don't see it playing any role. But the directors, the school and the teachers in particular, we have a very large degree of autonomy, it is protected and it has been considered to be the strength of our school. However, there is one weakness in all this strength: if there is something very wrong with teaching, the interests of students are not sufficiently protected. It means the state can see, but nothing can be done. And that's the problem that the bill solves.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U160	Thomas Stone Mountain.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U161	Thank you, Mr President. Very respectable waitress! My question is about these evaluation committees: will there be a few or a few dozen? Does this mean that the evaluation committee will go to school or that the school managers will have to go to Tallinn or Tartu or somewhere else, where their performance and competence will be assessed? And another pretty interesting nuance. I'm sure there must be some kind of leverage mechanism. If the work performance or competence of the headmaster does not correspond to the weak and in this case the support granted from the state budget to this municipality is reduced, is this a precedent-creating regulation or has similar sanctions already been imposed in some other cases?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U162	Thank you. The draft shall refer to the committee to be set up for the evaluation of the Director. It seems that in the interests of practical organisation, it would be good for the Ministry to keep a stable company there. In the case of municipalities, local self-governance may have to be given priority, and the school leaders' association makes its choice of course, but they also seem to think that some people might develop a certain skill in this area. The number of committees is difficult to predict, but there are probably significantly fewer than the directors. As far as this sanction is concerned, that is a good question. I don't even know if it's a precedent. You can't deny that it's a subject you can argue about, but a certain feeling of powerlessness, you might say, frustration comes when you talk about running schools. This is the main trigger for the bill. However, when people say that things are very bad at a certain school, but the director is still in place, you might wonder what to do if words do not help, if precepts do not help, recommendations do not help, in short, no shame. Then the financial sanction in terms of pressure could be the cherry on the cake. At the same time, we can argue whether this cherry is needed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U163	Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U164	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I would also come to sanctions, but rather in the context of local government. One of the objectives of the draft is to create the possibility of reducing, where appropriate, the education allowance granted to the municipality by the State for the remuneration of directors if the municipality fails to carry out an adequate assessment of the work of one of the directors and some directors are not sufficiently qualified. Now, this is where I, as former head of government and present-day government, say that this is a matter of very many ends. The sources of money may vary between public schools, local schools and private schools. Let's say the state doesn't grant this support, but a private school still finds a way to keep a particular director in office. So I'm gonna have questions about that other sanction. Can you explain that?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U165	Thank you. This really sounds very suspicious, which you have just said: you are a municipal figure and you are already against it! You're already afraid that maybe some familiar director can... But all right. Can't be too scared. Nobody's gonna replace a schoolgirl. In summary, the market will work somewhat better when precepts are made, but nothing will change. The need for a sanction can also be considered from this point of view that the financing conditions are different. However, there is a broad discussion as to whether this sanction is needed at all. The question is well-founded. I hope it wasn't based on personal experience.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U166	Lauri Luik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U167	Thank you. Good waitress! I will continue on the subject raised by Urmas Kruus. For a young person, a school child, the example of a school, including a teacher and a schoolmaster, is also very important at home. We have also had embarrassing cases in Estonia over the years, where the headmaster has not been able to speak the official language correctly. Can you tell us how big this problem can be now in Estonia and how successfully we can eradicate this problem by applying this law?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U168	Thank you. It even seems to me that the inability of the headmaster to speak Estonian is more an exception than the fact that the headmaster does not love Estonian or Estonian. These cases may even be more than clandestine. But how much in numbers, I don't want to make an assessment. When you communicate with schools, all normal people seem to be able to communicate politely. If they have some kind of secret ambition that the state does not approve, it is not so easy to identify them by external characteristics that some statistics can be produced from it. I think that the priority of the Estonian language of education is recognised very unevenly by regions. In some areas, the emphasis is not placed on Estonian language in education, but rather on the contrary, non-Estonian education is sought. And in some cases, I think there has been preferential funding for Russian schools. But let's leave it to speculation right now, I don't have any facts, that's an empirical argument.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U169	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U170	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, We know that competition is good in every area. If there are still many wills, it guarantees certain results and quality in school. Competition contributes to students' good learning outcomes and their achievements in the future. That's the kind of thing I'm asking. I particularly like the expected impact of this draft on regional development. We know that there are schools in Tallinn and Tartu where there is a huge urge. Kids can't fit in, they don't know how to place them in time and space exactly. Could you explain a little about the impact of the draft on local government services in the region? We know that there are a lot of places in Estonia where there are strong school leaders and excellent schools, I am not going to mention my neighborhood here, but please open up the issue of regional development a little!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U171	Regional development must be reflected in the convergence of education. It is firmly anchored in wage policy. The state lays down rules on the pay of teachers, not the municipality, based on the general local level of pay. If the pay levels of teachers were different from one region to another, I think the quality of education would be more different than it is now. In the case of directors, this harmonisation is also guaranteed by these standards, but these standards, which are announced and then expressed by the Commission. Unfortunately, the fact mentioned in the introduction is that there is no good choice everywhere, and that is why the director is a slightly weaker link than teachers. In short, there's this... I take back the previous sentence, it's too complicated, but basically these standards help to keep school management regionally even.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U172	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U173	Thank you. I would like to clarify something. Can a schoolteacher, whether state, municipal or private, currently make a fixed-term contract with a school manager for, for example, five or seven years, or is it prohibited?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U174	Thank you. I'm afraid I've missed something, but I think it's okay. I can't imagine there's a ban anywhere. Years ago, an obligation was removed. This has been regretted ex post and it has now been said that an assessment obligation is necessary instead of that obligation. In other words, the obligation to evaluate instead of a compulsory contract is a better option, as the autonomy of the municipality is thus protected. And there is no assessment of the state with regard to the length of the agreement. If the governor's role as a schoolmaster is indifferent, he is also indifferent to extending the contract.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U175	Toomas Jürgenstein, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U176	Good waitress! When I look back at the Commission's debate, I assure you that we were relatively unanimous, and we did not have any particular problems there. At the same time, we were a little amazed at two protests, one of which came from the Estonian Council of Churches. In the meantime, I came across the person of the Estonian Council of Churches who wrote this appeal in essence and asked what was still bothering him. He said that he was disturbed by the second point in the explanatory memorandum, where the Director's assessment of his expertise is said to be also appreciated in terms of his values and attitudes. I tried to calm him down and said that these values and attitudes were appreciated only from the point of view of leadership, not from the point of view of whether he considered the holiday day Saturday, Sunday or Friday. Would you confirm this because it's going to be an official verbatim? Maybe he's reading it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U177	Thank you. I would not be able to respond better than to endorse and praise these words and perhaps to prolong a little. But yes, it is. At the same time, however, we cannot rule out that the management composition also includes values and their expression and orientation. Unfortunately, they do.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U178	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U179	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! In 2013, the Minister has confirmed the qualifications requirements for school directors by decree. I'm sure you're familiar with them. Do you consider that, if the new law is to be implemented, these qualification requirements set out in 2013 should be re-examined? And if it did, would it be the minister's job?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U180	Thank you. I must admit that I am not so familiar with these qualifications requirements that I could say that they do not need revision or need review. I'm not that familiar with them. But in the context of the new law, I believe that the officials concerned think as you do.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U181	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U182	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I mean, the director's expertise we've learned more or less, but what kind of competence does this evaluation committee have to have? What kind of education must be, what practical experience, what background, what know-how or what kind of capasite? That's the first half of the question. And now the other half of the question. By the general definition of work, the work shift is between the starting point and the end point. In my experience, keeping a fiver as a fiver is relatively easier than making a twor a threer. How do you assess the ratio by using the help of the municipality and the state to the school in its development? I mean, the director isn't entirely free in his decisions, he's been given a lot of precepts. I am now asking about this committee: who can still judge the Director? Perhaps this committee knows nothing about specific management work.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U183	Thank you. This can be an option if the Minister does not know anything and he succeeds in eliminating the knowledgeable person from consulting himself. He's signing a letter, but it can't be the product of his own thinking alone. He still has smart people in the ministry who make adequate decisions. The minimum requirements for the Commission are set out here. The person who represents the Ministry of Education and Research must be an educated person and also experienced in the field of education, otherwise he would not work there. Only when a very stupid minister is, can happen the other way around. And local governments have the competence to manage their schools, as well as school leaders have the competence to manage schools. Of course, it cannot be ruled out that a stupid person will appoint a commission for some stupid people, but I do not think that will happen in Estonia's circumstances. There may be some kind of political risk here, but I wouldn't overdo it. Education is not such an area.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U184	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U185	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I'm not asking about this bill, I'm asking about my stupidity. In the Ministry of Education, for example, how many drafts have been left in your drawers from your time, which you have now brought out? But more broadly, I will ask the members of your group how many drafts you could come up with have been ripened in the ministries at all. And what do they concern? It would be interesting to know how big your creative luggage really is.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U186	Thank you. It's inexhaustible, and it's in our heads, our drawers, and our lockers. However, if the text is done in the ministry under its own leadership, I think it is entirely fair to say it and to put forward a draft of the opposition, if for some reason the government does not. I think it's an honest game. You can't be more honest. If there is a need for a bill, but something happens, there is a stagnation in order not to say a stagnation engine and some other words, an innovative smoke swallow for example, then action must be taken. I do not think that there is a political point being pursued here either, otherwise it would be very much referred to as a political initiative. No, there is, however, the work of experts here, and I believe that in the educational circles it is quite unanimous that there is sometimes a need for greater external pressure on the management of schools. Another time, not always.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U187	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U188	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! I would like to ask from this key that, on many occasions when we are doing some sort of bill here, we are looking at what has taken place elsewhere in the world, either by following the example or by refraining from following the example. What about the bill? Do you have any idea whether or not the same system will work in Finland and Sweden? Finland is almost as good in the PISA tests as we are, the last time I thought it was just a little behind, Sweden is long and long behind us. Was there an international view of this draft, or is it our own invention that others can follow up on?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U189	Thank you. In any case, the background to the draft is the international view. People have it in their heads. But how much direct analogy is there in memory can deceive me if I say it, and I'm not going to present these facts. However, the Finnish system has set a great example for us, so that schools are well independent and teachers are well independent, as well as how the state can supervise. I also suspect the influence of Finland, as much as I have an idea of things.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U190	Rainer Vakra, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U191	Thank you. Dear waitress, you are a well-known and well-known man who can keep track of every euro and explain things. I read in the explanatory memorandum that the planned costs are the fees for school advisers and the costs for the members of the evaluation committee of approximately EUR 42000 per year. However, training will be carried out and evaluation tools will be developed using ESF resources. Can you specify how much ESF resources will be spent on becoming a draft law?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U192	Thank you. I am actually a man of Word, I am not an Excel man, and I cannot explain the use of every single euro, but I do know the principles by which the euro is moved in one direction or another. I believe that this use of money is practical and, although it has been said that expenditure will be covered, it is not, in conclusion, a withdrawal of money. I believe that, to sum up, it is still an income in the education system. I don't want to use the word 'investment' because it exaggerates, but that's about the point. I'm sure he'll bring the quality back. The consequences are sometimes more expensive than preventing anything.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U193	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U194	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I still didn't get an answer to my last question. You have also been Minister of Finance and Minister of Defence. How many more important drafts are there, which is why somewhere in the desks of the Ministry officials, and what are you going to come up with now? Give me a little bit of an idea how many there are and what they're dealing with.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U195	Thank you. Actually, you did get an answer. We are not idea-and-draft robbers, but if we have been involved in drafting the bill as a leader and we can see that it is stuck, after a polite break, we have the right to continue our work. There has been a great deal of complaint about why you did not do one or the other before in the field of education, too, and how you can now submit drafts when you are in opposition. I think this is a cynical complaint, but I hope your question wasn't cynical. In the Riigikogu, drafts must be submitted both in the opposition and in the coalition, if there is a need, if there is potential. In this case, I am not hiding that we used the science department's expertise to compile the text, and we would not want it to go to waste and the bill will stop. But we definitely don't steal drafts unless someone wants to present them themselves and if they're not ours. Ours is this bill in the sense that it was itself that led the process, not to the details, but the general manager is still the minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U196	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U197	Thank you, dear waitress. It wasn't long ago when we decided in this hall that the principals' contracts were timeless. Now we're going to rethink it in the sense that the headmasters, like the students, belong to the so-called examination. Do you have any information that school principals have been down a lot since then? Have these school principals in comfort status now come up?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U198	Thank you. We don't have that kind of data. Rather, it could be said that social pressure on the quality of schools has increased over time. It is felt that people's activity, social activity, or what these finer words are all about have grown, and this supervision has rather strengthened. School management has become more democratic, but there can be no statistics already because everything will become clear once the Commission has started working. Then we'll see what the estimates are. The authors of the draft act perceive the need, but they do not say what the Commission's decisions and assessments will be.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U199	Rainer Vakra, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U200	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You said, in answer to my question, that you are not Excel's man, but a man of Word, and you like to talk more about principles. I'm asking you about a principle. We see that, in the first year, you have said 'investment' and then we are based on an investment of EUR 42000 per year and training and evaluation tools being developed using ESF resources. Will investment in this area increase, remain the same or decrease according to the principle in the coming years? What about these principles, exactly? Perhaps you can introduce these principles a little more widely. Maybe we can get out of this Excel.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U201	Thank you. You need to get out of Excel, but the principle is that when it comes to euro money, it probably shouldn't be a fixed cost. Euro money should give you an impulse. Once the system has started, there will appear to be no expanding costs. It's quite routine activity, if there is a know-how and to some extent an established apparatus.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U202	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U203	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! At least five years or more ago, in the course of school supervision, the directors were asked a long 'control' questionnaire, which the supervisor, or the education department, checked the answers. Now the supervision has gone into the hands of the Ministry and supervision has gotten weaker, so the directors are no longer checked to see if they are up to their duties. What has changed now that there is again a need for supervision of directors? It used to be there.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U204	Thank you. That 'old' sounds pretty old. I don't know exactly when you're talking. [[Raivo Põldaru specifies the floor.]] It is in itself necessary to review exactly how it was, but the trend has been towards greater autonomy of schools on the one hand, but on the other hand, it has now been found that the space for intervention has been too limited and there could still be supervision. Not so much new rules of law as supervision are needed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U205	The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions for the initiator of the draft. Thank you, Jürgen Ligi! The rapporteur for the Committee on Culture is Mr Aadu Must, Chairman of the Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U206	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu discussed the draft that has just been introduced to you at its regular meeting, which took place on 8 May. Almost all the members of the Commission were present, there was no Heidy Purga. Indrek Kilk, lawyer at the Legal Department of the Ministry of Education and Research, and Mihkel Rebane, Head of the General Education Department, were also invited to participate. As today, we were introduced by our former Minister for Education, our good colleague Jürgen Ligi. The debate in the Commission was relatively short, compact, cheerful and consensual. After all, this is a bill whose general principle and content have been discussed for years. The Commission noted that this principle had been the subject of discussions since 2006. A number of options have been developed in the Ministry and, in this sense, it was indeed a typical draft: former passionate figures have found that work should also be taken home. Now, why there were few questions. Because those who have read the text of the bill do not even have questions, but those who have not read, have many questions about the subject of education. The problem is how to regulate school governance and control of school leaders. No one has said that the principle that was in force so far, i.e. the appointment of headmasters without a time limit, was bad at the time it was introduced. Any law can work in its own time. There may have been some turbulence: capable people were not willing to lead schools, especially if they were not spiritually educators and perhaps not the economic people that were needed at school at that point. A certain degree of continuity has been needed in order to get to work at school. It's not like they're gonna be put in office today, and they're gonna be kicked out tomorrow. Apparently, there were doubts about subjective choices and something else. It has now become increasingly apparent every year that, in changing circumstances, it is appropriate to keep a very close eye on the position of the school leaders, and it is precisely this plan that the presenter of this draft introduced to us. Exactly the same intention was presented to us in the draft of the Ministry of Education. Any questions? We have proposed to the initiator that the draft be presented as amended. This can be done if the originator agrees. I am talking about sanctions and our trust and respect for local government. Does it answer our level of culture to say, 'If you fucking don't, we'll punish you! ' or that we say it lightly, but we insist on remembering it anyway? The representative of the initiator of the draft act agreed with the favourable opinion. This point can obviously be removed in the course of the proceedings, as he said today. And it's that simple! It is appropriate to check the competence of directors on a regular basis in order to avoid stagnation of one point. And point two: At the same time, you have to trust the schoolkeeper and believe in his competence. But indeed, there were opinions aside. The letter from the Council of Churches concerned the question of whether such scrutiny does not mean an atheistic parade of moods, and suddenly the heads of Christian private schools may be hit. This was ruled out by all present and expressed the view that it did not need to be repeated. However, the Commission took the view that we would keep this in mind and make sure that no such phenomenon would occur. I understood that the debate in the Committee on Culture was in a deeply constructive and consensual mood. The Commission's firm conviction is that the first reading of this draft must be completed. We also considered that the deadline for the proposed amendments should be ten working days, as our good practice suggests, and this means that... You see, start counting on your fingers. But it says ten working days in my cheat, so we can count them, maybe somebody will help me. There are no other problems with this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U207	Questions for the Commission rapporteur. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U208	Thank you. Honourable waitress! When we look at the text of the draft, we read that every five years the Director's performance will be assessed and then his compliance with the qualification requirements will be assessed. When, a few years ago, the employment contracts of directors were changed for an indefinite period, this was largely due to the fact that a person may not have been fit for office for political reasons: he may have been from the wrong party. Do you think it is no longer the view that a good director is not suitable because he is not a party suitable for a particular municipality?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U209	Well, the answer could simply be that this was not discussed in the Commission, but it would not be right in the sense that it has been discussed at earlier meetings of the Commission. If we generalise not the general attitude of this meeting, but of the Committee on Culture, it has been found that such a phenomenon has occurred and must remain in the past. All those discussing this bill and asking questions clearly shared the notion that no religious, racial, or political preferences would be appreciated. The competence of the Director shall be assessed. This motive is repeated and repeated without being recorded separately.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U210	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U211	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good waitress! Is the Commission also aware of the government's position? If so, what is it like? And did it come up, after all, that, as far as I know, the directors were assessed at least until 2013? How it's been since then, I really don't know. And if the director doesn't meet his professional requirements, then the contract of employment also gives him the opportunity to be fired.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U212	I'll start at the beginning of the question. The government representative was present at our meeting and also presented the position of the government and the Ministry of Education. He also introduced the history of the whole debate on this problem. True, not since the last millennium, but only since 2006. It was clearly argued that the system in force so far had its own reasons, but if something works, the work often shows that something needs to be changed. It is precisely for this and to the extent that competence, not political or otherwise, is assessed. Any subjective moments would be excluded from evaluation. It is necessary to find out that the incompetent director is the right one to fire. This is one of the main points of view or objectives of the draft. If someone has fallen asleep on a pen and thinks he's a professional director for life, that opinion can be shaken. A person has to work well in any position, and the legislator is determined to do all he can to ensure that this is the case.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U213	Thank you, Aadu Black! There are no further questions for the Commission rapporteur. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of Toomas Jürgenstein, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U214	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, At first glance, today's draft is not something special, just five years from now, the principals of schools will be evaluated. At the same time, it seems to me that it hides a little more than we can first-hand sense when we read the text. According to the Director, it is about the spirituality of our schools, the way we learn, creativity, the school culture, in fact everything. I'll start with who our principals are. There's nothing to do. The director is the beacon they're looking at. Let's take some examples of legends that have reached fiction. We will take Jakob Westholm, who will come to life in Jaan Kross' Wikman boys, and confirm that every Wikman boy's goal is immortality, or Hugo Treffner, who will figure out Mr. Maurusena in the second part of Tammsaare 'Truth and Justice', where he will discuss, among other things, why sociology is banned at his school. I can assure you, there is no more these days. The directors will attract attention. When Lauri Lees announced last week that she would not continue as director of the French Lyceum in Tallinn, it reached all the publications. As a result, the question really arises as to why these beacons must be evaluated every five years and their valuable time and perhaps their nerves. However, my response to today's vote would still be yes, but I would point out, alongside the word 'assess', that it is also a matter of strong counseling and conversation. Let it be mentioned, as a mid-term comment, that I find the conversation in our culture to be greatly underestimated. But let's think about Socrates and his midwives' art, the mother-in-law's art was his art of conversation. He said that just as a midwife helps a woman to give birth, so a conversational partner, whether a philosopher or whoever, must help a companion to give birth to wisdom. And it seems to me that from these conversations, a representative of the Ministry of Education, a representative of the heads of the school, a representative of the schoolmaster, everyone who appreciates the directors, and at the same time consults and talks with them. But why are such conversations and counseling still necessary? I'm talking about one of my own little startling experiences. I haven't been a principal, but I know things happen in a school routine. In fact, it seems to me that one of the main temptations of a person working at school is automaticity. When I was getting a couple of decades old at school, I noticed from time to time that it's been half an hour, but I don't remember the beginning of the class. But probably my mouth was telling the right thing because the students were calm. The kind of automaticity, the automatic response that usually works at school, is pretty foolproof. He really does work and he also works as directors in certain situations. Automation ensures stability, but not development. I am here to remind you of one of President Ilves' most well-known comments: what has brought us here will not take us forward. Sometimes at school, it's a feeling: What has made us a very good school may not take us forward. Secondly, today's school requires an open attitude and the director must be a person of dialogue. Let me be clear about what I mean by dialogue: these are conversations where people exchange ideas, and they do not know what their views are at the end of the conversation. If they know what they're thinking at the end of the conversation, it's not dialogue, it's two monologues. A new approach to learning is increasingly being discussed in the current educational landscape. A dialogue approach is a prerequisite for this, with the development of the learner at the heart of it. I quote here the New Study Concept of the Ministry of Education and Research, a summary of school management. Quote: 'In school management there is a move away from unnecessary hierarchy and control, and a move towards greater democracy and participation, both in school, teacher and student decision-making and freedom of action. ' These objectives can only be achieved through mutual cooperation and dialogue, and an occasional side-by-side assessment contributes to this. Finally, I am talking about the saddest part of the assessment that is now and then, which is certainly there. Sometimes it's like the principal's time is up. The current Acting Rector of the University of Tartu, Tõnu Lehtsaar, wrote a very meaningful article a few years ago, entitled 'Retreating Wisdom'. He writes: "The wisdom of retreat means a keen sense of reality. Understanding what is happening in both global and local terms and understanding its role in what is happening. There are moments when it is reasonable for the current player to withdraw to make progress. Only those who are dedicated will be able to withdraw. Indifferents just go away. A mature and thoughtful retreat trusts the enterprise in the following hands. It doesn't matter who does, it's important that the event goes on. " So wrote Tõnu Lehtsaar about two years ago. Indeed, it is not excluded that the dialogue between the panel and the Director sometimes leads to the same regress wisdom, which is sad, but sometimes necessary. Good friends! Let us conclude by saying that this draft is not quite ready yet. There are minor emphasis and problems that we hope to correct between two readings. To this end, the goodwill of the various parties appears to exist. The Social Democrats support the completion of the first reading of the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U215	On behalf of the Free Party Group, Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U216	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good people's representatives! The Group of the Estonian Free Party supports the completion of the first reading of the proposed draft law. This is a bill that reflects very well the change of time. There were times when the directors were transferred to permanent employment contracts. At that time, it seemed a little strange that fixed-term contracts would be timeless. How, then, will this overall assessment of school leaders take place? Why are the contracts suddenly being converted into an indefinite period? Can a person really find out for himself the moment of the right and wise retreat? It is very important for the driver to feel that it is the right time to give his place to the next. I had a very interesting conversation last night with a schoolmaster. He admitted that it is actually very good that some kind of control is being re-established. I'd like to report to someone. I asked him if it wasn't enough. After all, there's a board of trustees at the school that the director can account for. His answer was, yes, he's talking to the board of trustees, of course, they're talking. They do not underestimate the wisdom of Socrates. But the director felt he was talking to the board of trustees, but he wanted to report to someone. A lot depends on the headmaster. As Toomas Jürgenstein has just said: it is not only up to the headmaster to see whether the school's learning outcomes are good, whether the school's culture as a whole depends on him or not, but also whether the school's spirituality depends on the teacher's ability to work there. It depends on the headmaster if the child feels happy at school and wants to study there. These moments are becoming more and more important. The more complicated the world is around us, the more important it becomes, on the one hand, the family and, on the other hand, the place where the child is a very large part of his time during the day. The school culture is designed by the school manager. What is still debatable about the draft law currently under discussion is the composition and competence of the evaluation committees. I hope that we will discuss this and find the right solution. Jürgen Ligi, when presenting the draft law, said very nicely and correctly that the draft would prescribe the minimum required composition of the Commission and that it would be possible to complete it every time, making sure that its competence would not fall under the competence to be assessed. Mr Sults mildly drew attention to the fact that it is not possible to assess objectively the head of school, from whom we expect spirituality, wisdom, creativity and understanding of the value of education, if the evaluation committee is primarily based on political ambition. I very much hope that Estonian society is so mature that it can overcome such barriers. On the other hand, qualification requirements for school leaders are set in 2013, but we are currently living in 2018. We have talked about inclusive education and creative evaluation and, at the same time, we still want to maintain a school of convergence. These are, in some ways, very conflicting principles in their basics, so that this side also needs to be very well thought out. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U217	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U218	Thank you. As far as evaluation is concerned, the concerns of Christian schools have already been brought to our attention. I cannot say that I quite understand the background to these memos, but I sense that Christian schools and could have joined them, but the Waldorf schools, for example, fear that in our school system the evaluation of ordinary municipal schools and Christian schools could be too automatic, so that the differences between Christian schools are not taken into account. I'm not really afraid of that. I think that the evaluation committees will still be made up of people who feel the value of a school with a completely different basic orientation and are able to appreciate the head of such a school in a worthy manner. After all, the desire of all of us is one: that Estonian schools are led by very smart people with the best skills, who are also big people from the soul, who not only think about good learning outcomes, but also believe that education is also education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U219	Thank you. Raivo Põldaru on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U220	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party supports this bill, but I was personally surprised by the previous speaker's statement that school leaders are today in a situation where there is no need to report anymore. You can't even do that in front of anyone, even if I want to. I'm familiar with a situation that was at least five years ago and before. I was checked out during school surveillance. The Director had an extraly long questionnaire on qualifications requirements, as well as on how the Director managed to run the school. All areas of school life for which the Director was directly responsible were covered. I also know the times when the five-year contracts were in force, but the director was sometimes forced to leave office before the deadline when he didn't meet the requirements of the job. So the fact that the Director couldn't be fired in case of non-compliance during the monitoring process is bullshit. Yeah, he did. I don't know if in the last five years life has gone like this, surveillance has become toothless. At the same time, the Employment Contracts Act provides for the possibility of dismissal due to non-compliance and, since the Director's work must comply with the requirements laid down, it has also been possible to dismiss the Director. But I hear life has changed. I haven't been in school for the last five years, so that's the way I figured out what Krista Aru was saying. I can't mention any more names after people get word here. I will mention Aristotle, for example, as well as the remote control. So I'd rather not mention names. After all, this is how school life has really changed, and the life of directors has become somewhat easier. But for those who want to report somewhere and can't do that, of course, it's harder now. This law must change the situation. It is a matter of course whether there really is a need for the committees that carry out this monitoring. Perhaps the Ministry already has the opportunity to supervise the directors. But our group discussed the issue and felt that the draft needed support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U221	On behalf of the Group of the Centre Party of March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U222	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable colleagues! There is a déjà-vu effect here today: I have already seen this bill somewhere. I mean, there's nothing new here. I have the experience of a schoolmaster since the 95th century. Personally, I really liked the five-year contract, because when four and a half years were full, I had to get ready for the competition. And then it became clear if you had completed 250 additional training hours and did you order this refresher training for your money from the right company? It could not be paid for from budgetary resources. So the headmaster, when he went to the competition for the second time, had to spend and endure inconveniences. I have competed four times as director of my school: when there was the first competition, and three more times. Then suddenly Minister Lukas came up with an open-ended contract of employment. In fact, there was a strong director who needed to be picked and covered. Then came Minister Aaviksoo. Minister Aaviksoo said if you don't listen, I'm going to shut down the budget. At that point, no one understood what this budget cut-off means, but we immediately learned about it when we saw the budget for next year. And then things went on like a rudder. I asked the billwriter a little bit of questions like that. I didn't get any answers to those questions. In fact, the control mechanism has been put into effect precisely to call the inconvenient and strong directors to order. I can tell from my experience that you were a big piece of yeast as a schoolmaster because you were dependent on something. 750 to 800 students depended on you. You could change them, you could lead them, you could show them, say, the right way. But you were extremely uncomfortable with the ruling class because your thoughts often didn't match what the local government and the state came up with. And then you had to stand up for them. You're talking about support. There are students behind the school leaders, their parents and grandparents behind the students. School leaders must not just shake; for this they need a law bar: whether they have done, this, this, this and this. If behind a person, perhaps the head of a school, is a student body, a body of care, parents, and a community, then basically the same head of school is the state because he is extremely dependent on him. And he's responsible, he doesn't have to be checked. He must be disciplined, advised, and, with proper justification, supported, which, unfortunately, is not available to strong school leaders. There's a sentence about it that's like my own folk composition: "Everybody can do for money, but try without money! ' That's the thing! I mean, if you want to check, check toast, but check to be competent. This control must be respected. In my time, in 2000, when I was at school for the second season... Mr. Ligi, don't wave your hand! I sat calmly while you were speaking. I sat very calmly, and now you've confused my mind. You did really, really, really bad. I mean, yeah, you really are a manipulator and a great Word specialist. But I'm also a specialist in Word. Thank you. Inspections may only be carried out if they are competent and respected. In my time, you see, I remember! The fact was that there was an audit committee at the Ministry of Education, which was called a commission for dismissal by the people, teachers' mouths and school leaders' mouths. And it went from school to school where there were strong directors. Bad, lazy, and rope-drawing director is good to lead. He's very good to lead! I'm not gonna name you again, or you're gonna say I said something about you, you're gonna expect to be obeyed without an investigation. Why? Jürgen, you won't find such school leaders in my gang. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-15_U223	Thank you. Honourable Riigikogu, there is no further wish for negotiation. First reading of Bill 611 is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 29 May. Dear Riigikogu, in the interests of the smoothness of the work of this House, the chairman is now on break for 1 minute and 50 seconds. Thank you. I'll see you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 12.59 p.m.
