ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the session of the 8th working week of the VII session on Thursday. Now it's time to hand over drafts or inquiries. The members of the Riigikogu do not have this wish. Next thing we know, we're gonna do a presence check. Please, good members of the Riigikogu, presence check! Currently 62 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U2	We can start a review of today's agenda. We have two points on the agenda today, the first of which is the debate on the national 'Estonian as a National Infrastructure', which is crucial. Since today, this item has a slightly different structure from the usual one, allow me to go over it. First comes Krista Aru, member of the Estonian Free Party Group, whose presentation is 8 minutes. I would point out that we do not ask questions to Krista Aru because that is what the initiators want. Next is Tiit Aleksejev, Chairman of the Estonian Writers' Union, whose presentation is up to 20 minutes. You can also ask him questions, and there are 15 minutes to do so. Martin Ehala, professor of native language studies at the University of Tartu, will then come to the chair with a 20-minute presentation and questions-answers for up to 15 minutes. The Head of the Department of Applied Linguistics at the University of Tartu, Professor Birute Klaas-Lang's presentation is also up to 20 minutes and questions-answers up to 15 minutes. I would point out that every member of the Riigikogu is able to ask each guest speaker a question. The negotiations are, of course, open, both members of the Riigikogu and representatives of committees and political groups can speak. As the Minister for Education and Science has also asked for the floor on this item during the negotiations, he is welcome to do so. In agreement with the initiators of the item, the Minister shall speak first during the negotiations. Once we have finished this debate, we will not take a decision. I would like to say in advance that the Group of the Estonian Free Party has proposed to extend the session until 14 p.m. if necessary, but we will come back to it. So, on the first item, the important national question 'Estonian as a State Infrastructure'. Krista Aru, a member of the Free Party Group, is the first to welcome the chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U3	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Madam Minister! Dear guests, good waitresses and representatives of the people! Yesterday was our English language day. We talked-we thought together and separately about Estonian as the keeper of our national identity. In fact, we are all the keepers of the Estonian language. The use of the Estonian language is the creation of the Estonian language, but it is also the creation of culture. Today we have a weekday again, a working day, and we ask what Estonian is as a state infrastructure. This creates a little strangeness at the first glance - how can language be a public infrastructure? However, when we think of language as an opportunity, as an instrument, as a structure that creates our lives every day, we understand very well that Estonian as a national language is the backbone of our country. It is a pillar that will keep the institutions in operation that will keep our Parliament working, which will hold together our school network and which will certainly take this whole life forward here. The Estonian language as a state infrastructure has its own institutions, its own firm institutions, which need working orders and undertake tasks. Among them, we can name schools, higher education institutions, the Institute of the Estonian Language, all these institutions perform their very specific function in this state infrastructure, and they are all very important to us. But infrastructure also has a number of activities and a number of functions, it is then language management, language ecology, language learning, language study or language development as a whole. These are large broad-based activities that need to be dealt with systematically, consistently and consciously. In order for this infrastructure to work to meet the requirements of our daily lives, which it presents to the language so that the language user can use it, it needs constant care. Not only does he need maintenance, he also needs development and remediation, maybe even modification. In Estonia, there is a national development plan for the Estonian language in order to coordinate, manage and look very clearly at all the activities necessary for the language. Today, when we are gathered in this hall with many guests, all of whom are involved in teaching, developing and studying the language, and like our Estonian language, we have a huge task to see what part of this infrastructure needs to be developed and systematically organized first. We can say one more thing right now. What does language need most? The language most requires that there are users of the language, that there are people who speak, read, understand and interpret the language, and that they create life through that language. There are many people living next to us Estonians in Estonia, whose native language is not Estonian. We have so far tried to teach them Estonian in our language studies, but we must admit that this teaching has not gone as well in every section as we have hoped. The question now is whether and how the training should be changed. All kinds of proposals have been made. For example, Estonian should be taught already in kindergarten so that we can eliminate the parallel worlds that arise through schools and pass on to the working environment. How do you do that? Where do you want to start? This is one big circle of questions. It is clear that by teaching the Estonian language, we must be able to do so with dignity, wisdom and beauty, without hurting other people's national feelings towards their own mother tongue. The second question, which certainly stands out in our language as an infrastructure, is its development in the digital environment. The language will last if it has continuity and can also be used in the digital environment. We all know that we have the Estonian Centre for Language Resources and that researchers from the University of Tartu, researchers from Tallinn University of Technology and scientists from the Institute of Cybernetics are working on the digital development of language, but there is still a great deal to do. However, today's key national issue focuses on the most important one. All other developments are based on education. So we have perhaps set a narrower task today than we would have liked. I would have liked to look at all these individual infrastructure issues, but we have focused on education today. Rapporteurs who speak Estonian at the Estonian school, Estonian in the Estonian school system, Estonian in the Estonian higher education system and also in the scientific world are all undoubtedly experts in their field; they have been involved in the Estonian language for decades. As Chairman of the Estonian Writers' Association, Tiit Aleksejev reviews Estonian language through Estonian literature, as Estonian language and literature are the creators of Estonian culture, the foundations and pillars of Estonian culture. Estonian literature cannot exist without Estonian language, just as we do. I would like a very constructive debate. First we give the floor to the rapporteurs for their presentations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U4	Thank you, Krista Aru! Ladies and gentlemen, as usual, in the case of the Estonian language, some of the strongest linguists and enchanters are writers. Tiit Aleksejev, Chairman of the Writers' Association, is welcome to speak in a chair for up to 20 minutes. Mr. Alexeyev, please, the chair is yours!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U5	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I wish you a happy second day of native language. Märt Väljatag has highlighted in his performance how in the 20th century it was widely believed that language was a condition of almost everything possible, i.e. not only communication, writing and thinking, but even a condition of the moon, sun, summer, winter, time and space. But even if we are not sure of this fundamentality of the language to the end, it is clear that Estonian culture has a very special role to play. It dates back to the Reformation period, according to Luther's principles, the word of God had to be preached in the mother tongue. Through the native language, the message reached people and settled in them. Once this approach was rooted, it became irreversible. It became the basis of our identity, and we are all carriers of this identity. Self-lingualism is a value. Language and literature are what unites us. We live in a quite specific cultural environment where several languages are interwoven: English has been added to the Russian language, Finnish plays its role. It's all rather enriching and nothing that should hurt your heart, but we need to make sure that the base stones stay on. The teaching of native language, higher education in their own language and literature in their own language are such stones. By holding them, we keep our spiritual identity, what makes us special among other nations and what the purpose of the Estonian state may be. In the Writers' Union, we look at this situation from two points of view: first from the author's point of view and then from the reader's point of view. Estonian authors wish to create cutting-edge literature. This is what writers have always done and what they will continue to do. This is their contribution to the survival and further development of the Estonian language and through it to society in general, because literature is more than just a creative area. Literature is the life force of memory, culture and, through it, the future of culture, without language and culture, does not have the duration of this country. It's all a binder. But such an attempt by authors loses meaning when there are no readers or when the number of readers is constantly falling. Writers themselves must contribute to increasing the interest of children and young people in reading. Young people must be shown that literature is something enriching; it is freedom rather than duty. An excellent project has been launched in Tartu with the support of the city 'Kirjanik school! '. Each municipal school can invite a writer, literary scholar or translator to perform for its students, and the cost of the fee is covered by the city of Tartu. It's something you could do more broadly. The Writers' Union is willing to make an effort to do so, because in this world we live in, readers must be kept and raised. Reading children will once become citizens who are expected to be analytical and responsible and cannot be manipulated. Second, higher education. The task of universities is to develop an educational community in their own language. The complete foreign language of any specialty must be avoided. The situation that existed in the 19th century, where universities became enclaves of language, is completely unnatural in today's world, and it shakes the basic stones that were mentioned earlier. If we want literature in our own language to be preserved and developed, Estonian authors should also be supported, because of the limitations of the local book market. The market argument simply does not apply here. Here I see two specific measures: the expansion of the draft writer's salary and the increase in the loan compensation. For the latter, look at the example of Finland. The 2017 Loan Compensation Fund was EUR 14.2 million and the bulk of it was paid out to 7000 applicants, authors or copyright holders. Around 25% of this will remain in reserve as claims can be made within three years. In Estonia, the loan compensation fund for 2017 was EUR 127630 and was paid to 1450 applicants. This difference is literally high on the mountain, and there is quite a lot to be done by the country here. What matters, though, is that writers are not demanders. Writers are contributors, both to their own language and to Estonian culture in general. On behalf of the authors of the Estonian Writers' Union, I can state this position clearly. I will finish my performance with the T.S.Eliot essay "Luule's social function," which will nicely sum up its own language and perhaps a few more principles. I quote: 'Tunds and perceptions can therefore be better expressed in the common language, that is, in the common language of all classes: its structure, rhythm, sound, idiomatics express the character of the speaking people. [---]... people find a more conscious expression of their deepest feelings in their native-language poetry rather than in some other art or foreign-language poetry. [---] The poet has only an indirect duty to his people: his direct duty to the people is first to preserve it, second to expand and improve it. Expressing the feeling of others, he also makes it more conscious: making others more aware of what they have already experienced, thus teaching them to feel better. " Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U6	Thank you for this introductory presentation. Members of the Riigikogu also have a large number of questions for you. First, Marika Tuus-Laul asks. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U7	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress, Tiit Alexeyev! Based on your views, you will certainly also share the criticism of the Emeritusdocent of the University of Tartu and the linguist Reet Kasik that the university will unfortunately no longer be a cultural and political influence of Estonian society, as the aim of the university is to produce only English-language studies, articles in international publications, etc. This is justified by international competition and ultimately gives more money, but Estonia's needs are forgotten and we seem to dissolve. What do you think could still do to keep it from happening? I'm still getting it. How can this process be slowed down in this form?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U8	Thank you. A specific path is to prevent one or the other from speaking a completely foreign language. The world is changing, and we are unable to keep English-language science at the door, and there is no need for it, but the university has a responsibility in shaping its own-language intellectual society, and this must not be forgotten. I believe that, as far as the necessary changes and curricula for higher education institutions are concerned, we will hear more about this in a little while. But yes, I share that view.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U9	March Sults, your turn, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U10	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress, good to hear your report. Thank you. But now I'm turning back my college life. Then we had such a subject as the history of chemistry, only the Russian and English texts, good thick books. We received our calculations when Professor Ilomets ordered all students to translate these English-language and Russian-language things into Estonian for education in Estonian and for the history of chemistry in Estonian. The definitions broke up awfully. Technical and functional reading and understanding had to be complete. What do you think is a little too space-like, should books and textbooks all be pure from all kinds of foreign words and Estonian, not from loan words?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U11	If possible, the Estonian word must always be used. In this regard, however, I would like to recall the beginning of the 20th century, where the national university seemed to have something unthinkable, either incredible, but still very difficult to accomplish, because most of the teaching materials, most of the teaching materials, were German. Even if teaching philosophy in Estonian seemed to be a serious test, but the national university was created, it acted, so everything is possible. I believe that the translation of teaching materials should not be too much of a force.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U12	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U13	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I very much enjoyed this part of your speech, where you referred to the educational impact and analytical capacity of the text. This is certainly a very important part of school and university education. In recent times, especially in recent days with regard to an important event, a debate has arisen in society as to whether the literature used in school is age-appropriate and whether children, students, understand it at the right time. Can misposition in language and understanding lead away from text and literature? Who says what is the most important strain text in these days besides what we are accustomed to, that 'Truth and Justice' should always be included in compulsory literature?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U14	Here, teachers must still have a great responsibility to bring children and young people to literature, but not to scare them away from it. It is really important that there are no concessions in the curricula of literature in general education schools. This system in itself is not as rigid as it may seem at first glance, whether or not because the majority is still recommended literature. The teacher must recommend to the students what is within their reach. Otherwise, one does not reach literature because the first experience is so horrifying. It's all about the quality of teachers.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U15	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U16	Thank you, good vice chairman. Thank you for your speech to the waitress. In your speech, you touched on this issue in order to extend the payment of the writer's salary and increase the loan allowance. You also mentioned Finland once. I just went out yesterday to get some enthusiasm for what's going on there, and one of the biggest directions in this area is how to find more private finance. The state cannot be an endless owner and a carrier of costs, but it is still a platform for progress and inclusion. Have you opened up this issue through the Alliance of Writers, is there any potential to involve private finance? I have noticed that entrepreneurs feel that they now have the opportunity and will to return something to Estonian culture and values. This could be an option.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U17	Thank you. We have an interesting venture like the novel competition of the Writers' Union. It is based on purely Estonian private capital, was found by three major supporters that literature is important and the receipt of novels manuscripts is important. For us, it has been such an interesting form of cooperation over several years. I believe that, either on the Finnish side or on the Nordic side at all, private capital could really support culture more. They're already doing that. Speaking of writer's salary, it's been public finance. Indrek Saart, who has had faith in the event, must be acknowledged here. We currently have 12 authors' salaries, 53 in Finland. It is true that some of the deadlines are shorter, not all contracts are three years old. Writer's salary is important in that it allows the author to deal only with this area. It helps create professional literature. Writers write anyway, but it gives them a different freedom to write. In this regard, this project is very important. Speaking of loan compensation, once again, it is possible to measure the author by how much his reader cares how many of his works are borrowed, how important he is to the people. Yes, a person can be judged by his work. The current median is 27 euros, so many authors sometimes fail to notice when it comes to their account. They simply accept it as such recognition that they have been observed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U18	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U19	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress, thank you for the opening statement. Looking at what's going on in the book market, what's in the store and what's in the libraries, and thinking back on last night's show, it's kind of a jungle in which orientation is still highly surreal. At the same time, there is perhaps even a little more for Estonians in the country, there is a more important question of libraries and who goes there. Definitely children, younger people, and perhaps older people. Once again, multiplicity, diversity in this market, as well as e-books, throughout the digital era. How would you appreciate whether the meaning of libraries has changed in time? The library is a very important place where children are encouraged and where writers can come to talk about their books. Do you think this has changed in any way?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U20	Thank you. We have such an event as a library tour in the Writers' Association. Once a year, authors are sent to libraries throughout Estonia and this is a good opportunity to learn about Estonia from this angle. The meaning of the library outside Tallinn and Tartu is still quite different. He is also the center of cultural life of his own kind. People not only come there to rent books and read on the spot, but it is an opportunity for them to meet, communicate and spend time in a different way. That's where the library should be kept and protected. I remember there were two choices in one place: on the right wing there was a tavern and on the left wing there was a library. That was the discrepancy. I kind of remembered that.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U21	Next thing you know, Andres Herkel's gonna ask. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr President of the Writers' Union, thank you very much for your presentation. My question concerns the editing of books, including fiction, as well as language editing. How do you assess its level in Estonia at all? How are we affected today by the situation in which many people read more unedited or very superficially edited Internet texts and much less well-educated literature?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U23	The editor's institution is extremely important. Now, if you look back at the Soviet time, there's a lot you can't be proud of, but you can be proud of editing. We have also tried to continue this tradition in the Writers' Union, even the editor's prize has been created. Once again, there is something that may well be worth paying national attention to, so that such an editor's institution does not disappear, rather develops. Indeed, in today's world, or even in today's Estonia, we are talking more specifically about the multiplicity of texts. It is possible to go to a publishing house with a PDF file, where a hard-cover book can be printed in five to ten minutes and can be placed in an international code, ISBN, and can be taken to a store if you wish, try to sell it. But what the reader of emotion or experience gets there is a completely separate question. The editor's work is worth valuing and keeping in mind, as it is often unnoticed. The editor's name is small, but sometimes the change that happens as a result of his work is pretty important.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U24	The last question to Tiit Alexeyev is asked by Andres Ammas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U25	Honourable President! Respectable waitress! How do you see the role, opportunities and responsibility of the press in popularising reading?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U26	Here one could now say with historian's eyes that the role of the press in shaping the Estonian reader has been decisive. However, the press is once again one of those areas that have changed in time. I would very much like to hope that the quality and analytical press will survive. I'm sure he's got a big part to play. And once again, speaking of literature, it is important that literary criticism does not disappear from the journalism columns; it should not completely move to the Internet.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U27	Mr Alexeyev, thank you very much for your presentation and your questions and answers. As agreed, you had 15 minutes to answer questions. Next is Martin Ehala, professor of native language teaching at the University of Tartu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U28	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! For the last 15 years, the focus of my research has been on Estonian language environments. Studies have been financed for taxpayers' money and I am very pleased today that I can now present the results of the analysis back to the Riigikogu. The focus of my presentation is on the situation of Estonian language in basic and general education. My presentation looks to the future, and it covers about 30 years in the medium term, which is far more than some sort of election period. This is a period in which slow changes in society should be taken into account. As a result of the analysis of the language environment, it now seems that one of the most burning problems is the division of the Estonian school language, i.e. the Estonian education system into half of the Estonian language and the Russian language of instruction, in view of the medium term. The linguistically segregated school system has both pros and cons, but unfortunately, there are more cons than pros. One plus is, of course, that learning in native language is more stress-free, and it just happens more naturally, more easily. The second plus is that the native-language school supports linguistic and ethnic identity. If we now look more specifically at the situation in Estonia and the Estonian school system, the results of PISA show that the learning results in Russian schools are weaker than in schools with Estonian language of instruction. However, the learning outcomes of our Russian schools are better than those of Russian schools in the Russian Federation, but they are weaker than those of Estonian-language schools in Estonia. Of course, studying the Estonian language at Russian school is more difficult and difficult than it would be in a school with an Estonian language of instruction. It just requires a separate commitment, the process will last longer. Learning the language is done more quickly, especially when we are dealing with a young person who is not yet in puberty, say, an elementary school child in a language environment, or an Estonian language of instruction at school. The biggest minus just looking at the medium-term perspective is that the language-separated school restores linguistically separated society. This is, in my opinion, one of the most serious threats to Estonia's security in the medium term. Let's take a look at the situation of Russian in Estonia and make a comparison with the other Baltic countries. The overall assessment is that Russian is not at risk in Estonia. This scheme has had the results of a study of ethnolingvistic vitality some time ago, where people have answered the question of the language in which they communicate each day with their family, friends, co-workers, hobbies, public spaces, etc. The answers to the questions can be varied as follows: 'in Russian only', 'in Russian mostly', 'in Estonian and Russian equally', and at the other end of the scale there is 'in Estonian only'. The data presented in this diagram are the answers of Russian identity respondents. In the black column, Estonia's results show that 67% of the Estonian Russian-speaking population communicate mainly or only in Russian every day. Those who communicate equally in Estonian and Russian are 27%, and only or mainly in Estonian there are 6% communicators. If we compare with other Baltic countries, we can see that even in Latvia, where the proportion of the Russian-speaking population is higher than in Estonia, there are those who live only in the Russian-speaking information space, i.e. only communicate in Russian, already significantly less, 51%. However, there are considerably more people who communicate in two languages than in Estonia. The situation is, of course, much different in Lithuania, as the Russian-speaking population in Lithuania accounts for only 10% of the country's population. Therefore, it is true that a large number of people from Russian backgrounds communicate almost every day only in Lithuanian. This is the situation in which it can be said that Russian language in Estonia is not at risk in the medium term, it is not foreseen that there will be a loss of Russian language in Estonia, there is no such danger. Now, another trend has emerged: linguistic segregation has increased in Estonia in this century. For example, in Ida-Virumaa, the proportion of people with Estonian native language has fallen from 18% to 16% and in Lasnamäe from 33% to 26%. It seems that these integration methods, which have so far worked more or less nicely, i.e. the level of proficiency in the Estonian language has increased, start to exhaust themselves gradually, because everyone who has wanted to integrate has already integrated themselves, and for the rest there is a slight segregation on the basis of ethnicity and language in different parts of the city. This is certainly not sustainable in the long term. Another thing that should necessarily be taken into account. These data and recommendations come from the latest Human Development Report. We all know that Estonia's population is shrinking because of its low birth rate and it would require 440000 more people if we wanted the population to be the same. Even if the people who have migrated return to Estonia, it may be expected that in a hundred years the proportion of ethnic Estonians in Estonia will decrease by less than 50%. Even if the birth rate could be brought back to normal, more than 200,000 people are likely to be needed if we want the population to remain the same. What does that mean? I am not going to take a position on how much immigration should be or how it should be regulated. What I can say is that over the last three years Estonia has become a country of immigration again. It may indeed be that the pressure of immigration has arisen and the medium-term perspective for Estonia is one where immigration exceeds emigration. As of now, about half of them are returnees, Estonians and Estonians in Russian, who have returned from abroad. About 30% are from Ukraine and Russia, about 10% from the European Union and about 10% from the rest of the world. The situation is such that 40% of those who have returned will start studying at a school with an Estonian language of instruction, 40% at a school with a Russian language of instruction and 10% at a school with an English language of instruction. If we are now imagining a situation where, in principle, immigration will continue more or less in the size that it is now, then this means that our linguistically separated school system will'reprove' integration problems for us. In this way, if the people who come from the territories of the former Soviet Union to whom Russian is a native language are free to choose a Russian-language school as the language of instruction for their children, that is how it goes. We need to start integrating these people somehow. Another problem in this respect is general education in English, which is actually quite small today, only 456 students, that is 0.3%. English-language education is available in the eighth of general education schools, most of them are private schools, but there are also two municipal schools, these are Tallinn English College (TIK) and Miina Härma Upper Secondary School. It's paid for in private school, but it's not municipal school, of course. Now, general education in English is also something that, under the conditions of immigration, can produce an effect where we have a population layer, who learns English and is trying to cope in that language in Estonia. Similarly, there may be a population that gets into Russian school and tries to cope with the Russian language. Thus, the consequences of the migration turn and segregation are such that the person who comes here has the right to choose whether to head in the Estonian direction, towards the Russian direction or to the English direction. We don't know exactly where they're going when we leave the choice to make them. Different scenarios can lead to different solutions. It is still in the interests of the state and society to ensure a coherent society at least as coherent as we now have in the next 30, 50 or 100 years. The school system is central here. There are some legislative solutions that could and should be done to ensure such a coherent society for the nearest medium term. One is that the choice of people with a migrant background should be either a private school or a municipal school with an Estonian language of instruction. In Quebec, Canada, which is a French-speaking region, there is such a rule that children with a migrant background can only study at a French-language school, although there are also English-language schools for the English-speaking minority in the region. The same regulation should be introduced in Estonia, in my opinion. Students with a travelling background, children should be able to choose either a municipal school in Estonian or a private school, with any language of instruction offering such schools. The second place where the law should really be clarified is the section on the language of study of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, which states that a school with an Estonian language of instruction is the one where 60% of the teaching is done in Estonian. We all remember why this point is written in it. Now, when you read this section on the language of instruction, it really is what Ülle Madise says that the law has been written so complicated over time that everything can be done according to it. This shear should be written more clearly, at least in such a way as to prevent the municipal school from being educated in English, i.e. the state should not provide education in English for taxpayers' money. These two things concern the laws, but the following measures, which I am now talking about, concern early childhood education, or kindergartens and general education. It's like a program, it needs action. You really should start at kindergarten level. Our main objective should be to establish contacts between Estonian and Russian children so that we can overcome the phenomenon of the world of the two languages that is currently in Estonia and which has perhaps even deepened over the last ten years. You just have to put the kids together for that. This cannot be done forcibly, it should be on a voluntary basis. This requires the development of a kindergarten programme of some kindergarten, say, an open kindergarten programme with two-sided immersion, both languages being used, educators mastering both languages, and by the end of kindergarten, all children would basically have both Estonian and Russian in their mouths at the social level. Such kindergartens could be free of charge. In short, there could be some kind of motivation to support these people to put their children there. This is certainly the most promising in Tallinn, where there are enough people with both Estonian and Russian native language to create groups in kindergartens with the same number of children with both native languages. In Ida-Virumaa, the open kindergarten program is much more difficult to do and there is less need for it elsewhere in Estonia. So this is primarily a place to start in Tallinn. It should be started in a small way, and it could be expanded if experience and success emerge. This could be the way to start early childhood education. In general education, I find that the most promising thing would be to create Russian primary school classes for schools with Estonian language, in which children studying in the so-called primary school could gain both Russian-language literacy and reading skills as well as Estonian-language language and literacy, so that they could then study with Estonian children in the same class, but they would be guaranteed a block of Russian language, Russian literature, Russian culture subjects until the end of the upper secondary school, which they would study on their own or with Estonian children who would like and could learn it. So we should set up Russian routes to Estonian schools. It could also be arranged that such a Russian primary school class at an Estonian school would be the default choice for parents in their area. Only if the parent says that he does not want his child to go on the Russian route to the Estonian school could he choose the closest Russian language to the school. Again, this would work best in the Tallinn region, where there is actually the greatest potential in the area of integration. In Ida-Virumaa, once again, it is more difficult to do this simply because there are few schools with Estonian language of instruction and there are already many Russian-speaking children in them. But Narva is founded in two state secondary schools, and one of these could come from something we call "the elite school" a school that doesn't have its own region and where people can come from anywhere. This school could have such a very attractive slope, say, international relations and diplomacy or something that could suddenly, especially if it were in close contact with the College of Narva of the University of Tartu, so that perhaps even the teaching staff of the University of Tartu would be there to draw young people with Estonian language from all over Estonia and, of course, Russian native language from Ida-Virumaa. It could create an environment that would support personal contacts and mutual language learning. In conclusion, I believe that if we want a coherent society and want to move forward with integration, this is where a change should be made. With the recovery of immigration, in short, the transformation of Estonia into an immigration state and because segregation has started to deepen, I have the feeling that integration in the way it has been relatively successful for the last 25 years will not produce the same good results. The solutions should be flexible, rather than forced, to motivate parents. They should be culturally soft. Minorities should have guarantees and opportunities to maintain their identity. It should start small and grow. It shouldn't be a campaign, someone's election campaign, that we're doing it now, and there are deadlines here, and everyone has to achieve something by that point. Rather, it has to be something that grows like a snowball. However, a fundamental decision is needed: the language gap should be overcome. I hope, in the interests of Estonian society as a whole, that this decision will be consensual over the whole political scale. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U29	Professor, thank you very much for this presentation. The members of the Riigikogu have gathered a large number of questions and Urmas Kruuse first asks. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U30	Thank you, Mr President. Very honorable waitress! When you started your presentation, you were, in some ways, more forceful in this position, so as not to give the people who came here the opportunity to freely choose what might actually be countering integration and integration. At the end of the presentation, you became, like, softer, while you had a full sense all the time in the sense that you would also like to give this minority language a certain degree of privacy and opportunity for your cultural development as set out. Many times you also mentioned Tallinn. Given which part of the population is located in Estonia, Tallinn probably has a key position on the issue you were talking about. Although we have noticed in Tallinn that they are not very active. Could this mean that if one local authority in Tallinn does not support it, it is not possible to treat this project as you have just brought it here in the whole Estonian context?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U31	To this end, I think, quite basically, we should explore the possibilities for a country to support such developments, especially in the setting-up of programmes. This does not necessarily have to be done through municipal funding. I think that legislators and politicians are in a much better position here because they can decide and find ways to influence processes at national level in the local area. I cannot answer this question in such detail and say exactly what should be done, how much local authority can resist or what can happen. It's all hard to predict. Now, on the first part of your question, I was relatively relentless or categorical towards immigrants and softer towards the Russian school that currently exists. I think that this is the case, and it is natural, because people who have been born and lived here have certain prerequisites for what must be the situation. They know what the situation has been, and when it changes, they ask what its impact on my life is. However, the people who have just come here cannot have any presumption that the same situation as in their home country, Russia or Ukraine, must necessarily continue here in Estonia. That is why this restriction is being imposed on immigrants who, in my opinion, are now coming to the right. At the same time, it should be milder and more flexible for those who have lived and been born here and expect the situation to be more permanent rather than suddenly changing.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U32	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U33	Thank you, good Chairman. Dear waitress, thank you for your presentation. As you said, the isolation of the various communities from the settled education system will inevitably be passed on to later life, for example, resulting in poorer opportunities in the labour market and all of this. You described in your presentation a possible solution in early childhood education and, as the questioner pointed out, you pointed out that this programme is probably the most prospective one in Tallinn. Have you already received feedback on this approach from the most prospective and larger municipality? Do you have any information on the readiness, readiness to implement this program like this?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U34	I have not asked for feedback and therefore I have not received any feedback. As far as preparedness is concerned, this movement certainly exists at kindergarten level. There are already articles in the Teacher's page and there are people who are working on it. The initiative has been initiated from a completely so-called bottom, grassroots level. It's just that I think it's the right time to give it some breathing space and more funding.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U35	Andres Herkel, your turn, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U36	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ehala, thank you for your presentation. You referred to these segregation processes, which are likely to deepen in some areas of Estonia as a result of population processes. This is one of the great concerns of how to find solutions here, how much the state should do, how much local government, etc. I have a question, too. How many of you or any language people have been able to consult on these issues, even with representatives of the local governments of Ida-Virumaa? Is it possible to think about it in this way from kindergarten and school, on this ground, for example, to have language learning through jobs or language learning in vocational schools in a more profound way?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U37	Thank you. In Ida-Virumaa, the University of Tartu has a Narva College, and it is precisely the same subject area and topics that the work takes place, language learning, integration of the Estonian language. The people who work there have certainly been and are in close contact with the local community. My own contacts are limited to reading and analyzing, so I don't have any personal contacts, but they definitely exist at university level.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U38	Andres Ammas, your turn, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U39	Honourable President! Respectable waitress! What do you think about online language learning? Can we support and help these Estonian families who live outside Estonia but are concerned about the Estonian language skills of our children?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U40	Thank you for your question. Online language learning and online learning at all are in a situation where our language community is branched or where there are people in our language space who want to use it and who do not have other opportunities, one of the best ways to provide support to those who are outside Estonia and wish to study Estonian or subjects. For example, one great initiative that works is the World School in Finland. Those who do this school provide education within the scope of the Estonian comprehensive school curriculum for students living outside Estonia. They do so online, and their students are from all over the world. Sometimes teaching takes place at midnight for teachers so that it can take place during the day for students somewhere in California. This is a very prospective and important development in a situation where we really need to consider that the population is multinational. This should, I think, be supported by public funding so that such initiatives can develop and be viable.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U41	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U42	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Thank you for this intriguing and very serious presentation. My question concerns your own experience. You are also currently working as a professor of Estonian in Finland. Does Finland face the same challenges to its education system as we do today in order to really bridge this social divide?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U43	Thank you for your question. Finland is very far ahead of us. He is already ahead historically because the Swedish-speaking community of Finland is much older than the Russian-speaking community of Estonia. Therefore, the educational problems we have here do not exist in Finland. I imagine that the same situation and degree of integration that currently exists in Finland between people with Finnish and Swedish languages will be in Estonia in 50 or 70 years' time. I think that's where we should strive. As regards immigration, especially recent immigration, it has not been as large in Finland as it was in Estonia 25 years ago. The proportion of the population born outside Finland is still very low in that country and they actually go to Finnish school. So there is certainly no problem with linguistic integration in Finland. The differences are due to historical background rather than to the enormous efficiency of the Finnish education system. It's just that their situation is better.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U44	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U45	Thank you. Professor Ehala! I last applied in a region that was russified without any local legitimate expectations, and unfortunately, new political initiatives are brought out during campaigns. I'm responsible for the fact that the common educational system was part of the campaign. Its point was, however, that a separate education system produces people who live happier, live less and sicker, and have poorer opportunities. Now you are basically warning politicians not to bring it into the campaign. The fact is that in those russified regions where this problem exists, non-Estonians and non-citizens are always in power in the sense that they decide on the result of the election. In addition to warning, do you have a backup plan, an encouraging plan, how to put in place Estonian language and education in Estonian, so that our social networks merge and fates become a little more equal.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U46	Thank you for your question. If we now look at general education, my proposal is to create Russian-language primary schools and a module for Russian language, literature and culture until the end of the school. This does not require a Russian-language school to be closed down or a Russian-language school to be turned into Estonian. It creates the opportunity for people who want to go and choose a better and healthier life for their children, longer life, etc. In short, it allows them to decide for themselves where to educate their children.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U47	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U48	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Professor Ehala, for this presentation. You've focused your report on basic and general education, but I'd like to get a little out of it. And it is my question that concerns the project of Estonian-language houses. How do you rate it? Is this a necessary undertaking? Does this lead to a reduction in segregation or not? How do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U49	Thank you for your question. Estonian houses are a good tool in a place where there is no Estonian language environment. In such a region, say Ida-Virumaa, for example, it is very difficult to achieve a breakthrough or to take some major initiatives or to change something. In a word, you might decide that everything must be in Estonian, but it is still somewhat arduous because there is no language environment. This is a separate area where what can be done must be done. I therefore think that the initiative on Estonian houses is likely to help to overcome segregation. If anyone has better ideas, they must be implemented, but it is really difficult to find solutions that work well effectively and quickly.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U50	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U51	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress, thank you. My concern is that we really want to maintain the continuity of the Estonian language, and for some reason we also define ourselves in this way: I am an Estonian because I speak Estonian. Looking around these days, it doesn't matter what color one child or another is. At the level of the basic and also kindergarten, the provision of education in Estonian is the most important. Can you also appreciate whether we have the conditions for doing so? Do we have enough teachers and qualified teachers? Do we have enough motivation to have these teachers in the near future when there is a problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U52	Thank you. It all depends on the scale of the action. If, for example, you wish to change all early childhood education, in one word, to lose linguistic segregation in those areas where you have children with Estonian and Russian native language more or less equally, then I am absolutely sure that there will not be enough teachers. They are not well prepared for bilateral immersion and for the whole methodology. So if you do something suddenly and everything has to happen right now, we're in a situation where we don't have any teachers. This is a serious problem. At the same time, enthusiasts have a small start, because there are people who know the methodology and can do something about it. In the meantime, more teachers can be raised.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U53	Professor Ehala, unfortunately, the time for questions and answers is full, although the members of the Riigikogu, as you can see, have more questions for you. I think the members of the Riigikogu will find a way to come and ask you these questions personally. Anyway, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U54	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U55	Next, Professor Birute Klaas-Lang, Head of the Department of Applied Linguistics, University of Tartu, is welcome.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U56	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Madam Minister! Honourable representatives and ladies and gentlemen on the balcony! I really have the honour and happiness and the joy of standing here before you and speaking today on a topic that excites me very much, which has been close to my heart for several decades in my work at the University of Tartu, but on which I think this topic excites everyone in this Chamber. Namely, Estonian in higher education. As a picture of the opening slide of this slide kit, I chose a picture with a view to the university from under the second round: it is a view of the main building of the University of Tartu from above. It's got college columns, and it's got what's going to come out and go. First of all, a little thought would be given to what is the task of universities, which is the task of the national university and which is the task of Estonian higher education at all. International research on the one hand, of course, and through science education, but one of the main functions of the university is to make the world a better place and make Estonia a better place, thanks to the fact that universities are raising top intelligence for Estonia: they are raising specialists, without whom the Estonian state could not exist as it has existed. Speaking of the language of instruction in higher education, it must certainly be said that this is the top of the pyramid of language use, but an extremely important factor without which the Estonian language could not exist. Here today has already been pointed out several times that yesterday was our English language day. Yesterday's TV show "Smooth Clean" also spoke about Estonian, spoke about native language, talked about language use. And indeed, it is not a threat to the Estonian language that the poet Wimberg writes in his poem the word 'flies' with a strong p or two strong p's that is all the private fun of the poet Wimberg. The Estonian language may be threatened if it loses some of its uses. If he loses some area of use, he ceases to be a higher education or also a scientific language, then this trend will grow like a snowball. What is the motivation for a child in another language to learn Estonian at school? He's just beating his shoulders and saying that the university is English, and I'd better learn English. Why should I spend my energy on a language that maybe has no perspective on me? So there is this kind of contrast: on the one hand, being a language of higher education is one of the most important indicators of the sustainability of the language, but on the other hand, we are hearing more and more of the fact that we are, friends, pragmatic, the whole world is in English. Higher education is international, science is international. Let us not spend our resources on what we do not want to spend them on! At the same time, being a language of higher education still plays an extremely important role in ensuring that our native language develops so that Estonian language remains both a servant of society and a cultural phenomenon. It should not be expected that Estonia will differ in this sense in the context of the whole of Europe. In Europe, there is an organisation such as EFNIL, which brings together European national languages councils and institutes. At its 2014 annual conference in Florence, EFNIL addressed higher education institutions in all European countries to encourage, encourage teachers and students in higher education to use their national language in research and education. The tendency to use more and more English in university education and research has led to concerns not only in Estonia, not only in countries where the national language user community is small but also in much larger countries. Last year a survey was carried out, called the Estonian Language Status Survey. The conclusions of this study point to what is really right. From the point of view of the internationalisation of higher education institutions, the increase in the share of English-language education that has taken place in the last ten years is a very positive phenomenon. However, the English language of higher education has a much wider impact on society. And in the interviews that were conducted during the preparation of this study, many acknowledged that language use in higher education and research is indeed the most sensitive area of language use, as it affects both the students' ability to express themselves and the functionality of the Estonian language in all areas. It means it's important what language we teach at the university, but its influence extends throughout our lives. But what does the country's strategic documents say about higher education in Estonian, especially in the field of education? It must be very sad to note that the role of Estonian language in higher education is not mentioned at all in the latest educational documents. Both the Lifelong Learning Strategy until 2020 and the High Education Programme 2016 to 2019 focus attention on only one area, namely the internationalisation of higher education institutions. It is noted that the foreign language development of higher education institutions, i.e. the foreign language curricula, is a reference to these development plans, i.e. 'the guarantee of academic success and quality'. At the same time, the principle that it is important to ensure the functioning of the Estonian national language as a higher education language is not recorded in these documents. This was the case in the previous strategic development plans concerning education. The role of Estonian language in higher education was considered to be very important for example in the Estonian Language Development Plan 2011 It was noted that Estonian-language studies providing a high level of Estonian language proficiency for graduates are available at all levels of study in all study programmes, with support for foreign language learning opportunities. It is this same balance that universities want to be part of the academic international world, of course, but on the other hand there must not be a risk that certain specializations will become a foreign language only in Estonia. The state supports higher education in Estonian in the form of national programmes. It is very positive that we have Estonian language technology programmes, the second of which ended in 2017 and which we are looking forward to. There is an Estonian terminology program that also ended in 2017. We're looking forward to it. There is a programme of higher education textbooks in Estonian, which has resulted in the compilation and publishing of dozens of textbooks in different fields, which are available to students. The "Estonian Language and Cultural Memory" research programme has also been launched. The role of the Estonian language is regulated in the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, which states that it is the duty of the state to guarantee the right of everyone to receive instruction in Estonian. At the same time, the Language Act does not specify whether the right to education in Estonian applies only to general education or also to higher education. An example is the Constitution of the Republic of Lithuania, which states the obligation of the State to guarantee everyone's right to education in Lithuanian at all levels of education, including higher education. The language of instruction is regulated by the University Act and the University of Applied Sciences Act: the language of instruction at higher education level is Estonian. But, of course, universities have the right to decide in which language the teaching is given, our universities are autonomous and I am very pleased about that. Our Higher Education Code is being updated and, at the end of my presentation, I will also put forward proposals that could be considered when making new higher education laws. Here I will also give a small overview of the dynamics of the language of instruction in higher education institutions over the last 25 years. What's happened? From 1993 we started with 17% studying in Russian and the percentage of English in curricula was only 1%. I will skip the intermediate years, but since 2013 the share of English-language learning has increased very intensively every year. The proportion of Russian-language learning has become completely marginal. In the 2016/2017 academic year, the share of Estonian was 82.6% and the share of English was 10.2%, and the share of "multilingual" had reached 5.3%. Many languages are in doctoral studies, where Estonian and English are used. When we talk about internationalisation, we often give a positive example of our neighbouring countries in Scandinavia, as well as Finland. An interesting fact, however, is that we have already gone ahead in the internationalisation of higher education from Finland, not in absolute terms, but in percentage terms. In Finland, 7.7% of students are foreign students; in Estonia, 8.2% are already in this academic year. In this academic year, it can also be said that the English-language curricula together with the Estonian and English-language curricula, which are then in doctoral studies, already account for 30% of our curricula. Think about it: 30%! We already have 29% in English in Master's Studies. Let's also look at the books. If we look at students in curricula, this percentage is considerably lower. The number of students studying in English is 12%, while the number of students studying in Estonian and English is 5%. This means that the number of students per curriculum in English is much lower than the number of students in Estonian-language curricula. This also raises the question of whether a small number of students in the English-language curriculum will ensure the profitability of the programme or whether English-language education will be financed on the account of Estonian-language learning. A few words from the doctoral language. I will give you an example from the University of Tartu. Indeed, doctoral studies are now bilingual, the doctoral thesis is written mainly in English. It can also be seen from this table that in 2016, 119 doctoral thesis were defended at the University of Tartu and only nine of them in Estonian. If you look at other universities in Estonia, since 2013, only English-language doctoral thesis is protected at Tallinn University of Technology and the Estonian University of Life Sciences, a considerable number of Estonian-language thesis are available at the Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre and at the Estonian Academy of Arts. Universities are motivated to provide English-language education because the performance agreements concluded between universities and the Ministry of Education and Research provide for additional money for internationalisation. This is very right, and it is very necessary to support the international environment. The aim has been to achieve a level of 20% of the curricula in English for a few years. In fact, this objective is almost met. You might also think about this support system to support education in Estonian at universities. Currently, universities get points in the rankings for an international learning environment. And what's more important: you can charge tuition fees for an English-language curriculum. For universities, it is very important that foreign students complete unfilled study places and in this way they can maintain their specializations. So there's a bunch of problems that's big and messed up. A few words about learning in English at the University of Tartu. The University of Tartu already has fewer than 13,000 students during this academic year, including nearly 1000 foreign students. The problem is that there is no module in English-language curricula to help integrate these students into Estonian society. That's what our alumni complain about. When 23 English-language curricula are opened at the University of Tartu in 2018, one problem is that only about 30% of them are young people who pay for their studies. So there is again the big question mark, who pays for the English-language studies that English-language curricula provide for. In fact, these students cannot be prepared to integrate into society in Estonia either. Finally, my proposals to amend the Higher Education Code and other laws that are being updated. It is the duty of the Estonian state to maintain and develop higher education in Estonian. I think that through the HTM and university performance agreements, it is possible to motivate higher education institutions to maintain and develop educational programmes in Estonian so that we really do not have the possibility that some specializations in Estonia become entirely foreign languages. Studying in foreign-language Bachelor's and Master's level curricula should normally be subject to a fee, except in those specialties where foreign-language curricula provide training for the necessary specialists in Estonia. But also in such disciplines, students themselves wanting it should offer an Estonian module and it could be free of charge for young people. It is a learning of Estonian language, culture and society, as well as a work placement in Estonia to link these students to Estonian life, so that they can gain experience in Estonian companies and organizations, and that there are more alumni among those who remain working in Estonia. You might also think about national regulations that those foreign students who successfully complete such a curriculum, including the Estonian module, could receive an extension of the residence permit in order to find a suitable job in Estonia. In paid foreign language studies, students could also be offered a free Estonian module and linked to national regulations to help them find a suitable job in Estonia. Estonia needs well-trained top specialists. The state and universities could jointly develop mechanisms for financing foreign language curricula containing the Estonian module and this module. And another major problem. In fact, if Estonian universities have an increasing number of foreign language lecturers, researchers and other employees, there is a risk that the language used by universities, the common language of universities, will no longer be Estonian. I also have a proposal to ensure that the working language of Estonian public higher education institutions continues to be Estonian. In fact, foreign lecturers and researchers who work with an open-ended contract in an institution of higher education could acquire the skills of a passive Estonian language for a certain period of time, for example during the accreditation period, so that they can participate in the university's life. The university should not then become a foreign language. Finally, Estonian is not a small language. It could be more like pride and dignity if we wanted to preserve and develop the Estonian language in all areas of life. When some 7,000 languages are spoken in the world, who can still read this exact number, the Estonian language is one of the million languages and is one of the languages with more than 300 speakers. If I am asked what could be the greatest achievement of the 100-year-old Republic of Estonia that the Republic of Estonia has achieved in the field of culture in 100 years, then I think it is in the mother tongue of higher education and the mother tongue of science as well. I think we could also give this gift to the Republic of Estonia, which is 200 years old. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U57	Thank you very much, Professor. The round of questions will be opened by Jürgen Ligi. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U58	Thank you, Mrs. Professor. Professor Ehala and I were in the middle of talking about kindergarten and school. I agree very much with what you have said. I say that the best Estonian language is Tartu language thanks to the university and its environment. But tell me, do you have anything encouraging to say on 'Connecting the education system with society'? If we introduce the soft transition forms described by the professor, what has happened so far will happen. In times of Russification, there are still people in power who are not interested in this unification, who are interested in segregation. Do you think there would be any way of supporting it more nationally? Has anyone dealt with how it could be a little more resolute when it comes to connecting systems and reaching this agreement more broadly?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U59	Thank you for your question. First of all, as a 'vote', I make my own choices and each voter makes its own choices. From the university's perspective, I can say that the knowledge of the Estonian language of a young generation with a native language or a native language has significantly improved compared to what it was 10 or 15 years ago. These so-called soft integration steps, which Professor Ehala drew attention to, have produced results. I wouldn't ring that bell. If we look at the Estonian language skills in different age groups, the Estonian native Russian resident, who is 20 to 29 years old, is better prepared for the labour market than Estonian. Because he has a very good knowledge of Estonian, he has a very good knowledge of Russian and he may also have other languages in his mouth. At the same time, I understand your concern, Mr. Ligi. I'd like it to go faster, too, but it's in your hands.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U60	Next, Urve Tiidus asks. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U61	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, When I listened to all these presentations today, I remembered the 1980s when our northern neighbours very intensively took up the creation of Finnish words in place of English-speaking, anglicisms, both in the field of technology and in other areas. It was a striking movement. I don't know if it's still going on right now. We can see that the impact of English on the Internet is very great, especially for the younger generation, and very many words are being created in connection with technological developments. If we want to develop the Estonian language, they should somehow be translated into Estonian. How do you assess this situation now from a higher education perspective? Is there enough news to replace anglicisms in these areas: technology, industry, all Internet, social media?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U62	Yes, two national programmes are also working intensively on this. The purpose of the terminology programme is to contribute to the creation and modernisation of the vocabulary, while the aim of the higher education textbook programme is to ensure that the skills that have been created also reach the auditoriums. It's being dealt with. Always gets more, always gets better. As far as Finland is concerned, there is a popular movement in Finland: everyone can participate in the creation of terms in their speciality, their professional vocabulary. It is likely that both linguists and professionals should work more intensively in Estonia as well. At the same time, I would like to emphasise: a great deal is in our own hands. After all, the language user decides whether or not he or she uses one or the other word in Estonian, whether or not he or she speaks about copy and paste. After all, we can all ask our computers to install software in Estonian rather than accept that by default it is assumed that the university professor must have, when he gets a new computer, this English software. It is also a question of our own attitudes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U63	Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U64	Thank you, President-in-Office. Honourable Professor! Thanks for the report. My question goes a little further than the previous one, and it would be right to put a crucially important national question to the formulaters, including Krista Aru, but today it was not possible. But you can also ask for this as the head of the Applied Linguistics Department. Is linking the new word 'infrastructure' to the Estonian language the most successful? Infrastructure is primarily infrastructure and concrete for us. Is it right to tie it to a tongue? The second question is directly from your area of activity. You spoke above all about the protection of the Estonian language at the university, but should not the protection of the Estonian language be extended? And I don't just think about the people that we're talking about, whose mother tongue isn't Estonian. How good do you think the Estonian language is among Estonians in the online and smart age, especially among the younger generation of Estonia? To what extent should we engage in this teaching?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U65	I will start with the final question of native language education for Estonians. Like I said before, always gets more and always gets better. What makes me so heartbroken and anxious is that the teaching profession is not so appreciated among young people, so prestigious that the teachers' training is rushed into groups by our best students. I think a good teacher is one of the keywords you should pay more attention to. Once again, according to the example of Finland: in Finland, teacher training curricula are so valued among students that there are the largest competitions. If we also reached the point that our best young people would like to learn to be teachers, we certainly should not ask such questions. What was the first question again? Infrastructure, yes! Yeah, maybe it's a little unfamiliar talking about language as an infrastructure. But I am talking about language as concrete or cement that binds society. I have sometimes used the image that the tongue is like a layer of jam between a cake that binds society to the end, but it can also be used for stronger symbols. For example, language is all the wires we're attached to. I don't think infrastructure is the wrong word. If the state is working very hard to develop its communications, then language is something that needs to be developed. The language area needs to be developed, because language helps us understand each other and the language binds the state and society.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U66	Andres Herkel, please, your turn!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U67	Thank you. Honourable waitress! When listening to you, I would like to assess the situation so that the time when our Masters and faculty had to prove that they were able to do research in English and to instruct it is long over. There's no need to prove that anymore. The question of Estonian is now much more important. As far as I know, a summary of these works is also required in English. I don't know if that's still true for doctoral thesis. How well is this requirement fulfilled? And to think about it from here on out, we have magazines such as the Academy and Horizon, even the Riigikogu Workings may in some way include them and there are others. Is there no reason to impose such a requirement that each doctoral thesis is accompanied by a representative presentation in the Estonian lyrics as well?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U68	Thank you. A very good question and a very important subject! The Estonian language development plan states that all foreign-language doctoral thesis should be equipped with an exhaustive summary in Estonian. For the most part, it is observed in universities. Indeed, in the regulation on academic degrees at the University of Tartu, it is stated that a foreign-language doctoral thesis must be equipped with an exhaustive summary in Estonian. There are specializations where it is ten pages, there are specializations where it is two pages As regards the introduction of our research results to the wider population, I will give the University of Tartu as an example of how it is organised in Tartu. Each foreign-language doctoral thesis must include a summary in Estonian needed to develop the scientific vocabulary, but it must also contain one page in such a language as an overview of the doctoral thesis so that Grandma can understand what it is about. Such page-long summaries are also published on the university's website. So it's being dealt with. In general, however, other universities should look at how important this is. Unfortunately, there is no such regulation in all universities.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U69	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U70	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good waitress, thank you for your presentation. Language is a living and evolving organism. In order to develop the Estonian language, the Ministry of Education received the task of preparing a strategy for developing the Estonian language 20 years ago. This strategy is a comprehensive document that must contribute to the use of the Estonian language in all areas of life, it must be thoughtful to support the learning, study and, in fact, protection of the Estonian language. But the development of the Estonian language certainly involves more than just teaching the Estonian language. At the same time, the idea that the national development plan for the Estonian language is not needed has now started to move again, and could be integrated into the lifelong learning strategy. I ask you to comment on this: what do you think of this idea and do you consider it important that the Estonian language development plan still exists?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U71	Thank you, very good question! We have two long-term development plans that have been thoroughly developed and discussed in the field of Estonian language. Indeed, the second development plan ended in 2017. The question that is now going to happen is very legitimate. As far as I know, the Minister, who is also speaking today, will provide more clarification on this matter, which will be extended until 2020. The Estonian state needs a meaningful language policy, it is certainly important. And language policy is not only what the Department of Language of the Ministry of Education and Research does. Language policy is all you do, which all of Estonia needs. In the future, once we have extended this completed development plan by a few years, it is necessary to think about where the fundamentals of Estonian language policy are written, which category of document it is. There are 48 development plans and strategies in Estonia, as far as I know. It's probably a little too much. At the same time, in the language field, this is what I felt about the previous development plan, too, many things that have fallen between the chairs. Everyone recognises that the area is important, it needs to be developed, but who is doing it? The uncertainty of the person responsible for this has also been an obstacle. The short answer to you is: the Estonian language development plan is currently being extended. The Estonian state does not need to continue to exist without the development plan of the Estonian language; this is quite clear. Let's think together about what this roofing document needs!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U72	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U73	Thank you, good vice chairman. Thank you, Birute Glass, especially for your speech on the emotional beautiful final words that you said when thinking about the gift of the Republic of Estonia! I have this question: what is the situation of Estonian in the digital field? Would it require additional resources and, if so, what resources?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U74	The language technology development programme has already been the focus of the country's attention in several phases as a national programme. I think that there has been quite a lot of national attention against the development of digital uses of Estonian. I very much hope that this attention will also be expressed in the form of resource allocation. The fact that we have databases that we have language bodies is one thing. We have translation capacity and this is also a good solution for higher education. The level of machine translation is such that one or two foreign students present in the auditorium can be provided with a machine translation into English in parallel with the Estonian text. All these developments contribute to the survival and development of the Estonian language.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U75	Honourable Professor! Fifteen minutes left on the wing of the bird. Thank you for your contribution. Now it's time for us to negotiate. The first chair to be attended is the Minister. Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U76	Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Very respected performers! First of all, thank you very much to the Free Party for initiating a nationally important question. It is very, very sweet to talk about as important a topic as Estonian on the day after the mother tongue day. The strategic document of the Estonian language is primarily our Constitution. The Constitution says that it is the basis for us to maintain and develop Estonian language and culture. Consequently, other documents state that the Ministry of Education and Research is obliged to have strategies and development plans and to manage and monitor the implementation of the various programmes as a leader in the language field. And I am pleased to note that all the previous speakers today have been responsible for and are in charge of this work. Thanks a lot, everybody! Under various circumstances, we have indeed decided today that it is best to extend the current development plan to 2020. During this period, it is necessary to establish the basic positions regarding the Estonian language at the highest level, under the leadership of the language council, but certainly also with the help of the Riigikogu and many specialists. They would then mean agreements at a higher level than there are development plans on the basis of which concrete delivery can be made. As Professor Birute Klaas-Lang has already pointed out, I may emphasise once again that perhaps in the following development plans, it would be worth bringing language into strategies. This concerns both education and research issues, as well as a number of other sectoral documents, for which other ministries are responsible. In many respects, the development plan of the language remains the property of the Ministry of Education and Research and the Language Council. Several other development plans seem to have nothing to do with this subject, although we all understand that these follow-up actions should be reflected in other strategies. Many moments have been raised here today, and since indeed minutes run, as the President said, very quickly, I will run through a few topics. Our duty is to work together on developing, teaching and maintaining the Estonian language, starting with early childhood education, continuing in comprehensive school and upper secondary school, vocational school and higher education and further in lifelong learning. Several of these issues have also been heard today. First of all, our language teachers. In our early childhood education system, teaching the Estonian language is one of the main obligations. After all, our kindergarten teachers are in most higher education today and their responsibility is also to teach the Estonian language. I am thinking of not teaching the Estonian language as a foreign language, but simply teaching the Estonian language. Let us continue to look at our goals, which we certainly need. With regard to school readiness and the first stage of primary school, today we still have problems with functional reading skills, which are causing other problems in school. Our northern neighbours have very wisely highlighted the importance of functional reading skills, and we too should emphasise this in our education. Next step, let's see: can we make sufficient use of our best knowledge of literature, of our writers today? Can we be the best analysts in our written language? Has all of this been adequately addressed in existing strategies as well as in a number of other documents? We certainly have a lot of work to do in this area. But now the following theme, which has already been heard today, is Estonian language and digital environment. Is this area developing enough? Yes, there are a number of programmes, but there is still much to be done in this regard. At the same time, we are pleased to note that the awareness that our computer programs need to speak more in Estonian has risen. And we're already talking about the next steps in the digital environment, it's always on the agenda. The attitude of the private sector has also changed in many ways, awareness has increased and interest has increased. The topic of scientific terminology in Estonia has been less pronounced today, but it also needs attention. In addition to our own doctoral thesis, many research is done today in international collectives, it is based on English, and so the development of Estonian terminology has remained rather secondary. There is another area related to the Estonian language today, which was raised on the table with the question of Andres Ammas, and this is one of the key issues today. Yes, we already have a positive sign of return migration, but there are still a great many Estonian families, including families with children who live today outside Estonia, and in their native language environment, keeping them in their mother tongue education system is very important. Global school has been a very positive example. Several other programmes are also important. Developing digital textbooks and other digital learning materials is one of the good tools to keep these children involved. And another very much to say today: does our non-Estonian population speak Estonian? Is that all right today? We still have much to do, but the attitude put forward by the professors today is that it must be gradual. I think there's a serious question up here. Professor Ehala spoke about two-sided immersion and bringing Russian children more to the Estonian school and to the Estonian kindergarten. But this also raises the question that we have to answer very honestly in this Chamber: are our Estonian-speaking schools and our Estonian parents in kindergartens ready for this today? After all, this means a great deal of effort for those involved. Speaking of bilateral immersion, we have some good examples today, but it is still quite exceptional that the Estonian parent approves of both sides of the immersion of Russian and Estonian children. So that's the question. It can be one of the models. I can give a very specific example today: there is a public school in Narva, where intensive Estonian language learning for Russian children is taking place, and the interest is greater than that school can receive children today. So there's an interest, and we here have to wonder if we've done our best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U77	Thank you, Minister. I would like to draw everyone's attention to the fact that during the negotiations, the order of speakers is such that there are representatives of the political groups first and after that every member of the Riigikogu will have the opportunity to come to the chair. Jürgen Ligi will be the first to speak on behalf of the Reform Party Group. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U78	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, My conviction is that the next big social agreement, if you could say so, is to unite Estonian society through the language, from kindergarten onwards. All those soft variants where the decision-makers are, in sum, non-citizens and non-Estonians who determine the result of the election, simply do not work. They have not worked so far and will never work. But what triggers me every day to think about the subject of language is, how can I say, language skills in general. And I think there might be a small agreement in this room that we will decide to turn the Riigikogu and government into Estonian. I have the impressions of today's reports, but also from yesterday. When I start from yesterday, I am only talking about a very topical issue, because my mother tongue day has just passed. I watched another government briefing and listened to the Prime Minister speak. The tongue starts, I say, rotting out of my head. He thanks first about the question, then he says something, complains about the attack and announces a meeting about something. Of course, he talks like that every Wednesday. He talks about views, views, decisions, debates, disputes, solutions, speeches, using the same co-word, which is very often grammatically completely wrong. Very often, or always, he is rejecting some better solutions, or just twists and a clear sentence structure. It's pretty depressing. And it is not a question of one word. The question is whether we accept that parasitic words, poor language skills, eat up the Estonian language. But that's the way it is now. Instead of developing the Estonian language, we should talk about the change of Estonian language, not because of education, but because of illiteracy. The illiterate are, in fact, those who shape the Estonian language. And the Estonian language in this hall will also become increasingly flat, simpler and unfortunately more bureaucratic through us. But, well, you can't be one-sided, can you? We are all imperfect. I don't think I'm some kind of role model. I just want to inspire a certain attitude to everyone. I had to leave the hall when the Prime Minister used another parasite word that I don't have right now. When I returned, one member of the Riigikogu used the exact same word. And so that criticism does not remain one-sided, I note that today we also have the Minister of Language in the Chamber, who was also present yesterday, and did you notice how many times and in what sense he used the word 'today'? I think the Estonian language should be precise and diverse. We have time regulations, we have a form of the present, and we should not use the word 'today' as a communication word. I'm not fighting a single word here, I'm fighting an attitude. And it's not just about us, of course. If public service television today is precisely today! just announced that we had a day of speech, then used a formula, how it was now, to "how to make a speech." That's ugly! Well, my ears are starting to hurt. Can I have an extra three minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U79	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U80	I think we should do something. We should start by not letting the tongue worm. Those are all humane, but the parasites are not. That's what bothers me most. I also recall the words of the literary people that we are doing something through it. I also heard it from a writer several times today. Unfortunately, we're going through somewhere and force everything. The result is the destruction of some of the co-words, other sentence structures and deformities. This cherez or through, which I think is a much wider meaning in these languages, will also dominate us. Words like 'abil','moel', 'el', 'el', 'el', 'cause', 'way', 'after', 'with'. Everything's being pushed through somewhere. I have fought a lot of fights on this or these issues in various public offices. I'm very upset by overreciprocations, such cousins as 'now' or 'early'. No one remembers that there are the words 'now' or 'previously', but it is proud to say somehow by highlighting its status in a very complicated and sometimes double. What can we do? We still remind each other from time to time, even during this debate. I do not think I can do it again in the Riigikogu, but I have said the same to the Prime Minister alone. He's just made a stupid face, and it looks like I'm somewhere in Mustamäe walking from door to door, who needs to make a little contact and then move on. People just don't know the problem. High-level people simply do not recognise that language is something that has been given to us and that we must pass on. This is not a development that is currently taking place, it is a backward development. And that criticism isn't stellar. And I don't want to make a statement. For God's sake, I think this pretext is a format in which I refuse to participate because it's like some kind of trick-skiing. Trick skiing does not have much in common with health promotion and exercise. There's definitely movement. We're still dealing with language hygiene! I've been able to use this as a matter of fact, but I do not agree that this has been promoted in the government, too, by the State Chancellery to deal with it. I have also made vicious remarks, but I think language training is necessary and that the last language award would actually have been deserved by the Institute, which trained public officials. Actually, we should train ourselves too. In my group, I have trained and invited real experts to help. It helped a little, but it got a little pissed off, as expected. But I call on everyone to deal with these things! Thank you to the Free Party who brought the language to this hall! We're talking about infrastructure, but I hope a little bit about language hygiene. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U81	On behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group Barbi Pilvre, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U82	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen of the language! Colleagues! The Estonian written language is a romantic joint project, not self-evident, due to the happy chance and many efforts. The development of the Estonian language until the 19th century was known to be mainly a hobby of the Baltic German nobles and until that time also a phenomenon of the practical needs of the Baltic German church characters. In the 19th century, the Estonian language developed well thanks to literary and journalistic activities of Estonian writers Faehlmann, Kreutzwald, Jannsen and others who used mainly German. The Murretrich Estonian language, or rural language, began to become a more uniform written language after the first grammar books and other attempts to organize the language had been published. In the first half of the 20th century, or 100 years ago, the language was vigorously standardized. As a colourful stage of Estonian cultural history, we know Aavik's language innovation and the fight for the regulated Estonian language in the context of Veski-led language development. But only in 1917, or a hundred years ago, Estonian became an official language. Under the influence of school grammar and lyrics, the Estonian written language became considerably uniform during the first republic. In 1920 the University of Tartu was transformed into Estonian. This was not easy because there were no scientists or professors who speak Estonian. We heard here in the Riigikogu some time ago at a conference dedicated to the 80th anniversary of the creation of the Academy of Sciences, that Estonian science history until the 1920s is largely a Baltic German and Russian science story. It was only by the 40s of the last century that the Estonian written language based on the dialects of Northern Estonia had become a common written language in today's sense. During the Soviet occupation, studying and developing the Estonian language was a form of national resistance. In 1947 the Institute of Language and Literature was established, which has studied and described the grammar and vocabulary of the Estonian language scientifically for decades, created a language of proficiency and compiled dictionaries. The Estonian language as a romantic project has now come to an end, but it reached its climax at the end of the 1980s at the time of the national rise, which culminated in the restoration of Estonia's independence. The Pragmatic Revolution took place in the 1990s. Estonian is our only official language. We take it for granted that we have a rich Estonian language and literature. We wish to use the Estonian language in everyday practice and demand it with the rigour of a police officer, for example, in supermarkets and taxis. We want the Russian-speaking people here to speak Estonian well, and we are very strict language politicians. We will monitor what is happening to immigrants and returnees. At the same time, the good Estonian language skills of native Estonians are not self-evident. When faced with students, I see how difficult it is for them to express themselves in Estonian, to make sentences, to understand the exact meaning of words. As regards the right language, it was heard that many colleagues in the Riigikogu did not dare to speak the Estonian language dedicated to Mother's Day yesterday. Language is a living phenomenon and therefore a constant change. We have a very free internet language, sometimes a rogue press language. We have a rich literary language. The key area, however, is the language of science and higher education. Thank you, Professor Birute Klaas-Lang, for addressing this important key issue here. It is worth watching very critically what is happening in the Estonian higher education landscape. In recent years, it has been said how university education is systematically becoming English under the flag of internationalisation. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U83	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U84	In this hall, most of us have received higher education in Soviet Estonia, where, unlike some other republics of the Union, there was higher education in their native language and there was a persistent struggle against the Russification of university education. For example, I remember from my studies in the field of Estonian language and literature at the University of Tartu how they were opposed to the Russian language requirement for the dissertations. Now we encourage Master's students to write in English. I admit that I also strained my master's thesis some time ago in English, it was easier because scientific literature is in English anyway. Universities have found an opportunity to earn money by opening English-language curricula in order to cope with the lack of money caused by free higher education. It is not self-evident that our young people can study at master's level in Estonian. A year ago, in the Riigikogu, we discussed with the University of Tartu and Tallinn, taking the initiative of social democrats, what to do to keep higher education in Estonian. Science is international and university studies are science-based, that is clear. At the same time, the English-language articles of Estonian scientists disappear into massifs of scientific publications, and often Estonian scientists are unable to express their nuances of knowledge in Estonian in order to introduce them in the media here, for example. There's no time or motivation for that. Fortunately, even the conditions for funding research projects have now included an obligation to introduce their work to society through popularisation in Estonian. Hopefully, these requirements will help to maintain the ability to communicate academically in Estonian. At the same time, the pressure of English on education in Estonian is very great, and this may lead to a situation where we can see that it is easier to speak English in a narrow circle on some subjects. I bring, for example, international politics or business, technology, social innovations, just no language. Hopefully, we will not get back to the situation that prevailed in Estonia a hundred years ago when the university was taught in Russian and German and the more complicated conversation could not be developed without other language quotations. I hope that doesn't happen. We are keeping a close eye on what is happening in Russian schools, kindergartens and among the Russian population. It's important, but at the same time, we're giving ourselves the interesting why, is it about some kind of brawl? From the hand of your Estonian language. It may seem subtle to use English terms and claim that no progressive thoughts can be expressed in Estonian. Or maybe we're just too pragmatic. There are many teachers and intellectuals in the ranks of the Social Democrats, a cultural nation. Maybe we're all sensitive and dramatizing when we talk about the pressure of English. At the same time, I refer to this year's winner of the Wiedemann Language Prize, Professor Reet Kasik of the University of Tartu, who has said that our aim should not be to provide a favourable and high-quality English-language research and education service to the rest of the world. There was practically no Estonian intellectual society a hundred years ago. 'The written language is necessary in society when the language performs the functions of governance, management and education in society' has been clearly summed up by Reet Kasik. Otherwise, the written language will simply be reduced to everyday language. Hopefully, we will not turn back carelessly the great achievements of Estonian language developers and keepers in the 20th century. Estonian as a national infrastructure is a resourceful figure. I would like to thank my colleagues from the Free Party for raising the issue of Estonian as a matter of national importance in the Chamber of Riigikogu. This will certainly not be the last time the Estonian language situation will be dealt with in this hall. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U85	On behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U86	Mr President, I would like eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U87	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U88	Dear Minister, Honourable guests! First of all, congratulations on your mother tongue day! The mother tongue day was yesterday, but today's debate on a key national issue is unambiguously linked to this issue. At the beginning, I would like to thank those who have already spoken for their special thanks to Martin Ehala, professor of native language studies at the University of Tartu. Your speech really made me think very deeply. Estonian language and its development strategy are an important topic. As members of our Riigikogu, we also talk a lot about its importance here in the Riigikogu Hall as well as in the press. At the same time, it seems to me that we do not notice problems as closely as possible. Does Estonian need protection? In today's world, I'm sure. How to protect and how to ensure that speaking in Estonian is logical and pleasant and that it is not only those for whom the Estonian language is the mother tongue, but also those for whom this mother tongue is not, but who have embraced it? I sum up five acute problems that are striking out lately and which the Estonian state must deal with. Firstly, globalisation and our future in this process. The Estonian language teaching system has been based in many ways on whether it is necessary to teach the language to those for whom it is the mother tongue, or on those who have other, mostly Slavonic backgrounds, these people have either come here fresh or grown here, but they have Slavonic backgrounds. Experts now admit that if people come from other countries and have a completely different cultural background and maybe not even know how to read or write, but the interest and willingness to integrate they have, then there is a lack of methodology and materials for such people. A clear strategic choice must be made here. Our Constitution sets out the objective of ensuring the preservation of Estonian nationality, language and culture throughout the ages. The knowledge of the Estonian language and the teaching of the Estonian language are therefore in the interest of the existence of our country. I guess everyone who shows the will to learn Estonian must be able to do so without a queue, with the right methodology and at the right time. Yes, it requires, firstly, financial contributions, secondly, teachers and, thirdly, methodology, but it is in the interests of our country. Another important concern. Somehow, language learning for adults has been organised under different ministries and other institutions. Language studies are carried out by the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice, the unemployment fund and Innove, the Integration Foundation and the Language Department of the Ministry of Education and Research. In time, this may have been justified and there are reasons which are acceptable today, but in reality, due to this complex scheme and the financing mechanism, quite a number of target groups are overlooked. In particular, it can be seen in Ida-Virumaa. When a language learning programme is announced, queues immediately emerge. That is why I am talking about the Estonian language house, which should ultimately become the "language alert centre." In plain language, it is where a person comes when he or she needs any kind of language training. He or she will come and be assisted, will be found in accordance with his or her needs, or the Ministry of Education and Research will be signalled that there is a person or people to whom we have nothing to offer. For example, a group of doctors came to Ida-Virumaa a year ago. In short, the adult language learning system needs to be reviewed. The current system is not producing enough results. The third concern relates to the future of the Estonian language. The language only lives and develops if it is an education language and also a scientific language. If he doesn't exist as a scientific language, the language will no longer evolve. I'm describing the current situation. It is not a big secret that the English language is the main source of pressure in this context. It is easier and more logical to write a doctoral thesis and perhaps also a master's thesis in English. This is, however, a place where we must be guided not only by convenience but also by the needs and objectives of the country. All the doctoral thesis written in Estonia must be written either in Estonian or translated into Estonian. In my opinion, the discussion about the transfer of the Estonian Language Institute to university, which broke out a few years ago, was very damaging. It is of strategic importance that the Institute of the Estonian Language continues to be an independent institution. Fourthly, let's look to the future! The language in which the world of information technology speaks lives. So our objective must be ambitious. New electronic smart devices used by young people must speak in Estonian. This task is not easy and reminds me of the story from the journalism book: if the editor-in-chief comes and tells someone that tomorrow, please bring an elephant to the editor's office, then a good journalist will not ask where he gets it, does not say that he will not fit in here, is not possible. The real journalist asks, "What kind of elephant do you want, Indian or African elephant? ' I argue that the question of whether Estonian will become an IT language must not be answered by the Minister for Industry: 'This is not realistic. " You should work hard and even try to reach this obviously cynical market with the same large countries. And fifthly, we want to be surrounded by linguists and to enjoy learning the Estonian language, even simply because the language is beautiful and the language should speak in this country. Reality is different. Not everyone is linguists, and languages are often learned when there is an economic reason to know them. I want and I wish the Estonian language to become an economic language. Because if the economy is at the forefront and if our people are entrepreneurial at international level and speak Estonian, it will be interesting, will and need to know the national language. The Estonian language as an economic language is this golden key. Since our country and economic space are relatively small, it is a great ambition, especially in changing thinking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U89	On behalf of the Group of the Centre Party of March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U90	Honorable Chairman! Colleagues! First of all, the good Estonian language day, which was yesterday! And that's what I'd like to start with: last night's news was that about 6300 people made an Estonian preface and correctly wrote about 40 people. Everyone else made mistakes. So this kind of very exciting statistics. Now I'm going to turn back the history book a little bit while I graduated from college. I have graduated from the same university twice in 1984 and 1989 and in two specialties, and at the time I graduated from the Faculty of Chemistry, the materials discussed were scientific articles in English, German and Russian. We had to translate them into the correct Estonian scientific language and write our diploma work in Estonian. At the same time, it was not prohibited to protect diploma work in any of the world's languages. When you did the competition and wanted to get an acceptance or a diploma, you had to do the job in Russian and protect it in Moscow. This work must have been 50 pages long and in Russian at most. When you wanted to go to Oxford or somewhere else, you wrote 50 pages in English. I did my competitive work in Russian, I mean, translated it from Estonian into Russian and sent my work to Moscow, where I also received an acceptance. Upon graduating from psychology, it was exactly the same thing: the materials were in German and English, but the work had to be done in Estonian. At the same time, we had not been deprived of the opportunity to defend our work in any language, either English, French, German or any other language in which someone wanted to defend. To this end, an interpreter, who was a member of the Commission, was commissioned. This leads to the conclusion that in the Republic of Estonia, free higher education is awarded only in Estonian. And that means we are not preparing a workforce for the whole of Europe or the world. We don't prepare doctors to go elsewhere, we don't prepare teachers, we don't prepare anyone. We are preparing them for Estonia. And if they want to do their diploma thesis and doctoral thesis in English, they have to take the language examination, as was the case in the past. If you wanted to do a job in a foreign language, you had to take an English or German test to meet the candidate's minimum, according to which foreign language person was currently on this category's committee. He must have been able to appreciate your work. Now let's move on. I wrote down a few keywords. I mean, Estonian as such. The Estonian language is a small language, but it has a great soul. The Estonian language cannot be developed from morning to evening; it is not necessary. But we develop Estonian for people who want Estonian to be adapted to German, Finnish, English or Russian. It should be easier for people to speak that language. We promise not to make an essay. We promise to make mistakes in understanding the text, merely stating that functional reading is weak. "functional reading" is 60% of people's unintelligible words. It must be acknowledged that children, students, students and adults do not understand the text they are being given. They don't understand the content of the task, they don't understand logic because they're not trained to do it. The strongest man in the Riigikogu is, in fact, Sven. Too bad he's not in the hall. Sven's parasitic word is 'capatiet'. Why doesn't he say 'capacity', 'capacity to solve any problems'? He's got a 'capatiet'. I counted it once: 40 times in a speech. That's pretty great, if you take it like that. But please, where is the Estonian language here? Functional reading, I repeat once again, it is an understanding of the text, an understanding of the text and an understanding of the task itself, an understanding of how it must be solved. I'll give you an example of myself. A few weeks ago, I went to school to teach chemistry replacement lessons and read a new chemistry workbook. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U91	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U92	I've read this text through the holy shit! The crystal lattice is no longer a crystal lattice, the dissociation is no longer a dissociation, and many or many other concepts have been adapted in such a way that, since I have not actively taught at school for three years, I had to review what the hell they all mean to give students adequate answers. So really, really exciting! And it's not just about chemistry. Let's go to the Estonian language now. There are a million Estonian languages: is the Estonian language of Võru, is the Estonian language of Saaremaa, is the Estonian language of Viljandi, is the Estonian language of Valgamaa. But I'm sorry, Estonian is only one. Why so many different branches? It occurred to me that this dubious speculative idea that some small, central language of local culture is easier to protect than the Estonian language. A major reformer is not accessible to the small one. I mean a reformer who reforms or develops Estonian. These small sectors are easier to protect and better preserved than the general Estonian language. How is it possible to allow a person to make mistakes on the exams or elsewhere, because this is not an Estonian language exam? How is it possible that the same Mr. Ligi, who was just talking about adapting and bending the Estonian language, has brought new twists aside from our 14 corners: a protruding twist, a spraining twist, a spraining twist? There's gonna be new declinations: obscene declination, humiliating declination. Usually they are not suitable in Estonian. Estonian is a sacred language and Estonian is an identity. The false Estonian language inhibits the development of personality and brain and offends the national feeling of the Estonian citizen. The Estonian language must not be reformed or adapted to English, German, French and Russian. Please come to your senses! We are totally firing, standing up for the Estonian language, for Estonia! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U93	On behalf of the Free Party Group, Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U94	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, performers! Thank you, guests! Good people's representatives! First of all, on behalf of the Free Party Group, I would like to thank all the speakers for their presentations, but most of all, for the proposals they have made. I would like to explain once again why Estonian is the subject of national infrastructure. From the ranks of the Centre Party, questions were raised that infrastructure is just concrete and foundation. Perhaps we do not really know how to think that the Estonian language is the one that connects our infrastructure together, which makes progress in directions that unite one another. And since we don't think of language as infrastructure, we can't think that this infrastructure needs work, development, and money. We often forget that language is something that our ancestors have given us, and so it is our duty to pass it on to future generations. Honourable waitresses! I really thank you, on behalf of the whole Free Party Group, for these proposals. Our wish was for your presentations to end with concrete proposals. The beauty of the language and the importance of the language we talked about all yesterday, but, as we know, the Education Code and the Higher Education Code are currently being updated. With regard to both fields, in the case of both Estonian schools and Estonian higher education, we need to think about what can and can be done quickly to ensure that Estonian language stays and progresses. I warmly thank Tiit Aleksejev, Chairman of the Estonian Writers' Union, for pointing out the indistinguishable link between language and literature and the need to assess the work of the editor of literature much more than has been the case so far, so that the correct Estonian language is in everyday use and remains in all literary works. We did not touch on many areas in this debate: language technology, terminology, the question of dictionaries, the question of institutions, the existence of Estonian language teachers and the great work of Estonian language teachers. A number of issues that certainly require a similar debate have not been addressed. Thus, my first suggestion to respected MPs is that every year Estonian should be spoken at least once a year in the Chamber of the Riigikogu as an important national issue. We cannot think in any way, and we do not even have the right to think that Estonian language issues are solely the responsibility of the language department of the Ministry of Education and Research. The Estonian language is the happiness, joy, but also the duty of all of us. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U95	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U96	Good people's representatives! We do not think every day, and it is perhaps very nice not to think that only 112 years ago were there such times when Jaan Tõnisson and Ants Laikmaa were removed from one of the finest dining places in Kuressaare because they spoke in Estonian. We are so used to speaking in Estonian, and we can't even think otherwise. After all, we no longer think that the protest of intellectuals in the 1980s prevented Russian-speaking in Estonian kindergartens, Estonian schools, and Estonian higher education institutions. We don't have to think about it every day. All we need to know is that Estonian needs protection at times when it is kept. I don't mean that we don't care about our language or that we don't value it in any way. But at times it seems to me that we think too little of language as many spiritual values. We rush along with life and spin the wheel of life, trying to be successful and good, but forget that life is not only made of bread, but also needs to think about, appreciate and remember spiritual values. Good people's representatives! 20 years ago or a little more time ago, Sonda's schoolteacher Meinhard Laks moved through Estonia, thanks to whom we have our mother tongue day. He went from institution to establishment, from one person to another. I was young and naive at the time, and Meinhard Laks and I made the first proposal to celebrate the English language day. He was very persistent, and we got the national deadline for the mother tongue day on March 14th, the anniversary of Kristjan Jaak Peterson's birth, is the national deadline, is the mother tongue day. However, as you read yesterday, Estonia is 67th in the world for the happiness of the people, Finland is the first. Something's missing in our lives. Perhaps we do not dare to speak of soft values, because success and economic coping, the desire for someone to like somewhere, spurs us to look for something else and to work all the time. I'm addressing all representatives of the public. The honour and pride of the composition of this Riigikogu and the opportunity to announce 14 March, the national anniversary, would be a public holiday. It would be a gift worthy of the composition of this Riigikogu, which the Estonian language deserves. We do not have a public holiday dedicated to the language, but the Estonian language would deserve to be declared public holiday by its composition in 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U97	On behalf of the Conservative People's Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U98	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitresses! Colleagues! Madam Secretary! Using a beautiful modern Estonian language, I would like to say that there is a need for reflection. We are constantly hearing from the Estonian officials that they have individualizations, they have reflexes. But I'll start with the first guest report. Tiit Aleksejev told us about fiction, told us about the situation of literature and the Estonian language in this context. I would say that this is an extremely important aspect, because the language can be viewed in two ways. The language can be seen as an extensive phenomenon, once again, I use, you see, a foreign word. Let's imagine there's a lake. The surface of this lake may be quite large, but there is no depth on the lake: maybe a metre, then there will be a muddy bottom. Literary and scientific languages are the two that give the language depth. And when we think about the foreign word again in this context, they are so infiltrated! Then we see that the depth of our language is shrinking. If we compare this enthusiasm to which we viewed writers, literature 30, 40, 50 years ago, we will see that this enthusiasm has shrunk. Creative Library notebooks were captured from newspaper kiosk flights. There was a constant discussion about what kind of world literature works would necessarily need to be put around the land language to enrich our rural language to enrich our world image in order to deepen our cultural consciousness. Where's it all gone? It has remained the domain of individual circles, individual enthusiasts. And even worse, as we heard from the presentations today, our scientific language, our doctoral thesis, which is already not written enough, but in English. This, too, draws down on the depth of the tongue. We have a deep layer of mud at the bottom of the lake, and the depth of the water is shrinking. This is a serious problem and it is not possible to solve this problem by any administrative method, by any orders or by any development plans. This is the result of the soul of the people, and in the soul of the people, this trend is also borne by pragmatism, once again, you see, a foreign word. We'll think about whether I need it or not, whether it's good for me or not. I think it's better for me to do a master's degree or a doctoral thesis in English. Maybe it'll be published somewhere, I can pick it up nicely bound and go to some college or science center in England, put it on the table, get acquainted, say a good boy or girl, or maybe a ribbed-neutral phenomenon, and offer a job. There is nothing to do, we all have to live and pay our taxes, and we cannot blame people for how that attitude is. But if I compare what position our writers and artists were in just a few decades ago, and what position they are in now, the difference is colossal. And it's also reflected in the language, it's reflected in the authority of the language, it's reflected in the development of the language, and it's reflected in the stratification of the language. I can't think of a solution here. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U99	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U100	Since time runs, and I've been talking about most of my time here, a few words about other reports. Unfortunately, I cannot agree with Mr Ehala's postulates, at least as I understood them. I think it is necessary to bridge the language gap. This is one of the very clear pains of our society. However, I am not very sure whether these proposed solutions will close the language gap in the desired way or pave the way for Estonian language to disappear completely in certain parts of Estonia, especially in Ida-Virumaa. Russian simply takes over the positions because there are more Russians and Estonians study Russian in bilingual kindergartens just like in bilingual, actually in one-languages, already in a small way, and go to Russian or leave in the Estonian environment. I'm not sure that's the solution. I am not sure that this is also a political solution. I rather see here that, in political terms, it can pave the way for the introduction of two national languages. These are the moments of doubt and hesitation that I had. Basically, the postulates are correct, the problems are correct. Are the solutions right here I'd put a question mark on. As far as higher education is concerned, yesterday I asked the Minister what will become of our higher education if free higher education disappears at the moment, and we are going to have largely paid higher education, which, again, for purely pragmatic reasons, is becoming increasingly English-speaking. This is a perspective that we cannot throw away at all. I myself have experienced the transformation of a university of higher education, originally Audentes University, from a purely Estonian-language educational institution to a purely English-language unit at the current Tallinn University of Technology Institute of International Relations. This is one example, and I think we can also give other examples. It is very thoughtful when we talk about the fact that free higher education is not going to work out, additional funding is needed and paid education is one of the components of additional funding. I'm afraid that paid education will become mostly English, just as doctoral studies already exist. This, of course, strikes the Estonian language extremely painfully, as a cultural language. So the writing of the following educational plans and other schemes must certainly bear these concerns in mind. You can't go the easy way of resisting. The Estonian language has no easy way of resisting as a cultural language. It just doesn't exist, and we all have to understand it. Finally, what is the solution and what is the guarantee that Estonian language will last? What Hando Runnel literally wrote in the early 1980s as a national hero in his 'Home-goer': the land must be filled with children. If our children do not take the Estonian from us as carriers, then unfortunately, we are all mortal and the loss of Estonian is only a few generations away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U101	Honourable Riigikogu! In order for the debate to continue, we must vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on a proposal made by the Free Party Group and the National Defence Committee. The proposal reads as follows: extend the time of today's plenary session until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Please take a stand and vote. There were 28 members of the Riigikogu in favour of this proposal, no respondents or abstentions. The proposal was supported: the time of the sitting has been extended until the agenda was exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Let us continue with the speeches. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U102	Good Chairman! I was hoping and raking that I could perform at the full hall, but the feeling of the full hall was only for a moment. Once the previous speakers have praised and thanked all the speakers here, I will tie these praises and thanks to the bundle and multiply it over and over again. I can't be any worse, even though my own Estonian language is more corrupted than anything else, stuck full of custom, interpretations, lyrics, fishing muffles and, of course, slang. Yesterday was a mother tongue day, which I wrote in social media, or SOME, as the moderns tend to say, with a capital E in native language: Mother tongue. And I've been informed that English Day is a small star. I'm saying English Day doesn't go anywhere. If he goes somewhere, you have to close the door, otherwise we're out of our native language. My youth has been happy because I have always been surrounded by interesting people, and they have changed my mind a lot. I think it's hard to pull that brain shift back. One of my great teachers is Hardi, sitting here, who is now blushing quietly. I remember that once when Hard and I drove to Tartu together and Nina Hagen was under discussion, she said, "It's like a wild boar. " If it doesn't interest you to listen to Nina Hagen's creation, then what else? Arthur's smiling. But I remember, 'Time is running out of joints. " People went and didn't know what was going on. But nothing! The stage art master had a diplomat performance "Hamlet," where Artur was in Hamlet's father's role. They had ordered shirts with "Time from the joints" on them. Mart Helme was here talking about the land to be filled with children, that they might take it, of course! just over that language. The egg's teaching the cock today. I mean, my children say how it is right to speak according to Estonian rules. And I'm counting on it, but not a lot of it is enough when two seconds, sometimes three. I have a unique language, I enjoy it, and I think it's part of culture because subcultures complement culture. But now I'm going to get to the point of this long, shuffling introduction. My constituents are just like me. They're asking me that it's been so, uh, great smart talk, everybody's got a hey-hey-hey-hey, but when are you guys gonna talk about it? And I'll bring out two problems. The first problem is that the citizens of the Republic of Estonia at birth cannot receive Estonian language education free of charge. Yes, at the beginning of the first stage can be obtained, but after that there is not. We allow language learning for all other citizens of the Republic of Estonia, but not for the citizens of the Republic of Estonia after birth. Hence proposal number one: The citizen of the Republic of Estonia can study Estonian for free for the rest of his life. I think that my language would also need proofreading, and that my knowledge should also be supplemented by the latest language innovations. Here is the second suggestion. We are talking about the infrastructure of Estonian language, but the situation is that it is difficult and difficult to obtain service in Estonian at times. It doesn't bother a lot of people. Many people do not mind that workers in some supermarkets do not speak Estonian. They speak another language. But I say: this problem comes into this hall with a large pile of ash when a foreigner, German or English, looks back at us from there. We are a serious state and our constitution is credible if our service is in Estonian and if an Estonian-speaking person gets a job on the labour market. At present, knowledge of Russian is a condition for getting a job at times. Believe it or not, this is the day after Mother's Day, March 15th, 2018.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U103	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U104	Mr. Chairman! Honourable Riigikogu and everyone else who follows this discussion! I, too, am very grateful for the fact that this debate is taking place today, both for all the speakers and for the speakers. Surely the proposals that have been made here will fall on benevolent soil and we will work with them. However, aside from this debate, I am thinking not at all about language policy, but rather about the language of politics, which is the tool that we use in this Chamber. A little bit of that was touched by Jürgen Ligi. I think we often take this as some kind of provision, at least for those whose native language is Estonian. Among us are those colleagues for whom Estonian is not the native language, perhaps they will find it a little harder. But we should definitely not take it so easily. In fact, this excerpt quoted by Tiit Alexeyev from Thomas Stearns Eliot's essay 'The Social Function of the Luule' largely motivated my thinking. I'm going to quote it as a quote from a quote that really made me think. The poet has only an indirect duty to his people; his direct duty is against the language. As members of our Riigikogu, we certainly take it for granted that we have a duty to the people. For the other part, because we also have some kind of obligation to the language, we may be taking the language as a part of the policy rather than the use of the language as a part of the policy. This may in itself be somewhat provocative, but a very deep point of view immediately reminded me of Hando Runnel's role in the Estonian Congress and the Constitutional Assembly, as well as Paul-Eerik Rummo's role in the Riigikogu. After all, he was a member of the Riigikogu a long time ago. I don't know if they had some kind of role conflict in this job, but I'm sure that's the subject that makes you think. And we should also think about what our responsibility as representatives of the people is to the language, not only to the people, but also to the language. Of course, yesterday's reservation with places where we had to think very hard about how to write it correctly was a reminder that we were not perfect in this area. Members of the Riigikogu also very often write written texts, and frankly I have to admit that I am not very used to the fact that the texts I write are being edited. Especially what goes online, goes very straight and unambiguously. And at times there may be such an unreasonable opinion that there is no need to deliver. I recently had one experience with a longer text, edited by a language editor who has worked in an encyclopedia publisher. And it was quite a good experience to get feedback on how many places there really are where you can express yourself better, differently. Parasite expressions also tend to be written. Thus, the issue of the role of editing in an online world is very important, and especially those who write a lot of texts online should undergo training at least at this level to be able to analyze their own text. I think that applies to all of us. One thing that directly affects the work of members of the Riigikogu in this Chamber is certainly a verbatim. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U105	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U106	In previous formations, it was also the practice that when a member of the Riigikogu made a speech from this panel, he received a verbatim report on the table, which could be adjusted not to even rewrite it, but maybe linguistically specified in some places. I remember that I had a pretty interesting beginning and sometimes a little creepy reading about it. This way, you will understand not only the difference between oral and written texts, but also the effort that a language editor must put into writing in order to formulate an oral speech. The unedited stenogram reflects very clearly against the bumps of your own oral speech, which can be avoided and can be improved. As far as I know, these extracts can be asked if a member of the Riigikogu so wishes. I know Jüri Adams is probably the only consistent person who does it all the time. I forget myself, but sometimes it's good to watch, but you can't always. But I certainly advise everyone to ask for these extracts from time to time, this is a very developing thing. Now, some concrete examples of what's bothering you. I remember that once I was terribly disturbed when everyone in this Chamber who put the proposals to the vote spoke about the suggestions for improvement. Everyone imagined that they would propose improvements to the draft. However, we are dealing with amendments and we can never be sure that the amendment we are making will actually improve the draft text. Jürgen Ligi already referred to the word 'through' parasiticality, it is used 'via' or 'abil' instead. One thing that stands out very much is the simplified use of next words. It could still be made clear that we are holding this discussion on 15 March, not that on 15 March we have a discussion in the Chamber of Riigikogu. However, this is often said. And now, at the end of the day, what has bothered me most recently, which invades Estonian, and I honestly do not see a way to get rid of it. It's an unbridled use. It is a form of the future that is not really in Estonian. At first, I began to take note of this in this Chamber and in all kinds of press interviews in the oral text, but now, as time goes on, the more it penetrates the written texts. The influence of English on Estonian is evidently very strong here and cannot be avoided to the full. Finally, Martin Ehala spoke today about segregation. Last week I had the opportunity to visit Ida-Virumaa and at least those members of the councils and city and rural municipalities I met spoke very good Estonian. Certainly, however, we need to keep working. Another concern is the language of science, the language of doctoral thesis and the master's thesis. This must not become the same problem as the use of Estonian in Ida-Virumaa. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U107	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U108	Mr President, and the last ten colleagues. Today we are discussing the problems of Estonian as a national infrastructure. The Constitution really says that the state guarantees the preservation of the Estonian language through the ages. But what is real life like? What did we hear today? A language-separated school produces a language-separated society. And this is Estonia's most serious security threats, Professor Martin Ehala. Secondly, although the European Council recommends the use of the official language in research and universities, in our national university, but not only there, the official language has become the cuisine language. The final reservations of the state language have become the Academy of Arts and the Academy of Theatre and Music, in view of doctoral thesis. What can we conclude from this? Firstly, the foundation is weak, and it concerns basic and general education. On the other hand, the roof has gone away, I mean higher education, apart from the Academy of Arts and the Academy of Theatre and Music. The last time we discussed care problems as a key national issue, I asked who we are actually discouraging, bearing in mind that we are spending 0.6% of GDP on welfare and we are in a poor place in the OECD with this figure and 28th, or last, with Greece, among the countries of the European Union. At the same time, we strongly intimidate our potential enemy, Russia, and we are in the fourth ranking with 2.16%. But who do we really intimidate, our people or a potential enemy? Today's question is why we are not vigorously addressing Estonia's more serious security problem. Returning to Professor Ehala's presentation, I would argue that segregation and different schools are the problem. On the other hand, I would like to ask why we allow the national language to become the language of the kitchen. One could say yes, we are pragmatists have the need for funding and science will be done in English anyway. But I recall what the national language associations have suggested. The problem is the same elsewhere, but the real situation is sad: figuratively speaking, the roof is gone. As I said at the beginning of my speech, the Constitution promises to ensure the preservation of Estonian language and culture throughout the ages. Should the Constitution now be amended? Should this point be taken out or added to it 'if it does not diminish the competitiveness of the Estonian state in a globalised world'? Of course it's crazy, and I don't think that's an option at all. But something really needs to be done. I don't know what to do either. As is always the case with a crucial national issue, no decision will be taken today. There is only a chat room held by the few who have so much respect for the subject that they are in this Chamber. For me, speaking in the national language, in Estonian, is one of the clearest expressions of patriotism in today's world. As I have already said, it seems to me that this patriotism is becoming less and less and less, or that it is not being dealt with for any different reason. Well, it's more comfortable, so it's easier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U109	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U110	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Good guests! First of all, I want to thank the waitresses today. We once again had a thought-provoking debate on a crucial national issue. I thank Krista for giving this provocative title to this debate. I hope that this provocation will also lead to solutions or proposals and that the proposals that have been made here will also be implemented. But one thing has not been said here today, and it is a global concern that the number of languages in the world is decreasing at an extraordinary rate. Some scientists believe that there are, as Professor Ehala said, only half of the current 6,000 languages in the medium term, perhaps after 2050. And by the end of this century, perhaps only 10% of the languages still alive will be left in the world. If this rate is compared to the rate of biodiversity loss, the number of languages is decreasing four times faster than, for example, the number of bird species, which is also in decline. In summary, this picture is very sad. If we say today that we're going with the flow, it means admitting that the world is losing its tongues, and driving along with that mentality. If we want to say that no, we want to preserve our speciality, our exciting thinking models, which Estonian language allows, that we want to be different, that we want to be different in the world, and that we want to be different with our own language, then we need to move against the current. The reverse flow requires extraordinary confidence, extraordinary strength, an extraordinary desire to move against the current. But if we do not, the Estonian language will probably not be in place soon. I am very pleased that, at least here today, the people who have followed the debate on this important national issue and the people who have been reporting here are ready to move against the tide. I hope that this desire to move against the current will infect many through these people. I'm gonna extend my time a little bit.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U111	I'm extending your time. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U112	Thanks for the extension, big boss! I want to read Kristiina Ehin's poem to close the debate on today's key national issue. It has never been created for one show, and it speaks Estonian. The poem reads as follows: I want to know if we're gonna make it. A few more hundred more years in this giant tongues? There's a big slippery tongue crawling back. who ate little tongues in the rafters ♪ I'm a sprout ♪ ♪ I'm a tree ♪ which could conquer language heights ♪ To my ear ♪ ♪ You're gonna put your mouth on ♪ And you try to lean towards yourself. But I won't be moved by your honey and your baby here in the hall of the willow section answer you in passing maybe That's enough if you say just expensive ♪ Who laughs in his tongue ♪ ♪ Crying out ♪ when we nap in the English smart setting? I want to know if our language is proud Or is it doomed? Thank you and strength for all of us! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U113	Honourable Riigikogu! I hope you don't mind if I allow myself a procedural remark on the use of language in legislation. That's what happened last night. Look, when a young man asks her to marry me, he asks if you will marry me, she says, "Yes! ' But yesterday, on the proposal of the Committee on Economic Affairs, we finished reading the second draft, in which case the young lady answered the question: 'I am not going to say. ' I will close this item.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U114	Our next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Defence Union Act and the Income Tax Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. On behalf of the initiator, the Secretary of Defense Jüri Luik will make a presentation. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U115	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic will bring before you a draft law amending the Defence Union Act and the Income Tax Act. This draft deals with a wide range of aspects of the activities of the Defence Union. It is not a comprehensive draft, rather it focuses on the problems that are raised by the Defence Union itself and on which we are jointly trying to find a solution. I will name the subjects that this bill deals with. First of all, an ally's health check. The point is that if, at the moment of entering the Defence League, a medical certificate is to be issued, i.e. a health check, we would, according to the draft, release those members of the Defence League who have a weapons permit from that obligation, because that basically means that they have passed the health check. The Head of the Unit of the Defence League to which the person wishes to join shall have the right to be released from health surveillance. At the same time, we want to include in the law the requirement that a member of the Defence League has an obligation to inform its superiors of the deterioration of health if health does not meet the prescribed criteria. One of the main tasks of the Defence League is, of course, to prepare for the defence of the Estonian state. In the Defence League, there are many representatives of the agencies, after all, the defence allies coming from civil life. Among other things, many doctors and other medical practitioners belong to the Union, but according to the law currently in force, they do not have the right to provide medical care in any way, i.e. to provide health care in a more sophisticated legal language. The Defence League should register as a legal person who can provide healthcare, i.e. the Defence League should become a hospital. Of course, this is not appropriate, and the bill gives the Defence League the opportunity to provide health care within the limits of its competence. This is mainly in exercises, but also, of course, when some kind of crisis situation is resolved. The same concerns the handling of medicinal products. Again, very strict rules apply to handling medicines in Estonia, and this is natural in itself. On the other hand, it is clear that the Defence League must be equipped with medicines for exercises and certainly for medical assistance in crisis situations. The Defence League itself is responsible for the proper storage of medicinal products. The draft law also deals with the reimbursement of the medical costs of the Defence League members. At present, the law allows for reimbursement of the medical costs of an active member only if he or she has been injured during a training session of the Defence League. In fact, defence allies often take part in every possible rescue, emergency, often more dangerous than one exercise or another. So in this case, too, there is a compensation for the costs of medical treatment. The reimbursement of these medical costs also extends to the youth leaders of the Defence League, as youth leaders have more and more tasks, which also require their stay in the landscape, where accidents can really happen. The same draft also discusses the creation of a single database of the Defence Union. As we know, all these types of databases must be in the law. The database is used to record activities and events related to members of the Defence League, to plan staff needed for the activities of the Defence League and also for statistical purposes. And finally, a topic related to income tax. No income tax shall be levied on compensation for the use of a personal passenger car by a defence ally fulfilling his or her duty. That's what the Government of the Republic proposes. As you can see, the draft law deals with a number of important issues, which should make it more attractive and easier for the Defence League to enter. For its part, the Defence League can provide both social security and operational opportunities for its members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U116	Questions for the Minister, please! There are no questions. Thank you. Waitress of the National Defence Committee, Margus Tsahkna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U117	Honourable Chairman! Dear members of the Riigikogu who are interested in the success of the Defence League! The amendment of the Defence Union law is long awaited, and I am pleased that this draft has reached this debate. It is quick to process this draft • we hope that the Riigikogu will make these changes before spring's major exercise. They would then concern the Defence Leagues already participating in this year's major exercise, who would benefit from this legislative amendment, particularly as regards social guarantees, as well as others. So the Commission has paid its attention to the fact that we are dealing with this draft in a substantive and effective manner. I am not going to present the content of the draft at length, as the Minister has just done so. However, in addition to the changes mentioned by the Minister, I would like to add a few more points. Indeed, most of these changes have been made precisely on the proposal of the Defence Union itself. They regulate the day-to-day delivery of the Defence Union, reduce bureaucracy, allow more flexibility and increase real capacity, especially in the daily lives of defence allies. This will also increase Estonia's defence capabilities. One new issue is that a patriotic education programme for young people has been launched under the direction of the Ministry of Defence. With this draft, we foresee that, alongside the full members of the Defence League, certain social guarantees will also extend to the youth leaders of the Defence League. It is, in my opinion, a symbolic and substantive amendment that people who deal with our young people will also be covered by social guarantees concerning health insurance and other benefits if they are injured or otherwise affected during their studies. This is one way to add motivation to dealing with young people. In his presentation, the Minister outlined the main points that this bill will change when it becomes a law. I'm not gonna go over them. Before the first reading, the National Defence Committee discussed the draft with the Deputy Chancellor of Justice and Administration of the Ministry of Defence Erki Kodar and other officials of the Ministry of Defence at the meeting on 8 March. At this session, I was appointed rapporteur for the draft and decided by consensus to propose that the Riigikogu stop reading the draft at first. The Commission set the deadline for submitting amendments in accordance with the law at 5.15 p.m. on 29 March. I must also mention here that, before sending the draft to first reading, there was also a debate in the Commission on other issues concerning the Defence League. Our relationship with the DOD is very busy in that sense. For example, one subject that has been discussed for a long time concerns the land protection districts and the Ministry of Defence has promised to send its views before the second reading. I do not exclude that the Commission is also making any changes to this draft. Good Riigikogu, the Commission wants the first reading to be completed and we can work together before the second reading so that this draft can be even better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U118	Questions for the waitress. Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U119	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, You mentioned here possible amendments to the defence community. Do you have any idea or idea what other amendments might be like between two readings?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U120	Thank you. At the meeting with the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Defence, there were various technical proposals that would reduce red tape and increase the flexibility of the Defence Union. But it's more about our defenses. Of course, the most exciting thing that excites people is all about weapons, or the law of weapons. But these are topics that we did not specifically discuss in the preparation of the first reading of this draft. Since the Defence League is a well-democratic military voluntary organisation, its support and number of members are quite high here in the Riigikogu Hall. I'm sure there'll be suggestions. However, I would like to remind you that with draft 593 we want to move forward quickly so that these concrete changes can be put into effect in time. If we can add a few more proposals here with thought and analysis, this is very welcome, but I note that the view of the military capabilities of the Defence League must definitely be accompanied by our overall defence capabilities. And, good questioner, I don't need to introduce to you what problems still need to be solved in the Defence League.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-15_U121	Thank you, Margus Tsahkna! I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. The first reading of Bill 593 is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 29 March. Good luck! Closure of the sitting at 1:21 p.m.
