ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-07_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Before we go to today's agenda, we have a birthday to congratulate today. Good Enn, good luck and good luck to you! [[Let's hear it.]] And now it's time to go to the issue of drafts and enquiries. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-07_U2	I don't know if it qualifies as a birthday present, but I'm gonna hand over one bill to the Riigikogu Board for processing. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I will begin by saying that we wanted the best, but it turned out the way we always did. When we read the news yesterday, we saw that at least the news about national broadcasting was a very long and analytic story about what was happening on the Estonian pharmacy market. The pharmacy market is certainly an issue that creates emotions for many people. When you think about what this regulation was created for in its time, it was created with the hope that we will be able to take account of the judgment of the Supreme Court concerning the restrictions on establishment. In fact, the changes have led to a situation where the pharmacy market has become more confused. Such incomprehensible, dim schemes in property relations should not apply in Estonia. We have a rather simple proposal concerning restrictions on ownership: property should not be restricted in the Republic of Estonia. If someone wants to own a company or something, such as a pharmacy, this property should not be restricted. As a result, we have a law amending the pharmaceutical law, the main objective of which is the abolition of ownership restrictions imposed on pharmacies in the case of companies. For self-employed persons, the requirement that self-employed persons should be a pharmacist remains valid. On the other hand, it is necessary to maintain the possibility of having pharmacies in rural areas, but there should not be rare pharmacies in cities. That provision remained in force. Have a good one! We hope that this bill will be passed as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-07_U3	On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted a draft. The Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on its further processing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Home of the Riigikogu Act. Now the messages. Today, after the plenary session, a meeting of the Tartu Church Support Group will be held in the Chamber, and Jüri Adams will be convened. Incoming check, please! 69 members of the Riigikogu are present, 32 are missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-07_U4	We are going to the agenda of today, 7 June, the only item of which is an overview of judicial order, justice and uniform application of the law. Priit Pikamäe, President of the Supreme Court, will present a speech chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-07_U5	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! From the point of view of the judicial system, Estonia's attainment of civil society is characterised by the excess of civil matters among the cases. Since crime in Estonia is still in decline and the number of administrative matters is persistently low due to the small size of our administrative sphere, civil matters account for over 2/3 of all things that are examined in our first instance courts over the last five years. Thus, problems arising during civil proceedings have the greatest impact on the functioning of the Estonian judicial system and their rapid removal in parliament would facilitate the work of courts in resolving the vast majority of matters. In today's presentation, the focus was on two of the biggest circles of problems in civil proceedings: shortcomings in the regulation on the payment of child support to minors and ways of improving the efficiency of civil proceedings. Finally, let me also mention very briefly the bottlenecks in the legislative process. Last year, in 2017, the Chairman of the Tartu Circuit Court and the chairmen of civil colleges from the District Courts and the Supreme Court collectively addressed the Minister of Justice with concern that the rigid link between the minimum child's child and the minimum wage is not justified and no longer meets the needs of practice. According to the Family Law, monthly maintenance for one child cannot be less than half the minimum monthly wage established by the Government of the Republic. The Civil Chamber of the Supreme Court has pointed out in several decisions that today the payment of half of the minimum living allowance as a minimum wage may be due to the rapid rise in the minimum wage The minimum wage does not relate to the child's needs and does not take into account the parents' ability to pay for a living. According to the current regulation, for example, a parent of two children receiving minimum pay must pay all his or her income for child maintenance, while a parent with three children should find another half of the minimum wage. According to Statistics Estonia, the average gross monthly wage was 1221 euros per month in 2017. A parent with this income should pay three children who are currently separated from him for almost three quarters of their net income of 1039 euros, i.e. 750 euros, by law. The legislator has decided that a child's livelihood can be reduced below the minimum for good reasons only. According to the model list provided for in the Family Act, a good reason may be, inter alia, that a parent is unable to work or has another child who would prove to be less insured than a child who receives a child's livelihood. Since a large proportion of parents liable for maintenance cannot afford to pay a minimum child, a situation has arisen where courts are overburdened with the processing of actions seeking to reduce maintenance below the minimum rate. The Civil Chamber of the Supreme Court has already emphasised in several decisions that the legislator's activities in regulating legal relations in a way that results in the application of the exception to the majority and the application of the general rule laid down in the law only to the minority cannot be considered to be purposeful. A minimum livelihood cannot be considered to be targeted if, in most cases, the dispute resolves to prove whether or not there is a valid reason to reduce maintenance below the minimum. In parallel, case law has been forced to find new and compelling reasons to ensure the constitutional use of the existing regulation of minimum livelihoods. It is regrettable that due to the rigidity of the regulation on child maintenance, the resolution of child maintenance disputes in courts has become very time- and resource-intensive. However, such cases should, in particular, be resolved quickly and effectively in the interests of children. It must also be borne in mind that the settlement of child maintenance disputes is also a burden on the parties to proceedings, causing them high costs of time and legal assistance, as well as on the State, which has a considerable cost of procedural assistance. However, there is no reason to claim that disputes of this kind arise from nothing. The caselaw confirms that if there is a dispute over the maintenance of a minor child, the reason is that the parent's scarce resources are not sufficient to pay the minimum subsistence. In summary, it can be argued that judicial maintenance disputes reflect a serious social problem, the solution of which requires intervention by the legislator. However, the effective solutions to this bottleneck cannot be considered to be the pressure on maintenance debtors, at least in the form decided on by the law amending the recently adopted Code of Enforcement Procedure and the related amendment of other laws. This is because, as a rule, maintenance debtors are simply people earning low incomes, not those who try to hide their incomes. According to the explanatory memorandum to this draft law, it was Parliament's intention to force maintenance creditors to pay their maintenance on a regular basis by restricting their rights, without the imposition of a penalty. The caselaw, on the other hand, confirms that when the rights of people who are unable to meet their obligations because of the high minimum maintenance requirement are limited for objective reasons, this will further aggravate their poor economic situation. The suspension of the driving licence is particularly effective. The Civil Chamber of the Supreme Court has emphasised that the constitutional rights of the debtor may be significantly restricted in proceedings to restrict the rights of a maintenance debtor, including, for example, the right to free self-realisation and the right to freely choose the occupation, profession and job. Thus, the negative outcome of a disproportionate and rigid regulation of child maintenance is, among other things, that the measures used to pressure maintenance creditors are often not applied for the purpose. It is also doubtful whether, in essence, the restriction of rights does not involve penalising maintenance debtors outside of penal law. It is also questionable whether such a restriction of rights meets the requirements of the constitutional proportionality test, and the limitation of fundamental rights must not be arbitrary, but must also be appropriate and necessary for the attainment of the objective pursued. As a result, I am of the opinion that Parliament should consider changing the regulation of the minimum livelihood for a minor child and introduce a more flexible method of calculating the amount of maintenance. The introduction of a need-based minimum livelihood based on studies should be discussed. I now come to the rules of civil procedure itself. Civil proceedings can be considered to be optimally organised if, on the one hand, they ensure that the parties to proceedings have a swift and fair trial that respects their rights and, on the other hand, the time and money of the State and of the parties to proceedings are no longer spent if it is essential to achieve the desired result. The fulfilment of this general objective requires a continuous analysis of the current legal framework in the light of case law in order to determine to what extent the rules on legal proceedings can be clarified. The practice of civil proceedings confirms that a large saving of the resources of the parties to the proceedings and of the State would be possible if, at the level of each civil law, the most appropriate form of proceedings were brought or brought without an action. It is clear from the caselaw that disputes concerning the termination of the co-ownership could be referred to the proceedings without an action. An action would allow the courts to demonstrate greater flexibility in the division of the subject-matter of the dispute by increasing the discretion of the court. Under the current organisation of civil proceedings, the applicant has been granted an absolute right by law to order the termination of its co-ownership, but in the case of methods of division, the court is still bound by the actions brought by the parties. The practice of the Civil Chamber of the Supreme Court shows that such an arrangement does not allow the claimant to effectively realise the termination of the co-ownership and is uneconomical. The opposing party is, in turn, forced to bring an action to achieve the method of division it wishes and to make additional expenses. On the contrary, in the same area, the Apartment Ownership and Housing Association Act has entered into force on 1 January this year, pursuant to which the financial utilities of the housing associations and disputes concerning the decisions of the cooperatives are settled without an action being brought. Such a solution is impractical because it creates unjustified additional work for the courts, while at the same time burdening the parties to the proceedings, because all the owners of the dwelling are unnecessarily involved. Alongside the analysis of certain forms of dispute settlement proceedings, the issue of how to improve the review of specific litigation in particular is worth discussing. Thus, bankruptcy disputes, for example, have become more difficult over time. Although the Estonian judicial system has so far been based on the understanding that specialisation of judges is supported instead of the creation of special courts in certain areas, bankruptcy disputes are so important that it is worth discussing the creation of separate bankruptcy courts at least. The creation of these courts would allow the resolution of bankruptcy cases to bring together different competences, including economic experts, whose knowledge and skills would ensure the highest level of evaluation of economic activity. However, regardless of the establishment of bankruptcy courts, consideration should be given, as a separate question, to making the system for the appointment of insolvency practitioners externally more objective and fairer, in order to avoid years of complaining that judges appoint managers that are acceptable to them in the proceedings. This alone leads to unjustified mistrust of bankruptcy proceedings and may hinder the resolution of the case. The mechanism for determining procedural costs, which should ideally work in such a way as to minimise the cost of time for all parties involved, including the judiciary itself, also deserves attention. To that end, it would be necessary to establish by law the possibility for parties to proceedings to submit a list of costs as a whole before a decision is taken within a period to be determined by the court and not before each hearing. It cannot be overlooked that although the Supreme Court's General Assembly declared the limits for the collection of the costs of a contractual representative to be unconstitutional and invalid, the extent of the collection of the costs of representation from the opposite party has not yet been specified at the level of the Act. If this were done, the costs of legal proceedings would be more predictable for the parties to the proceedings and easier to determine the costs of judicial proceedings. However, speaking of optimising the rules of civil procedure by means of the above examples, it must be borne in mind that this must not be at the expense of the fundamental rights of the parties to proceedings. One of the central fundamental rights relating to legal proceedings is certainly the right of everyone to be present at the trial. A system of excessively simplified service of procedural documents may lead to the parties not actually receiving the procedural documents delivered to them in public. In practice, many problems have arisen, for example, by sending a procedural document. The relevant provision of the Code of Civil Procedure allows the service of procedural documents only by sending them out without confirmation of receipt. Such an approach, which makes it possible to make substantial concessions in the service of procedural documents but, on the other hand, produces new cases, can only be regarded as unreasonable, as the parties to the proceedings are forced to return to court because they have not been served. Parliament could alter the current procedure for service of procedural documents to the extent that the above provisions are not complied with, at least, by the application, by the application without action, by amending or supplementing the action and by service of the counterclaim. Relations between courts and parties to proceedings shall also be governed by the rules governing the publicisation of the decision. Although Estonia's reputation as an e-state is good, we can still find provisions in our procedural laws, where we cannot ignore the question of whether they really support this image. For example, the current regulation of civil procedure provides for a decision to be made by announcement or by the Registry. If we already have a functioning judicial information system, it is incomprehensible why the disclosure of the court settlement could not take place through this same information system. It cannot be overlooked, however, that the current system of digital signature of judicial decisions is in a situation where dozens, if not hundreds, of procedural documents have to be signed daily, time-consuming and with other shortcomings. This is particularly the case if the document is to be signed by a collegial formation, i.e. it must be signed by several signatures at the same time. In practice, there are cases where the system does not record or notify the signature of several judges when signing a simultaneous solution, but creates an external impression of signing a document. For these reasons, among other reasons, the Supreme Court still signs the orders for processing complaints or refusing them by hand, because digital signing of so many documents would take an unreasonable amount of working time, not to mention the stress caused by the improvement of system errors in people's digital signatures. Therefore, at least the judicial system looks forward to the development of a comprehensive document signing solution that would allow digital signatures to be transferred to several solutions in one motion at a time. Alternatively, the legislator could consider giving up the mystification of the signature altogether by allowing the decision to be deemed to have been confirmed by the signature of the President only instead of the signatures of all the members of the formation of the court, or by more generally trusting the judicial authority by accepting, instead of the signature, for example, the seal of confirmation of the Registry. Such a solution would also bring the functioning of the judicial system closer to other branches of the state, as it is known that the enforcement of the Riigikogu Act or the Government of the Republic regulation does not require the signatures of all the members of the respective assembly. It is equally important to strike a balance between the intelligent use of the resources of the judiciary and the right of appeal of the parties to proceedings. In my presentation, I drew the attention of the House of Judges in 2017 to the fact that the possibilities of appeal contained in the existing laws on legal proceedings may, in certain cases, be manifestly impractical, as they do not contribute to a legal peace but allow for a delay in the enforcement of the decision by appeal. Although the Code of Administrative Court Procedure has already been properly reviewed by the legislator in this area, other types of judicial proceedings, including civil proceedings, are still pending. In civil proceedings, the limitations of the appeal of simple proceedings and the possibilities of refusing to deal with open-ended appeals would certainly need to be clarified. The parties to proceedings and the courts must be clearly aware of the circumstances in which the courts have the right to refuse or to proceed with the processing of procedural documents under a simplified procedure. Finally, a few observations on the legislative process in the context of civil procedure. It is elementary that an amendment to a provision of a single act should be made to ensure that the amendment is consistent with other acts. However, since this is not always respected, for example, the amendment of the Population Register Act, which enters into force on 1 January 2019, confirms the legal force given to address data in the population register. However, these amendments are not bound by the corresponding provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure. Therefore, the new regulation of the Population Register Act, which will enter into force on 1 January next year, cannot be complied with in civil proceedings, according to which, in the performance of a public task, a document must also be sent, according to the draft explanatory memorandum, to the address of the place of residence or stay entered in the population register and the document thus sent shall be deemed to have been served. I do not want to go into the debate here on the reasonableness of these changes, but this example vividly illustrates how legislation should not work. Since the Code of Civil Procedure provides for a special procedure for the service of procedural documents, the new regulation on service cannot be applied in civil proceedings. It remains to be hoped that the legislator will be able to regulate the relationship between the two laws before the amendments to the Population Register Act enter into force. Only bad legislative practice can be considered to be the introduction of a new regulation on the placement of children in an institution closed to children, which entered into force on 1 January of this year, in connection with the repeal of the current Act on Minor Influences. As a result of the liquidation of the committees which applied the juvenile's leverage, Parliament decided to transfer minors to a closed child institution to the courts which will have to deal with such requests in the future under civil procedure. This reform may even prove justified, but it is questionable that, as a result, even a few weeks before the legislative amendment came into force, the courts did not know that they would have to deal with disputes in this area immediately. It is therefore worth stressing once again that there must be a reasonable transition period between the adoption and entry into force of major legislative amendments, which, for example, in the case of the judicial system, would allow judges to be trained and reorganised in a timely manner. Thank you for your attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-07_U6	Thank you, President of the Supreme Court! Before we go to questions and answers, I remind the members of the Riigikogu that there is one oral question for the rapporteur and only the representatives of the political groups can take part in the negotiations. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-07_U7	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Dear President of the Supreme Court! Our party has come up with a reform of the justice system which concerns not only judges, but also the prosecutor's office and other parts of the system. Of course, a very acute reaction followed. Your colleague, Indrek Parrest, compared our proposal to turning to Stalinism, and the President of the Bar, Vallikiv, also spoke of Stalinism. I do not know where the Golag is in Estonia or whether some troikas have been formed at the Supreme Court, which organises the bubbling, but I find such comparisons absurd. However, I can see that both the circuit court and the Supreme Court are dealing with political choices and decisions in Estonia. In particular, we see this on the issue of the implementation or declaration of validity of the Cohabitation Act, but also on, for example, the payment of Greek debts or on a number of other issues. Do you really think that the Estonian judicial system is so impeccable that there is no need for repair?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-07_U8	Thank you for that question. Of course, here I can only represent my own position. If you start with the law, I think there's a Murphy law that says you can't fix it unless it's broken. In my opinion, nothing in the Estonian judicial system is broken enough to require such reforms. Moreover, I am absolutely convinced that the Estonian judicial system works impeccablely and exemplaryly, also in Europe-wide comparison. Therefore, I cannot in any way support the proposals that have sounded in this context. Moreover, I think that, if our constitution still provides for the principle of separation and balance of powers, it means, in a simplified way, that, among other things, every branch of state power has its own competence which does not coincide with the competence of other branches of state power. And to say, on the basis of a specific case, what is the substance of the law that is to be implemented is certainly the task of justice.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-07_U9	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-07_U10	Thank you, Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Honourable President of the Supreme Court! The claim that the Estonian judicial system is impeccable is certainly a very strong and fundamental statement, especially given this fact, you can correct me, that nearly half of the judgments that come from the county court will, as far as I know, be converted into a court of second instance. Is it impeccable? I dare remain critical. But can you please enlighten us in this Chamber of the Riigikogu, who will carry out and how effectively follow-up the judges and prosecutors? If a judge goes against the principles and ethics of his work and makes some decisions based, for example, on his personal interests, then who can fire him? How many of these cases have come up? Has this system really worked impeccablely? Please explain to us how judges and prosecutors can be released in the prosecutor's office and in the judicial system if necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-07_U11	Thank you for this question. First of all, starting from the beginning of your question: I have always said, and also here at the Riigikogu's premiere, that the quality of judicial decisions cannot in itself be determined by the extent to which they are changed to a higher degree. This is simply because the decision to challenge an appeal may, among other things, be amended in the light of the notion that the Supreme Court gives a different interpretation of the case. That is inevitably the logic of justice. To say that the judges of first instance, who have interpreted the same norm in another way, have made the wrong decision, cannot. However, in my opinion, this is something I have also repeatedly emphasised, but we should try to move more towards achieving legal peace as soon as possible in the legal dispute. This means that we should still reasonably consider which decisions are subject to the possibility of ensuring and for which to say that the court settlement that has already been given will enter into force as it has been adopted at this stage. This is in the form of a so-called introductory note. Coming to the second part of your question, if you answer very briefly who is supervising, in criminal proceedings, the prosecutor's office will be supervised by a court. The prosecutor's office, indictment, is seeking a conviction from the court, and that is what the court will check in the course of the trial whether the prosecution's conduct in criminal proceedings has been legitimate or not, and if it has not, the court will respond accordingly. As regards the supervision of the judicial system itself, the same principle of separation of powers and the principle of equalisation is a perfectly general accepted notion that the judicial system itself controls the legality of its decisions. That is why the judicial system is multi-stage: the first-degree decision can be appealed to the circuit court, from the circuit court to an even higher court. This is autonomous control, which is essential if we are to ensure that the principle of separation of powers is realised. But that doesn't mean that the judge isn't responsible for the mistakes that are considered to be his disciplinary action. The system of disciplinary liability of judges also works perfectly in Estonia. There have been enough cases in the Estonian judicial system where the judiciary itself has decided to reduce one or another judge for any disciplinary action. I dare remind you that one of these cases with a particular judge of the Viru County Court dates back to quite recent times.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-07_U12	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-07_U13	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr President of the Supreme Court, thank you for your review. I very much agree with you that the system for determining maintenance needs to be changed quickly and the problem solved. I also asked the Minister of Justice a week ago a question on this subject, and I received the answer that the preparation for a more flexible regulation was ongoing. Unfortunately, in a situation where the number of debtors has increased by nearly 1,000, it is already late, but it is good if it reaches our tables sometime. However, I have a question of protecting children's interests. Today we talk a lot about money only. Divorced as spouses, but parents continue to be parents. Have judges come up with problems or other ideas that should be changed in legislation so that children's interests are also more protected in kind?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-07_U14	Thank you for this question. I think that the judiciary should certainly be involved in discussing these issues, also in the preparation of draft legislation. However, if we look at the existing laws on legal proceedings, which also concern the duty of the court to comply with the interests of children, we see that the laws are quite regulatory. For example, in civil proceedings, the principle that the interests of children are concerned is that the court may also collect evidence of its own motion, regardless of the parties' request. This is one example of the fact that clearly there has been a bow to the protection of children's interests. And as a more general principle, there is still the notion that when it comes to resolving disputes concerning children, it is the duty of the court to put the interests of children first.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-07_U15	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-07_U16	Thank you, good vice chairman. Head of the Supreme Court! I think when they get to court, the victims will actually be on both sides. Going to court when the process hurts. You have, for a very long time, put forward various proposals on how the procedure could be made more effective through various legislative changes in the Riigikogu. However, in the context of the reform of the state, we are increasingly talking about promoting the changes that are made without amending the laws. What are your winnings in order to achieve the effectiveness of the procedure without introducing legislative changes and what are the next steps?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-07_U17	Thank you for this extremely interesting and complex question. In general, I must admit that the court is still bound by the procedural law prescribed by the legislator. If we look at the development of our procedural laws, there is clearly a tendency: it is the fact that procedural laws are getting thicker and thicker. This means that the legislator increasingly wishes to regulate all procedural matters in detail. When we look at the Code of Criminal Procedure or Civil Procedure, we see that these are quite intrusive legislation. Neither the courts have much choice of procedural rules is mandatory; non-compliance with these rules may lead to the annulment of the decision. So even though we have some levers in our hands, they consist in framing case law, their use is still extremely limited. However, the specific nature of judicial action is that it is governed by the Code of Procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-07_U18	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-07_U19	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! When I listened to your report, one of the messages that came out of it was that there are issues in people-to-people relationships that the court should not resolve. On the one hand, the courts are being burdened, but on the other hand, it signals that people trust the courts and want the courts to resolve their questions. Or it is because our legislative space is such that we do not have an alternative. I can bring the parallel that, just in case of a car accident, we're calling in a police officer instead of resolving the situation between ourselves. For the sake of security, we want to invite him in, even though it might not help us get the insurance money. You also touched on family relationships. Would there be any alternative to these disputes for maintenance and other disputes, such as a reasonable conciliation of a certain type at another level, which does not require higher legal competence? Or is it not?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-07_U20	Thank you. I think it certainly is. In fact, it is quite an old view that instead of going to court, other ways of settling a dispute should be preferred. Access to justice should remain the last option. If we look more broadly, these roads have also been introduced in Estonia. Perhaps the best example is the labour dispute committees. Labour dispute committees allow for a pre-trial settlement of basic labour disputes, and our statistics tend to show that only 10 to 15% of the decisions of the Labour Dispute Committee are appealed to the courts. This is one mechanism that allows the court to be avoided. The procedural work in the committee is certainly much easier than the procedure before the court. Another example is the same fixing of the traffic accident you referred to. A mechanism has also been put in place for this to happen, so that once the parties have reached an agreement, there is no need to call the police, the fixing of what has happened will be very successful by the parties concerned. But when we come back to the maintenance disputes, I think that the main concern is not so much that we do not have an extra-judicial dispute settlement facility, but rather the problem is the rigid lawfulness of regulation of minimum living, just as we do now. This in itself produces litigation. This is an example of how an extraordinarily large number of litigations can be brought about by a single law. This is what I wanted to point out in my presentation today, so that you can think about how to make this regulation more flexible, and also so that parents do not have to go to court to resolve these issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-07_U21	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-07_U22	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! I'm interested in the supplement on statistics that we have here. These figures do not actually indicate what the real dynamics of the burden on the judiciary are. In one place there are also cases of execution judges under criminal proceedings, in the second line I read that criminal cases, which are supposedly very complicated, have been reduced. How's that really going to work? And if the question were to be extended further, this week we were also talking about state reform and substitution activities. Are there any replacements in the justice system? Indeed, they can take place on the basis of the rules of procedure laid down entirely by law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-07_U23	Thank you. Starting with the first part of the question, I admit that a bit of prior knowledge is needed to examine the statistics of the courts in order to understand exactly what these terms represent here. The criminal proceedings referred to by you still refer to all cases that are dealt with by the courts under the Code of Criminal Procedure. It is just this code that is such a complex set of rules, which involves very different things, from the prosecution of criminal charges in court to, for example, the resolution of international legal aid applications. This is the general concept of criminal proceedings, i.e. all those matters that the court settles under the Code of Criminal Procedure. If we look at this segment from statistics, it is quite understandable that, as crime is in decline, the number of criminal cases in itself is now literally on the downward trend. So there's this whole connection right here. Now, the volume of civil cases in the Estonian courts is the largest: there are 30000 civil cases to be settled only in county courts. In addition to the simplified procedure, i.e. the urgent procedure for the payment order, the total number is 60000. That's an impressive number. In comparison to last year, the number of civil cases has fallen somewhat, but this is still the largest part of what the courts will solve. And then there's the administrative business. As mentioned, Estonia is a small country, the sphere of our administrative activities is limited. This is also reflected in administrative court proceedings: we have the lowest number of cases to be discussed in administrative courts. Of these, almost a third are complaints from detainees. But now, if you ask whether there are substitution activities in the judicial system, this can primarily concern the administration of the judicial system through the Ministry of Justice. Lately, I have to admit that I am fortunate to see the role played by substitution activities getting smaller and smaller. That's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-07_U24	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-07_U25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear President of the Supreme Court! Let's start with a few terms that I think are very characteristic of describing the current system. First of all, we use the word 'lawyer', which actually comes from the German word Rechtsstaat, which, by the way, was also used in Hitler-Germany. This is very characteristic, rather than using the Anglo-Saxon legal space term the rule of law, or 'law power'. We are a rule of law, where one political paradigm has been declared to be the only right one, and the interpretation of all legislation goes according to this paradigm. It's a move towards totalitarianism. But here's the question. Is it a one-way street that judges can blame and insult politicians? The easiest thing to laugh at is that politicians have failed to do the job, and there is nothing we can do about it. But when politicians say something about a court, it is an attack on the principle of separation of powers. What's your comment?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-07_U26	Thank you for this question. If you start by arguing over the term, as far as I've been communicating with my British colleagues, it's understandable as the rule of law that you referred to there. Basically, the content of these terms is exactly the same, although they differ from the original language. When we talk about the adequacy of translation, the term rule of law has so far been translated into Estonian as the rule of law or the rule of law. Secondly, I must admit that I do not know anything about the prevailing political paradigm, that I do not know what to say, and that is not my job. However, when I put my hand to my heart, I very much hope that the Estonian judges will also behave respectfully and in accordance with the judicial profession with regard to the representatives of other branches of state power. But when it comes to whether to criticise or not to criticise, there is, in general, the notion elsewhere in Europe that the highest judicial decisions which are not subject to appeal are always and everywhere open to academic discussion. They can be discussed. This is because otherwise the case law of the Supreme Court will not evolve. But this discussion must be a legal discussion. This discussion must not be extra-legal, because in this case we would not be dealing with any issue at the same level. In this sense, I see no problem in criticising the highest case law, and this criticism is consistently passed on by Estonian legal journalism. If you follow Juridica Abstract magazine, for example, you will know that articles have been published that reproach the views of the Supreme Court on one issue or another and draw attention to how one or the other issue could have been resolved better. This is a perfectly natural part of the justice process.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-07_U27	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-07_U28	Good manager! Good waitress! You're saying there's more than two thirds of civil matters. But in a civil college, you have seven judges, six in a criminal college, even though there are less than one third of criminal cases. Maybe we should reduce the criminal college to three people. But that's what it is. You are talking about paying children a living in view of the fact that the family law that we introduced seven years ago is rigid and does not take into account the real life of applying the exception to the majority and applying the general rule to the minority. Make a little suggestion on how we can eliminate this rigidity, and we'll let it go!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-07_U29	Thank you. My role in today's presentation is, above all, to draw Parliament's attention to the fact that this is a problem. And the problem is serious: when I look at the statistics on maintenance disputes, I see that over the last five years, there have been a thousand more in Estonian courts. Two thirds of maintenance disputes concern family matters that are settled in Estonian courts. If it does not point to a serious problem, what does it indicate? When it comes to making a living for someone else, not for underage children, it is still a necessity. In the case of children, the legislator has said that this is the minimum level that is enshrined in the law, but that this minimum may be reduced. And if there is a minimum and a way to reduce it, then it makes sense that there is a debate about it. It seems to me that minors could also rely on this same need-based thesis. I do not tend to propose solutions here, as I said in my presentation, but the question needs to be analysed. The competence of the Ministry of Social Affairs should also be involved here to tell us what the right solution is. But I see that we have reached a point where this issue needs to be seriously discussed at Parliament level.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-07_U30	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-07_U31	Thank you, good manager. Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu, thank you very much for your good and thorough review. My question concerns settlement procedures. What is the current trend in the use of settlement procedures in case law: will their number increase or decrease? Do you see any problems that the legislator should make in order to improve the situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-07_U32	Thank you. The proportion of settlement procedures in criminal proceedings remains high. We have 6 to 7% of the general procedures, and the proportion of the settlement procedures is many times higher. This, of course, also depends a little on the Estonian region. It turns out that Estonia is such a large country that the case law in the northern and southern regions is somewhat different. But if we look at this general trend, we can see that there is probably no country in Europe where the agreement procedure has not been legalised. This is simply due to the fact that, in a situation where more and more acts are considered to be punishable, there is increasing pressure on the criminal process and then there must also be some mechanisms that allow this pressure to be reasonably reduced with regard to public resources. The settlement procedure is one of those mechanisms. If you're asking if there's anything you can do about the regulation of the settlement procedure, I don't see much need for repair. In my opinion, the regulation of Estonia's settlement procedure is one of the most successful in Europe. This may be because, unlike several other countries, we have a court hearing the matter from negotiations between the parties leading to an agreement. It gives the Court such an impartial role in confirming or rejecting the agreement subsequently brought before it. In my opinion, this is a very sensible approach, because it guarantees the impartiality of the court. And the practice has also confirmed that the arrangement procedure is working for us. That's why I wouldn't be in a hurry to fix anything. The work of the legislator has been very successful.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-07_U33	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-07_U34	Mr. President of the Supreme Court! A few weeks ago, former Chancellor of Justice, Indrek Teder, published an article in which he expressed his opinion on one of the things he called the draft. Members of the Riigikogu have the custom of calling proficient idiotis as a bill those things that are dealt with in the Riigikogu as a bill, and not to give others the name of the bill and say 'draft project' or something like that. I have received this text and I understand that it has been prepared by your advisers, by two people. And I suppose it wasn't their private fun, but they did it for their working hours and for the pay they get, or maybe for some kind of support. This is where I conclude that you have given them this task and, essentially, approved it. Is that it?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-07_U35	I don't know what bill you mean. If you mean a draft amendment to the Constitutional Supervision Law, I note that we have established good cooperation with the Ministry of Justice. This concerns not only this particular law on legal proceedings, but also other laws on judicial proceedings. Counsellors from the judicial system are also regularly involved in the drafting of the draft legislation. In my opinion, this is a very justified solution, because it guarantees the exercise of the competences of those who are familiar with court proceedings. I can give another example here: the law on compensation for damage caused by the criminal proceedings approved quite recently by Parliament was primarily prepared for the advisers of the Criminal Chamber of the Supreme Court. This cooperation between the Ministry of Justice, as the central legislative authority and the judicial system, has always worked well in my opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-07_U36	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-07_U37	Thank you, President-in-Office. Honourable President of the Supreme Court! In your presentation, you proposed to consider the possibility of setting up bankruptcy courts with sector-specific judges. Similarly, the idea of setting up courts dealing with matters relating to social or family law has been put forward. You and I both know, and I believe that many more people in this Chamber know that people dealing with victims of close-relationship violence have complained that courtrooms have quite often seen victims being labeled and re-sacrificed. What are your suggestions on how to solve this problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-07_U38	Thank you. First of all, as far as bankruptcy courts are concerned, I myself have so far believed that there are not many special courts in Estonia. In fact, we currently only have administrative courts at first instance as special courts. On other occasions, we have said that specialization in judges is enough. But now I can see clearly that the pressure from the outside is increasing, referring to the specificity of certain things, to seek the creation of courts with some special competence. In my opinion, if you think about it, perhaps the most appropriate way to start this debate is precisely in the area of bankruptcy. Because bankruptcy is an area where law often mixes with the economy. And here the education of classical judges may be limited, it is precisely economic, accounting professionals that should be involved in order to deal with matters properly. Therefore, I think that this area could be started if we were to open a discussion on whether we need special courts or whether we do not need them and, if so, under what conditions. As far as the victim's sacrifice is concerned, that is, of course, a difficult question. I mean, especially when it comes to prosecution in criminal proceedings, the victim is also the source of evidence. The statements of the victim are often a very important source of evidence in court, which also means that an immediate hearing of the victim in the courtroom is inevitable if the exercise of the right of defence is also to be guaranteed. Of course, giving a statement again in the courtroom means that the victim must go through all of this again, which can be mentally exhausting and difficult to bear. But on the other hand, we must also consider that the right of defence must also be guaranteed. The person who is accused must have the opportunity to hear whether the victim's statements are legitimate. So we have to find some kind of reasonable balance. It seems to me that, at least as far as minors are concerned, a number of important steps have already been taken. It is possible to record statements made by a minor victim and to rely later on that recording in the courtroom, or to remove a minor from the courtroom and hear him out of court by means of questions, so that he or she does not have to see the accused again. So the legislator has already taken such steps. But, to sum up, I admit it's not easy, because it requires balancing two very different interests. On the one hand, the victim's interest in resolving a criminal case is at stake, and on the other hand, the right of defence.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-07_U39	Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-07_U40	Thank you, President-in-Office. Mr Priit Pikamäe, Chairman of the Supreme Court, thank you also for your review. My question is the adequacy of the number of administrative courts, which we also discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. During the reform of the courts, administrative courts were gathered in Tallinn and Tartu several years ago. I asked the committee if this was enough, and you said that if you compare with another Europe, perhaps even one administrative court will suffice in Estonia. In answering one question, you said that we are still such a special country and we have our own differences. Is this arrangement still sufficient? Do all applicants have the opportunity to turn to the administrative court wherever they are? Their location could make it more expensive for them. Secondly, do all social groups, including vulnerable groups, have the opportunity to go to court in administrative matters?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-07_U41	Thank you. If you ask which direction the judicial system could be made more efficient in Estonia, I think the judicial network would definitely need to be analysed. If we look at where our courthouses are located, we can see that they are largely in the same places as they were at the time of Estonia's regaining independence. As far as the courts are concerned, we have made minimal changes, with a few dubious courthouses closed, but, broadly speaking, the judicial network has remained the same as it was in 1991 and before. On the other hand, we must recognise that there have been major changes in Estonia's demographic situation. The population has been relocated, people no longer live where they used to live, urbanisation, urban sprawl, concentration of people around Tallinn. Therefore, the whole reform of the judiciary must certainly be analysed in the near future. As far as administrative courts are concerned, this system has already been reformed once. Two administrative courts have been established, one in Tallinn, the other in Tartu. It seems to me that this is quite enough now, all the more so since the principle of investigation still applies in the administrative court. If you ask whether it is possible for everyone to obtain reasonable assistance from the administrative court, the procedure is specifically organised in such a way as to support the rights of the individual as best possible. I don't think there's a problem here. However, in the future, an analysis of the same general judicial network will also have to answer the question of whether the current location of administrative courts is optimal or not.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-07_U42	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-07_U43	Court cases! Kaur Kender was originally absent from crime formation and jurisdiction. Aivar Soop, there was no crime event. Nikolayev, Kärdla, did not even open a black box for eight years. Fourth: During the Savisaar process, the prosecutor's office repeatedly publishes surveillance material in the press. Fifthly, in the case of the land exchange process, half-way qualifications are changed, with the former circumstances, i.e. four years in a row, being mistreated. Sixth: the land change process had a clear political character, which I have proved. I think that's enough. Here's the question. I do not see the slightest criticism of the prosecutor's office in the judgments, not a single word of criticism. Worse still, if we try to get the prosecutor's office to work or submit to the Estonian legal order in any way, the Supreme Court, together with the prosecutor's office, has taken up a ring defence against the normal course of justice and democratisation. Why are you in this ring defence for the defense of the prosecutor's office and against the legal system?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-07_U44	Thank you for this question. I can only confirm that the judicial system is certainly not in ring defence, and certainly the judicial system is in no way with the prosecutor's office, how to say it now, on the same side. The role of the judicial system is to critically assess the activities of the prosecutor's office. And I think the same solutions that you referred to, and which resulted, among other things, in acquittal, are very clear about this.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-07_U45	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-07_U46	Thank you. The previous Riigikogu passed the Cohabitation Act, the entry into force of which was stipulated in the Act that it would enter into force with the adoption of implementing acts. The current Riigikogu rejected them, it was and is the will of the Riigikogu. Two days ago, however, you claimed that it was the will of the Riigikogu that the Cohabitation Act would enter into force regardless of whether implementing legislation was adopted or not, and that the Riigikogu itself had decoupled the law from the adoption of implementing legislation. That's not true. Is this approach not an example of bias, judicial activism and misinterpretation of the will of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-07_U47	Thank you for this question. I simply point out that, as you may have noticed, this was the resolution of the Constitutional Review College of the Supreme Court. This resolution of the Constitutional Review College also sets out in detail the reasons why the formation of the Court took such a position. I know, of course, that's the rule, that someone who doesn't like a court settlement will never agree to a statement of reasons. They will inevitably go hand in hand, but I would nevertheless recommend that these arguments be reviewed in the court settlement. It sets out a scheme of arguments as to why the Court reached such a conclusion. However, I would like to make another small addition: I would point out that even before this resolution of the Constitutional Review College of the Supreme Court, the Estonian Lawyership had come to the wider understanding that this is a valid law. Just two examples. Even before this solution, notaries had come to the belief that the law was in force and had to be implemented. Secondly, even before this decision, the State Gazette had also indicated that it was a law that had entered into force. So it is not right to say that this is only a unilateral position of the judiciary. The conclusion that this law applies is rather, I would say, the general position of the legal public. This view has also been reached by other lawyers practicing in Estonia, regardless of court decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-07_U48	Raivo Time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-07_U49	Thank you, Mr President. Dear President of the Supreme Court! Here, sometimes, it is not sometimes, but lately quite actively, that the whole process has been over-excessed, especially in criminal proceedings, starting from the beginning of the procedure to the end of the trial. This has been done in particular in cases where something has attracted greater public attention. In this way, our colleagues have put forward certain legislative proposals to start cutting things off somewhere in order to minimise procedural time. Often, court proceedings have also been very long. Do you think that judges have sufficient resources in the toolbox to optimise the length of the court proceedings, or that there is also a need for some help from the legislator?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-07_U50	Thank you for that question. The duration of judicial proceedings, especially in criminal cases, is always a matter that needs to be critically analysed. If we look at the court proceedings, I have no record of the pre-trial proceedings, which I do not have the authority to comment on, we see that we still have the vast majority of things to be settled in short-term proceedings, in simple procedures, and their duration in court does not allow us to talk about excessive time. For example, on average, the duration of the short procedure and the settlement procedure will not exceed one month from the time when the case arrives in court. It's a clear indication that there's probably no need to fix anything here. However, general procedures are obviously problematic. In their case, it usually comes down to the question of when the court can do the next thing. We already have several years in force, at the request of the legislator, of the principle of the continuity of the trial in criminal proceedings, according to which the court may not begin to discuss the next case until it has completed the previous one. This means that there will be a queue in the case of general procedural matters in court, waiting for the previous case to be resolved, then the judge will take the next step. It is also a consequence of the fact that a number of cases of high public interest will only be brought to the attention of the public by 2019. It could therefore be considered whether the principle of continuity in this form is essential. On the other hand, we also have to take into account, of course, that if we abandon the principle of continuity, we can come to a situation where we do not win at all at the speed of resolving the case, because the court is going to solve several matters in parallel, which means that the appointment of sittings becomes cyclical, because in the meantime, there is another matter to be discussed. The definite advantage of the current system is that it allows one thing to be dealt with consistently, without missing other things. Of course, it must also be borne in mind that the duration of the proceedings and the place in which they are to be held do not necessarily depend on the court. The court cannot discuss the matter alone. Procedural parties are also needed to discuss the matter. And the calendars of the parties to proceedings are often very full, so the big question in itself is how to find a suitable time for the proceedings. It is just that in Estonia the parties to the proceedings are very burdened. But once again, if something is analysed at the level of the legislator, perhaps the operation of the principle of continuity and the question of whether it should suddenly be improved at some point.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-07_U51	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-07_U52	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! I've had some answers to the last few questions and a few thoughts while listening to your performance. You assured me that the courts were governed by the law. Indeed, we are taking this law of partnership. The law was published in the Official Journal of the State and it is probably a sign that such a law has passed through the Riigikogu. But still those acts without which the law doesn't apply. After all, the legislator's will was that the law would not apply as long as there were no acts. How can the courts still ignore this and find their own interpretations? There are obviously different interpretations among lawyers, not only those who are in favour of homosexuality, but also those who are not. However, the legislator's will was that, until there were no implementing acts, there was no law. I don't think this publication is a sign that the law is in force. It's just like information that such a law has passed through the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-07_U53	Thank you for this question, but I believe I have already answered that question. I explained why, at least, the Supreme Court, the Constitutional Review College, took the view that this law had entered into force, although no implementing acts have been introduced. These reasons are set out in the Supreme Court ruling. There has been a long comparison of legislative practice and an overview of how the legislator has approached this issue in the past. Only one example: in the case of the Penal Code, the implementing provision contained a single law: the law enters into force in accordance with and at the time prescribed by the Implementing Act. Which meant he had to be in a vacatio legis situation for so long until the law of implementation told him when he would be put into effect. Here the legislator had decided otherwise. So I suggest, however, that you read the judgment in which those grounds are set out.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-07_U54	Priit Pikamäe, Chairman of the Supreme Court, the members of the Riigikogu have no further questions for you. I thank the members of the Riigikogu for asking questions and for answering you! I'm opening negotiations. Please join Martin Helme as representative of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-07_U55	Dear Deputy Speaker! Dear President of the Supreme Court! Ladies and gentlemen, The questions would be how many, but unfortunately, we can only ask one question. That way, I don't know how, what to do with this talk. We listened to the President of the Supreme Court who, as he literally said, everything is fine in Estonian courts. The Estonian judicial system is impeccable, nothing needs to be changed when it comes to taking office, getting out of office, not in proceedings, not in settlement procedures, everything is bueno, kosher! I know not only about me, but also about a number of members of our other political groups are contacted almost every day by people who bring us absurd and appalling concrete examples of how Estonian courts violate the law, how the Estonian prosecutor's office violates the law, how the procedure itself is a punishment, how they are violated and vexed. Yeah, we got fired by a judge. For what? For scolding someone for marrying a foreigner or an immigrant. He was fired to enforce the dogmas of political correctness, not because he did something else wrong. But how else do we get the judges out of office? You can't, because the judges are watching over themselves. Yes, politicians may also discuss the decisions of the Supreme Court, but this debate, as we have heard, should still be of an academic nature, of a legal nature. However, how are we academically discussing the Supreme Court's decision, which enforced the Cohabitation Act in violation of the Cohabitation Act, based on a completely obvious interpretation of the Cohabitation Act from the ceiling? Let us read this Supreme Court ruling on this matter! I'm sorry, it's a bullshit with a legal jargon. That's fictional! And this is not just a system of Estonian courts. We have decisions of the circuit court based on Swedish or American laws to help us in heaven! Oh, my God! Is it also the will of the Estonian Supreme Court that we apply Swedish laws selectively? So if we say this system is rotten, they say you're Stalinists. The member of the Supreme Court said that we long for Soviet time. I really don't know where the Estonian Gulags are and who is organising the chuckle in Estonia, but I do know that we have no democratic control over the judicial system and, by the way, of the prosecutor's office. There is also no democratic control over the prosecutor's office! And when our party says that we want to restore democratic control, they will come and tell us that the representatives of the tsunami and the tsunami mouthpieces in the ERR and elsewhere in the mainstream media are saying that we are Stalinists. Total cafeness is the name of this thing! We see every day how courts deal with pure political orders. Igor Gräzin has already drawn attention to several cases. I would like to remind you once again that the Court also ruled purely politically on the question of the European stabilisation mechanism that Estonian taxpayers' money could pay debts from other countries. In several cases, the courts have conducted a pure policy in connection with the Cohabitation Act, and there are other examples. This system actually tells us what? In essence, he is telling us that we are rolling towards a constitutional crisis. We have hundreds of thousands of citizens who go to vote and choose one or another for a political agenda, for one or another for a political promise. And then three judges will come to the district court and a few judges will come to the Supreme Court and say that all of this will cost nothing. Your opinions, your convictions, your choices don't cost anything, we decided differently! You may not be satisfied, and we can discuss it academically, but that is all kaput! We put our foot down and said it was. It is not democracy, it is not independence! This is an abuse of power, a brutal violation of the principle of separation of powers. And you can't be satisfied with that, you can't accept it, because at some point we're going to get into a situation where... I'll bring you a parallel from history. American President Andrew Jackson, who was such a great crowd man in the 1830s, also broke lances with the judiciary. It's an old war that's being waged here. The Supreme Court in America also made some clear political decision, which Jackson said, well, the Supreme Court made its decision, go now and enforce it. And I say in the same way that if the judges, the Supreme Court and the District Courts start making political decisions, go ahead and enforce them! This paper doesn't cost anything, it goes into the trash. It is simply a decision that is a political statement of some kind. Go and enforce it when you're so tough that you work for Parliament and decide for the government! Go and enforce it! But where does that lead us to in our constitutional order? How does this coincide with the rule of law? You can't go on like this! We want to reform this system. We want it to become democratically controlled. The courts do not live on any of their planets, but must submit to the will of Estonian citizens. There have to be rules for that, we understand. By the way, in a situation where the courts deal with voluntarism and maladministration, we stand for these rules. There must be a structure for this that we all understand. But in such a way that the judges themselves decide which of them has behaved well or badly, and in the case of the prosecutor's office, we cannot proceed in exactly the same way. This is how we break up our legal order, break down our constitutional system, and essentially end up in some banana republic where some are more equal to the law than others. It's enough that you have a high office, and you're subject to the same rules, but most importantly, if you're saying the wrong thing, you're subject to different rules. We can't go on like this. Something needs to be changed, and our party will take steps to change it. Our party is going to change this, to change the constitution with the will of the people to ask for the support of the people in a referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-07_U56	Jüri Adams, please, on behalf of the Free Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-07_U57	Mr President of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Free Party Group gave me the opportunity to present a group and the relatively free hand in what I am saying. It is quite difficult to speak when you have just heard the speech of one of the most populist and energetic participants in the election campaign, one of the best speakers of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. I'm trying to act like I didn't hear it and talk about the subject in substance, but you have to start with the same thing. You see, the background is certainly that the EKRE recently called for a reform of justice. The idea of their justice reform includes different elements. There are elements that are completely impossible and impossible to accomplish, there are elements that can only be explained by the fact that no one has liked a particular judgment or part of a judgment, and there are also elements that completely coincide with what the President of the Supreme Court said here. So on some issues, the question of individual complaints, Mr President of the Supreme Court, can be mentioned as an example, I have the feeling that the EKRE is your greatest ally despite this attack. Mr Madison used a word like 'inexplicable' in his question. I was wondering if the word 'inexplicable' in the debate on an item on the agenda where we are talking about the work of the courts was at all usable. I don't think it's usable. After all, any living system is one that requires at least constant adjustment in the course of life, and this need for adjustment is not generally regarded as a system defect. That's the only way the system can work. I think the word 'court system' is also very often used in a quite wrong sense. What does that word mean? I do not think that if anyone does not like a particular judgment or the action of a judge, it does not suggest that the system is wrong. The system depends on which types of courts exist, which levels of courts exist, which different procedures exist. In recent years, we have had a positive introduction of urgent procedures. It has produced quite good results and it has certainly given judges and courts a lot of time to deal with things that are not dealt with in urgent proceedings. And now we come to one important question: namely, the report by the President of the Supreme Court included aggregated statistics. These statistics, in my opinion, are a problem. Statistics may be entirely correct and in full accordance with the methods of measuring which the courts and the Supreme Court themselves use, but I do not think it is appropriate to submit them to Parliament. And it's basically not okay because the data is based on a system of certain units, but the automatic addition of these units, without paying attention to what is the content of the units, is not good. If, for example, there is a complex criminal or civil matter and there are still a dozen different complaints in the process of resolving it, it is not 11 cases from a politician's point of view, but only one. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-07_U58	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-07_U59	I think that if, next year, the statistics could be better explained for us, we would probably see clearly that the desire for processation and the need for a trial in Estonian society has been constantly declining over the last 20 years. And that's positive. If we could see these substantial changes in numbers, we could probably get another picture. When I asked questions to the rapporteur, Mr Pikamägi, I raised the subject of a draft prepared by the Supreme Court. Its content is the establishment of the possibility of making individual complaints under the constitutional supervision. This problem was also discussed in the Constitutional Assembly and it was understood that there should be no possibility that the courts will discuss theoretical matters separately from specific problems in society. We're in the danger that this is where we're going. In particular, our first President of the Supreme Court, Rait Maruste, has worked in this direction for at least 25 years. Now it seems that he has never been as close to his goals as he is now. One more question I would like to mention is that we will soon be back on the agenda to supplement the Supreme Court with new members. You see, Mr Pikamäe is the first President of the Supreme Court of the period of independence, who has prior experience of practical judgment. All previous heads of Supreme Court have been those who had not made any judgments before taking up this post, not one second of their work as judges. At the moment, the question is that people who have not been judges will prevail in the Supreme Court. I call on Mr Pikamäed to strike some sort of balance, so that there will also be practitioners. Otherwise, serious problems will arise in the case of Supreme Court decisions, which I do not have time to describe right now. In any case, a balance on this issue would be necessary in the future. I'm done with that. That's all I could say in that time. Of course it would be more. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-07_U60	On behalf of the Group of the Hanno Pevkur Reform Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-07_U61	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable President of the Supreme Court! Ladies and gentlemen, It is possible to talk about the trial for a very long time and very much. The fact that today the President of the Supreme Court chose for us the concerns of civil courts, especially the matters of maintenance, can be understood. The property of maintenance accounts for 10% of all civil matters in Estonian courts and this is a considerable burden. With an even greater proportion, it is only normal debt collection: if one person owes one person to another, these claims represent a third of civil cases. But let's put another number here: if I read the statistics correctly, about 60,000 applications will be submitted in Estonia a year for all types of courts. So these are administrative cases, misdemeanor cases, civil cases and criminal cases. That's a pretty crazy amount of, uh, 60000 applications a year! Share it over the days, and we understand that the people of Estonia actually like to go to court. If we add more labour disputes, which are thousands, then it is clear that the people of Estonia have quite a lot of desire to process. On the other hand, when I look at what the process framework has gone out of this hall, there is nothing to say about what the President of the Supreme Court drew attention to, it is quite a serious fact. We have made our procedures very difficult. At the beginning of the 1990s, when civil proceedings became regulated, there were 364 articles in that law, currently 759. When the regulation of the administrative court was established in the Estonian legal order, there were 75 sections of the Act in this hall. 75 sections went out! There are 315, or almost five times more, now. There were about the same number of paragraphs in criminal proceedings as those in civil proceedings: 363. To date, the Code of Criminal Procedure also contains more than 500 paragraphs: 509. This actually shows that, as a result of both the executive and our own actions, process rules have been created, which have become very complex. And then we want to talk about our people having to be able to defend themselves in court, basically. Yes, in certain situations a lawyer is required to be represented, but basically, in administrative matters and also in civil matters, it is primarily a prerequisite for a person to have his own affairs taken care of. However, in administrative matters, when it comes to disputes with the state or local government, we have increased the number of rules almost five times. I am deeply convinced that the rules of the process must be simpler. A person must understand them and the court must have greater discretion to decide. You don't have to tell me everything! You don't have to tell the parole officer! You don't have to tell the police how much he can make a fine, and you don't have to tell the police what to do. This freedom of decision, i.e. the right of discretion of the administration of administrative law taught to lawyers, I dare to give to Estonian judges and practitioners. But this requires a fundamental change of attitude, both at the level of executive power and here in the Riigikogu. Now the other side: what can we do to improve this process? Someone might come in here and say we're doing justice reform. But what does that really mean? I say, as my colleague Adams said, that we actually change it all the time. And it's natural that we change it all the time. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-07_U62	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-07_U63	This same increase in the number of paragraphs shows that we have always changed the rules of the process. However, in order to get judges to deal with the most necessary above all, I believe that such so-called "premises" or specialised courts are needed. We have a labour dispute committee. As an interesting matter of thought, the Supreme Court could be asked whether the existence of a labour dispute committee is compatible with the Constitution. The Labour Dispute Commission understands the law, but is not part of the court. Perhaps we could create a labour court, say we would rename a labour dispute committee? However, the Labour Dispute Committee is a good example of how the burden is removed from the court: the percentage of appeal in labour disputes is very small, i.e. the parties generally agree with the decision of the Labour Dispute Committee. It is exactly the same with maintenance matters: there could be a separate court which is simpler, where there is an urgent procedure, or where there is a procedure without an action, just as the President of the Supreme Court went out here. Things could actually be solved a lot faster. That's the job we're supposed to be doing in this hall. This is the objective that we should really be directing the executive: the resolution of maintenance, bankruptcy and labour disputes should be in some kind of simpler form. With regard to business relations, we know that as a member of Professor Gräzin's arbitration, it can be confirmed that companies can agree with each other on arbitration. And the rules of arbitration are very short: basically, two parties have been granted the right to appeal to arbitration and arbitration makes a decision. Why, however, have we written our code of civil procedure in the 800-paragrave? One owes the other and asks for the debt to be recognised, but in the law we have all sorts of complicated concepts for ordinary people, such as 'the other' and everything else. This report that we have heard today should make us all think first and foremost about how to make the process easier, easier for people to understand, whether it is a criminal, civil or administrative procedure, and how to remove any portion of these 60000 things. If our judges could specialize, they'd make better-quality decisions, and we shouldn't be listening to this remote talk about everything being rotten. Actually, it's not rotten. In fact, the Estonian judicial system works. After all, everything starts with people. If the heart is in the right place, if education and education are enough to make fair decisions, then surely decisions are fair. Finally, the judicial system will hopefully also benefit if the judges' competitions become more intense. As a member of the Supreme Court, I understand there were six candidates last time. This will only make the Estonian judicial system richer and better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-07_U64	Please, Eiki Nestor as representative of the Social Democratic Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-07_U65	Honourable Vice President! Honourable President of the Supreme Court! Ladies and gentlemen, It is kind of creepy that in 2018 the Riigikogu of the Estonian Democratic Republic will have to come to the Speaker's Office and defend the independence of the judiciary and explain what separation of powers is. In fact, we've seen these signs here a long time ago. For example, when individual judges and candidates were confirmed before us and we voted on them, it was not attempted to make it clear how competent a person is as a judge, but what his worldview is, and it was said to his face that your worldview is wrong and we will not vote for you. It was already ugly. Later, the heads of the judges flew from this speaker's office, and if this head taker himself does not wish to apologize to the Estonian judges, then at least the voters of this party could be so dignified that someone would apologize to the judges. That's not the way to treat a judicial authority. And now we're seeing it again today. Good friends who say that! I don't care if it's Stalinism, Communism, Fascism or whatever, but if the politicians decide what the judges decide, the name of this thing is 'dictary' of any kind and by whom. I believe that society understands that the Estonian state is also standing with an independent judicial authority, and independent judicial authority in this sense really works according to Murphy's law, as the President of the Supreme Court told us here. That is why I also think that we do not need to be excused for my expression! The second chamber for Parliament. For the simple reason that I think the current constitutional oversight system is very sensible, working and good. The fact that the President has the right not to declare laws and, if necessary, to argue in the Supreme Court is correct. The fact that the Chancellor of Justice has the right to make corrections is also correct. We do not need a situation where every even more sensitive law adopted in the Riigikogu must pass through another Chamber and perhaps the individual appeal of the Supreme Court. I don't see the need. After all, the current system also works perfectly normally, and the fact that we have relatively few of these disputes shows that the system is good. I understand that, in many ways, the cause of this resentment is the existence of several laws. As the person who voted in favour of the Cohabitation Act in the previous Riigikogu, I can tell you for certain that I knew that this law would enter into force. I can also assure you that I was ashamed that we were unable to adopt the law on implementation. And I realized that after that, the courts would be burdened with problems with the implementation of this law. And I am still ashamed that the Riigikogu is unable to adopt this law of implementation, but the law itself has entered into force. And now it's completely inappropriate to upset the judiciary. If you're upset with someone, you'll be upset with those who voted for this law, not with judges who are forced to make difficult decisions because of the lack of implementing legislation. They do it in a very reasonable way. So, honourable troublemakers, it was all in advance known to those who voted in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-07_U66	On behalf of the Group of the Mart Nutt Isamaa and Res Publica Alliance.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-07_U67	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I may be addressing this issue more philosophically than from the point of view of practical justice and judicial institutions, and I will perhaps continue on a subject that was started by my colleague, Jüri Adams. I would title my approach as follows: 'From the power of judgment and its relation to the power of the people'. So I would talk more about the constitutional level of the relationship between judicial power and popular power, and I would go out of Estonia a little bit, I would also look at the international level. First of all, the Estonian judicial system is based on the continental European practices, complies with the principles of a democratic state and has generally succeeded. There is, in my opinion, nothing to say about this. Secondly, our judicial system is independent of other powers. Nor is it, I think, a problem in Estonia, but the question may be the opposite. I am not saying how independent our courts are or are not, but I am asking: how independent should other branches of power be, especially the legislative, executive power of the judiciary? How can we understand this question? I would put it this way: does the judiciary need to have the right to take over, even partially, the functions of legislative and executive powers? If so, can we talk about the separation of powers? The three-stage judicial system, as it applies in Estonia, and, as is generally the case in all democratic countries, generally ensures a fair trial. However, there is no debate on how lower courts should be managed. The independence of the judiciary also requires the independence of different levels of court. If this is not the case, the right of appeal becomes fiction. However, if the administration of lower courts is the responsibility of the Supreme Court, the question arises as to whether the lower courts are independent or whether they are pendants of the Supreme Court. Whether the executive power is appropriate to administer lower-ranking courts is of course questionable, although the independence of the judiciary is primarily about independence in decision-making. It is possible that an independent institution would be the best solution for this purpose. There have been quite a number of ideas for reform of the judiciary over the last 25 years. First of all, the Constitutional Court, which has been much talked about and even once initiated an amendment to the Constitution on this subject. Next, the individual appeal to the Supreme Court, the issue of the electrability and life-longness of judges, which is currently being discussed by the EKRE, but which has actually been spoken about quite a lot since the beginning of the 1990s. All these issues need a thorough discourse, and there is no time for this at the moment, but I would point out, in general terms, that these plans pose risks to the politicisation of both the judiciary and the judges. The Soviet Union used the optionality of the judges as an opportunity to subjugate the power of justice to party leadership. However, the judge is not independent in his decisions if he has to like the voters in a democratic society as well. I would also touch on the case law of the Supreme Court a little more widely than in Estonia alone. It is a question of justice and politics: which one is the highest court, the instrument of justice or politics? I'm gonna ask for a little extra time!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-07_U68	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-07_U69	Thank you. Let's see the U.S. Supreme Court first. The President will appoint a U.S. Supreme Judge for life. However, there is a debate in the country, which is the president who is calling this person. Somehow it's considered very important in America. If the Supreme Court only judges justice, it shouldn't matter, but it does. And that refers to the political role of the Supreme Court. The Constitutional Court has a clear role to play in some countries as part of state power, but in some countries it has been copied, in some ways even an artificial formation that does not relate to the rest of the state order and has become essentially the upper chamber of the Parliament, a political filter of corporate democratic decisions, also allowing a sinecurity for senior lawyers who are thereby guaranteed a relatively high old-age pension. Does Estonia need such a collection? I join the previous speaker, Eiki Nestor, in the opinion that I do not think so. The right of precedent is part of the US legal system; it is rather imported into continental Europe. In the event of a coincidence of bad circumstances, this creates the primacy of the judiciary over the legislative power, since the judicial authority is thus essentially taking over the role of legislator. If in Estonia the dream is realized that the judiciary will acquire the right to fill in the loopholes in the laws that have not been passed in the Riigikogu, it has been said from time to time that the Riigikogu violates the Constitution, if it does not adopt any law, then my assessment of this situation is harsh: then we have replaced democracy with the dictatorship of the court. Finally, in a recent case, Harju County Court closed the Savisaar case, referring to the accused's ill health. I am not commenting on this decision, but on the statement made by the court that the order of the county court is not subject to appeal. In the rule of law, such a situation is strange when a decision of a lower court, whatever it is, is not subject to appeal. Is this a hole in the law, as is highlighted from time to time? There is a lot of talk in the press about loopholes, but there is no less talk about overregulation. So let's write several more pages on additional regulations, and in this context we are complaining about overregulation! If such a path is chosen, then congratulations on what I do! It would be useful for the Estonian state to have common sense in addition to norms and regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-07_U70	There are no more calls. Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting of the 17th working week of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu is closed. Good day to you all! I would like to remind you once again that Jüri Adams is calling a meeting of the founding group of the support group of the Church of Tartu. Thank you. Closure of the sitting at 11.40 a.m.
