ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-17_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. We have friendly, warm and even warmer relations with one country, so it is a great honour to welcome the spy of the Georgian Parliament, his Excellency, Mr Irakli Kobakhidze, and the delegation accompanying him. [[Let's hear it.]] Now, however, we can pass on drafts and enquiries. Siret Eagle-Repinski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-17_U2	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! On behalf of the problem committee on resolving the population crisis, I am pleased to hand over to you the draft decision of the Riigikogu 'Principles of National Policy until 2035'. Following the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act and the decision of 17 November on the resolution of the population crisis of the Riigikogu's Problem Committee, the committee submits a draft of the Riigikogu's decision 'Principals of Public Policy until 2035' to the Riigikogu's proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-17_U3	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-17_U4	Mr. Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Honourable guests! At the end of last week, unexpected news came about that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has abandoned the design and design of Tallinn's ring railway or bypass railway. That sounded quite unexpected, as the need for it has been talked about for a very long time. There has been talk of the need to take dangerous cargo out of the city centre of Tallinn and connect the railway to the eastern direction of Paldiski, so that the cargo does not pass through the city centre of Tallinn. The fact that these dangerous goods have remained considerably quieter is likely to be largely due to a reduction in the volume of goods. But in us, this appeal by the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Mrs Samson, to the Harjumaa Municipalities Association, raises a number of questions that do not exist or come up with such a thing. These relate to the transport of goods and their volumes, dangerous transport and the fact that they are still passing through the city centre of Tallinn, of course also the feasibility of planning. Perhaps we cannot imagine how all this will be done after the design of Rail Baltic. The heirs, the majority of whom are members of the Estonian Free Party, appreciate the situation in such a way that this bypass railway may be much more necessary to us than Rail Baltic. But we get the impression that together planning is not counted at all. Consequently, we have a number of questions for the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-17_U5	This is an inquiry. Unbelievable, but true. Representative of the Government of the Republic Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-17_U6	Honourable Chairman! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching two draft laws today. First, the draft law amending the Port Act. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by Kadri Simson, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, when the bill is being processed. Secondly, the draft law supplementing the citizens' law and other laws of the European Union. The Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of the Interior, Katri Raik, when this bill is being processed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-17_U7	Thank you. I have adopted three drafts and one inquiry. Under the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, we go with them. Incoming check, please! 80 members of the Riigikogu are in plenary. Adoption of the agenda. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-17_U8	Thank you, Mr President. We have had a habit here before that the Bureau's decisions or some kind of announcements will be read before the agenda is adopted. This isn't happening lately. My question to the board, however, concerns the appointment of members of the Riigikogu to committees. The Free Party had to wait a whole month for its place in ELAK, which is too much. I had another question about another case. What happens if a member of the Riigikogu is not left in the committee he would like to belong to? Where does the Board of the Riigikogu even take the fact that two non-attached members must not belong to the same committee at the same time?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-17_U9	Section of the Home and Working Procedures Act, which states that representation in committees must be proportionate. I don't think this debate is about the agenda right now. Right? We can find another time and a form to talk about it. But this starting point has been the Law on Home and Rules of Procedure. It is not possible to create a situation in which four non-attached Members are all going to join the same committee. You see what happens then. If Kallik's Hatter has a proposal or a question about the agenda, I'll ask you if I can continue the same debate, I'll finish that. The Hatter's on the agenda, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-17_U10	No, I still have a question about the organisation of our hall. If it is possible in the Chamber to empower political groups to speak on behalf of the political group, why is it not analogously possible to do so in committees so that the political groups can authorise the political group to speak on behalf of the political group?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-17_U11	If anyone wishes to do so, please contact the board. So far, no one wanted it. I shall vote on the agenda for the 12th working week of the VIIIth plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. There are 81 members in favour of the draft agenda, no one against, with one abstention. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-17_U12	Our agenda first includes an inquiry by Jaak Madison, Mart Helme, Raivo Põldaru, Arno Bridge, Henn Põlluaas, Uno Kaskpeit, Peeter Ernits and Martin Helme. Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-17_U13	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Christmas is coming. But before Christmas, we will hear the answers of Minister Riina Sikkut to the inquiry, which has been submitted on 8 November, on the subject of the situation of rare pharmacies. The inquiry has been prepared by eight members of the Riigikogu from the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. On 29 October, 55 branch pharmacies closed their doors for half a day, pointing out that they must be closed as of 9 June in accordance with the current pharmaceutical law. The explanatory memorandum to the draft law amending the Pharmaceutical Act and the Health Services Organisation Act, which was dealt with in 2014, explicitly states: 'The branch pharmacies operating in the larger cities so far will be given a sufficient transitional period (5 years) during which opportunities will be found to bring their activities into line with the requirements of the General Pharmacies. " According to the Association of Estonian Pharmacies, the Ministry of Social Affairs has repeatedly pointed out that the Pharmacies Act has not allowed pharmacists to transform Pharmacies into general pharmacies. So far, no initiative has come from the Ministry of Social Affairs to solve this problem. For this very serious question, in turn, we have asked six questions. First, the current law has not allowed wholesalers to transform branch pharmacies into general pharmacies for a period of five years, as indicated in the explanatory memorandum to the above-mentioned draft law. How many branch pharmacies belonging to wholesalers have been able to turn into a general pharmacy after legislative changes? Secondly, for what reasons has the Ministry of Social Affairs refused to amend the law at the time? Thirdly, do you not think that reducing access to medicines is a game of human health? Fourthly, has the Ministry ordered or prepared an analysis of the availability of pharmacy services in cities following the closure of branch pharmacies? Fifthly, how do local authorities who organise public transport view the closure of branch pharmacies, and how do older and disabled organisations view the closure? And last question: what measures has the Ministry planned to take to alleviate the problem in Ida-Virumaa, where 17 pharmacies are to be closed? For example, the district of Kohtla-Järve Valley, where the nearest pharmacy is ten kilometres away, is listed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-17_U14	Riina Sikkut, Minister of Health and Labour, responds to the inquiry. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-17_U15	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I respond to Question No 454 of 8 November. Following this inquiry, the Riigikogu adopted amendments to the Pharmaceutical Act last week, which, among other things, postpones the restructuring of branch pharmacies operating in larger cities until 1 April 2020. Now to the question. Question one. In the last five years, the current law has not allowed wholesalers to transform branch pharmacies into general pharmacies, how much has been done since 2014? How many of these branch pharmacies have been transformed into general pharmacies? In terms of numbers, since 2014, five branch pharmacies were redesigned prior to the entry into force of the pharmacist property requirement, in nine cases the branch pharmacy was wound up and the economic activities of the general pharmacy were transferred to the same place. Two general pharmacies meeting the requirements of the pharmacist's property have also started to provide pharmacy services at two branches of pharmacy. Haruapteek cannot exist independently; it exists with the main pharmacy, which is the general pharmacy. The changes made are often due to a change in the location of the main pharmacy, for example, to the location of the branch pharmacy, if this has been economically reasonable. Although the reorganisation of branch pharmacies' activities in larger settlements has come at the same time as the reform of pharmacy property, the objectives of these changes are actually different. Therefore, it does not make sense, in essence, to draw the dates on the same line either. The aim of the closure of branch pharmacies in cities is to organise the pharmacy market and eliminate unequal competition in the provision of pharmacy services in densely populated areas. Haruapteek is a pharmacy with reduced qualifications in terms of premises and staff, and therefore the maintenance of a branch pharmacy can only be justified in order to ensure better access to medicines in rural areas and smaller towns, but not in larger cities where there are already a large number of pharmacies. In 2014 the Riigikogu was also considered in the process of dealing with the Drug Act that the closure of branch pharmacies in densely populated areas is unlikely to result in all current owners bringing their branch pharmacies into line with the requirements of the general pharmacy, and some of the branch pharmacies will be discontinued. As of 1 November of this year, there are 489 pharmacies in Estonia, 345 main pharmacies and 144 branch pharmacies. And 80 out of 144 branch pharmacies are located in a country or city with fewer than 4,000 inhabitants, so they would not have been affected by the closure in summer 2019 or on 1 April 2020. As of 1 November, 64 branch pharmacies do not meet the requirements resulting from amendments to the Pharmaceutical Act, so these are affected by the reorganisation of the activities of the branch pharmacies. These include pharmacies belonging to pharmacists as well as pharmacies related to a wholesaler. In some of the current locations of the branch pharmacy, it is possible to bring the pharmacy's activities into line with the requirements of the general pharmacy, for example to increase the surface area, so it is possible to apply for authorisation to continue providing services in the same place as a general pharmacy. However, the reorganisation of a branch pharmacy into a general pharmacy is not possible for current licence holders who do not meet the requirement of a pharmacist's licence or who are related to a pharmaceutical manufacturer or a wholesaler of the medicinal product. The latter will be able to continue to provide pharmacy services on the basis of existing licences, now until 1 April 2020, but in the case of branch pharmacies, both pharmacists and other pharmacists who do not meet the pharmacy's ownership requirements will have to restructure their activities. The second question: 'For what reasons has the Ministry of Social Affairs refused to amend the law at the time? ' At the end of 2013, after the Supreme Court's decision, changes concerning the pharmacy market began with the Riigikogu. As a law, they're to be enforced. The Ministry of Social Affairs is clearly of the opinion that the five-year transitional period granted to undertakings is sufficient and that during this period opportunities can be found to bring their activities into line with the requirements of the Pharmaceutical Act. Concerns related to the implementation of the Pharmacy Reform have been introduced by the Ministry of Social Affairs and discussed at the joint session of the Social Affairs Committee and the Legal Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu. The joint session also concluded that the amendment to the pharmaceutical law was in force and was awaiting implementation. Since the Riigikogu found, on 12 December, that the amendment to the legislation concerning the reorganisation of branch pharmacies must be enforced at the same time as the restrictions on the ownership of pharmacies, that is the decision of the Parliament. The question is whether this decision was made with sufficient impact assessment, but it is difficult for me to say it. Question 3: 'Do you not think that reducing access to medicines is a game of human health? " Of course, it is the duty of the state to protect people's health and to ensure access to medicines for people is a vital part of maintaining health. The pharmacy service is part of a primary health care service that must be accessible to everyone and close to home. The pharmacy must also provide high-quality advice and assistance rather than maximise the commercial interests or profits of third parties. The task of the state is, of course, to ensure the availability of the pharmacy service. In 2014 the Riigikogu was also of the opinion during the proceedings of the Amendment Act on Medicines and Health Services that the branch pharmacy is a pharmacy with reduced qualifications in terms of premises and professional staff. Reduced requirements are justified only in rural areas and smaller cities, but not in larger cities. This is all the more so since the restrictions on the establishment of the pharmacy have been lifted, especially in larger cities, at the risk of creating new service facilities at the least cost. This, in turn, would undermine the livelihood of general pharmacies which meet normal requirements and would undermine the quality of service. Thus, the closure of branch pharmacies in cities with more than 4 000 inhabitants does not in any way undermine the availability of the service; rather, it reduces the risk of general pharmacies becoming too busy to cope with, as well as of falling quality. The same conclusion has been reached in the analysis carried out in previous years, where it is clear that the number of pharmacies needs to decrease in order to ensure the sustainability of the pharmacy sector. The average population per pharmacy should be at least over 4,000 people. As of the beginning of this year, there is one pharmacy in Estonia for 2,665 people. There is one pharmacy in Europe for 7,000 people. As a result, there is already a problem that there are not enough pharmacists and pharmacists to provide high-quality pharmacy services. The geographical availability of the pharmacy service in Estonia as a whole is very good, 99% of the population has the nearest pharmacy up to 15 minutes' drive away, the availability of medicines in cities is guaranteed and the WHO estimates that there is even an oversupply. Indeed, we have a situation where two or three pharmacies operate in a shopping centre. There is no direct need for such density pharmacies. When Haruaptemics are closed in cities, the nearest pharmacy is usually less than one km away, in some cases two kilometres away. The closure of Haruaptetee in the city does not concern rural areas, and therefore the changes concerning the branch pharmacies do not affect the availability of medicinal products in rural areas. In order to ensure access to medicinal products on land, the simplified requirements for branch pharmacies were allowed at all times. Question 4: 'Has the Ministry ordered or prepared an analysis of the availability of pharmacy services in cities after the closure of branch pharmacies? " As I have just described, the nearest pharmacy in the cities is usually less than a kilometer away, even after the closure of branch pharmacies. In recent years, the total number of pharmacies has remained relatively stable. There is no significant impact on the availability of the pharmacy service in connection with the termination of branch pharmacies in densely populated areas, as there are basic pharmacies operating in the vicinity of branch pharmacies, except one pharmacy in Ida-Virumaa, in the district of Oru, where the nearest pharmacy is ten kilometres away. At this point, I say that it is undoubtedly the role of the local government to ensure that the people of its region have access to medicines. Question 5: 'How do local authorities who organise public transport view the closure of branch pharmacies? How do the organisations of the elderly and the disabled view closure? ' I think that the primary interest of both local government and organisations of the elderly and disabled is the quality pharmacy service. The fact that the pharmacy is part of primary health care and a place where you can ask for help with simpler health concerns and advice on how to use the medicine. That is why the presence of a pharmacist is actually important. In order to ensure the availability of quality services and pharmacy services, both the state and local authorities must act. The closure of Haruapteks in the city does not concern rural areas and therefore does not affect the availability of medicines in the countryside. Rather, it ensures that rare pharmacies, as pharmacies with simplified requirements, remain and can be maintained in rural areas, and that medicines are still available in the future. In areas where demand is low, there is an opportunity to use the services of an online pharmacy or a pharmacy bus. In order to motivate the provision of pharmacy services in rural areas, it is possible to apply for a pharmacist's starting allowance as for teachers and health professionals. Question 6: "What measures has the Ministry planned to take to alleviate the problem in Ida-Virumaa, where 17 pharmacies are to be closed (e.g. in the district of Kohtla-Järve Valley, where the nearest pharmacy is ten kilometres away)? ' If you describe the location of pharmacies in Ida-Virumaa, according to the Agency's data, there are 18 pharmacies in Narva, for example, that is about 1,500 inhabitants, but eight of them are branch pharmacies, five of which are closer than 500 metres to the main pharmacy and two are 600 to 700 metres away. So, there's actually a lot and a lot of pharmacies out there. If you look at other cities in Ida-Virumaa, there are five general pharmacies on Sillamäe for example, or you have to close or reorganize one branch pharmacy. Kohtla-Järve has four general pharmacies and one branch pharmacy, two branch pharmacies in Jõhvi. When they are closed, there are still five general pharmacies in Jõhvi to serve people. There are three general pharmacies in Ahtme and three branch pharmacies alongside them. Thus, although the number of rare pharmacies in cities is very high in Ida-Virumaa, the number of general pharmacies is sufficient to ensure that the population has access to medicines. The only branch pharmacy in the vicinity of which there is no main pharmacy operates in the Kohtla-Järve Valley district, but this does not mean that the pharmacy service should disappear from this area. According to information from the Agency, there are pharmacists who would like to start a business there. If there are entrepreneurial pharmacists, it is possible to bring the requirements into line with those of the general pharmacy and to apply for a general pharmacy licence to continue the pharmacy service in the district of Oru. So we need to focus on encouraging good pharmacists to open pharmacies. Even in a situation where, at all the locations of the branch pharmacies, licence holders would decide to cease their activities, the availability of medicines would be affected to a limited extent by the presence of basic pharmacies in the vicinity. Of course, local government plays an important role in ensuring health care for the inhabitants of the region alongside the state. Here, together with the local government, we need to discuss what is the appropriate solution for the inhabitants of the Oru district. It would be possible to open a pharmacist's clinic that meets the requirements of the general pharmacy, from which residents of the municipality of Oru would receive further advice on the use of medicines and on simpler health problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-17_U16	Questions for the Minister. Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-17_U17	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good minister! I would have a lot of questions, but then I will focus my question on a purely philosophical basis. We would discuss this from another point of view, for example, if we had too few pharmacies, poor access to medicines, and we in this Chamber or in your ministry would try to solve the problem of how to make medicines more accessible to people. At the moment, all your answers are that we have too many pharmacies and that they are too close together. I'm asking you what problem we're solving. Is the problem now that the drugs are too close to people? What's this country's business, or what's it to us, how the pharmacies deal with it, if they're 500 meters apart? What's your problem, what's this ministry thing? It's none of my business if they can handle themselves. It is not up to us to report how long this distance must be, nor is it a WHO thing to tell us whether this frequency is too tight or not. Why are we even discussing this?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-17_U18	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-17_U19	Thank you for your question. We don't write the distance. This is the situation that the Supreme Court found to be unconstitutional. In the past, there were geographical restrictions on establishment, and now the question is that we want a high-quality pharmacy service and a place where a person can get advice on health and medicine. Pharmacies are located on every corner of the city, but the branch pharmacy does not need to have pharmacists present and space requirements are lower, so it is cheaper to set up a branch pharmacy. Since it's cheaper, it's probably more economical to keep it. This reduces the economic livelihood of general pharmacies. Thus, there are no places in the city where a person actually receives advice from a pharmacist - pharmacies are not places where drugs are also produced locally, and they do not meet our expectations. At the primary level, the pharmacy should be the place where medicines can be prepared, where advice and assistance can also be obtained from the purchaser of medicines. It will be more difficult to cope with eligible basic pharmacies and general pharmacies if there are several rare pharmacies that meet the simplest requirements. In cities, making such an exception does not make sense. In a country where it is more difficult to find a pharmacist, where the turnover is smaller and it is more difficult to cope economically, the authorisation of branch pharmacies with simpler requirements is justified.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-17_U20	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-17_U21	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! I am also particularly interested in rural areas. So far, if there was a "certain criterion" of less than 2 000 inhabitants, what effect does administrative reform have? You have mentioned that these questions do not affect this in any way, but there is still a need for certainty. Now, for example, there is a large municipality in Saaremaa. What is the effect of Saaremaa on a rural person who really needs more medicine? There's also an older population, etc. How are their interests protected? Perhaps you can tell us what is conducive to their situation and access to medicines.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-17_U22	Thank you. Really, this 4,000-person limit on the settlement unit. If it is not a small town or a town, it is possible to have a branch pharmacy and it must be linked to the main pharmacy. I do not know whether replaying the borders of the municipality within the framework of the administrative reform will affect the economic livelihood of the main pharmacy, but if there is a strong basic pharmacy in the city of Kuressaare or somewhere else, who runs branch pharmacies in rural areas, then there is no concern. If the number of inhabitants in rural areas decreases and it is simply difficult to cope economically, it is not wise to have a pharmacy either, then it is rather a question of whether alternative ways are available, then they are pharmacies buses or online pharmacies. However, I do not see any particular connection with the administrative reform. This depends on the pharmacist, the main pharmacy's economic livelihood and how many branch pharmacies are wanted and can be maintained.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-17_U23	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-17_U24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! Well, the reasons why you can't go on the old way are a little suspicious and seem strange. But I'll ask you something else. Indeed, with regard to the reform of the pharmacy, people also have this in mind, and the question is that pharmacies are one big business, namely the business of pharmaceutical companies. Please disprove these suspicions that pharmaceutical pharmacy prices are not priced freely by pharmaceutical companies, and tell them that they are still evolving in a different way.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-17_U25	Thank you. Well, the fact that pharmaceuticals are a business, I can't argue with you in any way, I can't deny that. There is no doubt that the production of medicines has always been economically profitable and will continue to be so in the future. The question is what are the prices at which medicines are available to people in Estonia. In this respect, the Health Insurance Fund should be commended for the introduction of a system of price caps and, in the case of medicinal products on the list of preferential medicines, for all prices to be negotiated with the manufacturer. When new producers enter the market, generic medicines also come, prices go down. So if you look at your participation in a recipe that a person pays, it all shows a positive trend. It has not happened that everyday and frequently used medicines become considerably more expensive for people. Another issue is new and innovative medicines, where the research development component in their development has been very high. That's what they're gonna ask for back as a price. However, the price and availability of such medicinal products is another issue. Frequently used medicines, these are then medicines for high blood pressure, heart disease or diabetes, have been negotiated at the health insurance fund, limit prices have been set. They are actually available to people and there is no upward trend. However, when you look at the turnover of pharmacies, the size of the pharmacy market grows every year and nearly two thirds of the turnover of pharmacies, so a large part of the turnover of pharmacies is made up of prescription medicines. At the same time, the proportion of over-the-counter medicines and other products, such as cream-shampoos, is already very important. The question is, what we want is either that the pharmacy is like a point of sale or that it is part of primary health care, that is, whether the emphasis should be on medicines and pharmaceutical advice or on buying and selling.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-17_U26	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-17_U27	Thank you. I think that people primarily want to get their medicine from close to home. And when we were talking about distances here, the times are actually very important, because there may be a lot of pharmacies in Tallinn, but there is still no way to get anything from anywhere at any time. I don't completely understand the fact that there are several pharmacies in the supermarkets. Oh, my God! There are several shoe shops in shopping centres, also and sometimes side by side. Competition is what suppresses prices. But I would like to draw attention to an important matter that you may not have thought about or that the legislator has never thought about before. If we shut down pharmacies in town, it will actually have an effect on land pharmacies. For a very simple reason: there are four large pharmacy chains in Estonia in general, and with the turnover they receive in their city, they also hold up loss-making small pharmacies in the countryside. If we shut down their business in the city, they won't be able to compensate for it and keep the land pharmacies up. Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-17_U28	Thank you for your question. I don't agree. It's not a pharmacy, it's either a general pharmacy or a branch pharmacy, it can't be maintained free of charge. If the wholesaler has either 10, 20 or 100 pharmacies, he still has to pay rent, heating, electricity, employees' salaries, etc. for all of them. Finally, we pay for it, it's a mark-up for medicines sold in pharmacies, over-the-counter medicines or other goods. The costs that the pharmacist makes in the form of sales space and people's wages, we pay back for the goods we buy from the pharmacy. The number of pharmacies located in different locations also affects the general costs of the pharmacist and what the mark-up is.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-17_U29	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-17_U30	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I don't agree with you. You've probably never been in private, I have. I'm still a little bit, one foot, and I know very well that if you make a profit, you can use it somewhere else. Your logic, or rather the logic of the ministry that you put forward here, is this: if I have a large chickenhouse in the neighborhood, I have no point in keeping my ten chickens, and the ministry thinks that it is necessary to adopt the relevant laws, or, say, ten chickens within a ten-kilometer radius of the large henhouse. My question is very basic. If you speak of quality, as in the case of maternity hospitals in Valga and elsewhere, we can see that some quality is not guaranteed by shutting them down. On the contrary, we have more farm births where there is no quality. Now, if we shut down the rare pharmacies in the country, there will be no quality.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-17_U31	Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-17_U32	Why are you fighting against private entrepreneurship and competition through unwise action?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-17_U33	Thank you. We're not closing down on Earth. In the city, pharmacies from different chains may be side by side, there is competition, but they must be general pharmacies. Pharmacies where there is a pharmacist who advises people on medicine. There is no justification for the fact that there are no pharmacists in cities where pharmacies are already more frequent, to allow for a simplified pharmacy, where medicines are not prepared on the spot, and the space requirements are lower. As a private entrepreneur, you will understand that the costs are higher in several locations. The pharmaceutical market is growing, so purchases are made from the pharmacy anyway and profits will reach the pharmacy anyway. The question is whether costs are incurred in one, two or ten places.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-17_U34	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-17_U35	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. It is known that pharmacists also have a start-up allowance that can be applied for, and I remember that it is EUR 15000, as do family doctors. Has there been any discussion at the Ministry on this subject? Indeed, the Committee on Social Affairs has expressed great concern about the lack of pharmacists and the lack of specialists in branch pharmacies who can advise people. Therefore, false purchases are very often made or incompatible medicinal products are chosen. Have you also discussed increasing the start-up allowance so that people who would actually go to the country to open up to the pharmacy would be able to do so?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-17_U36	Thank you. Indeed, at the time when the start-up aid was created, EUR 15000 may have been motivating, but time has passed, all prices are rising and costs are rising. I agree that, as in the case of doctors, in order for starting aid to be motivating to go to the country and set up a pharmacy there, an increase in this amount should now be discussed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-17_U37	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-17_U38	Thank you. I listen and wonder where this completely absurd and anti-business ideology comes from. Of course I know the answer where it comes from. If there aren't enough pharmacists, teach them more. After all, this is a completely absurd requirement that the owner of a pharmacy must be a pharmacist. The hospital doesn't have to be a doctor, the owner of a woodworking company doesn't have to be a tisler, the owner of a gun store doesn't have to be a weapons specialist. After all, these are completely absurd claims that you are making. Why? Why should free entrepreneurship be limited to such things? It's for every company to do, and it's for his own good, to have specialists who can advise the client, no matter what field it is, including the pharmacy. Why do you have to make such stupid regulations?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-17_U39	Thank you. I agree that there is no good way to regulate the pharmacy market. Whether there are geographical restrictions on establishment, population-based restrictions, the requirement of a pharmacist, completely free competition, a ban on vertical integration, or the fact that pharmacies are not allowed to have a wholesaler, but the owner does not have to be a pharmacist, may be someone else, all of them are used in Europe, but none of them produce the ideal result. Following the decision of the Supreme Court in 2013, the Riigikogu found that it would be reasonable for Estonia to switch to pharmacists. Is that the perfect way? I'm sure it isn't. And the transition period is complicated. At the same time, I see it as useful. If we want the pharmacy to be not just a point of sale, but a part of primary health care there is an on-site pharmacist who prepares medicines and advises people on how to use medicines, looks at their interaction and the risks involved, and advises on simpler health concerns that can be alleviated by over-the-counter medicines, then I think that pharmacists are in the right direction. There are certainly other ways to regulate the pharmacy market.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-17_U40	Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-17_U41	Thank you. Dear Minister, Surely you can agree that this whole regulation of the pharmacy market is an extremely complicated issue. My question is not about this, but it is about the interest that miracle animals are over-the-counter medicines, that they have to be sold in pharmacies. On the answer to your previous question, where you described the pharmacy as part of primary health care, I think that access to medicines may become even more difficult. Ibuprofen could be bought in addition to all other possible health products that are already sold online, especially considering that all sorts of things are sold in supermarket corridors that allegedly heal immediately. Maybe we should get back to it so that, at least, over-the-counter medicines can be more easily available online. People are aware enough of what they buy and how they buy.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-17_U42	Thank you. This is an interesting debate, it is a fundamental debate. The question is simply how to balance the easy availability of over-the-counter medicines, advice and assistance that cannot be obtained from a shopping centre or a gas station, and the livelihood of land pharmacies. If over-the-counter medicines are taken from the pharmacy to shops and filling stations, a very important part of the turnover of land pharmacies will be lost, and it will become even more difficult to cope with these pharmacies. It is a question of whether we are going to support the holding of land pharmacies in any way so that the sale of medicines does not fall there. This is the place of impact assessment and decision-making. We can allow wider access to medicines, but we must probably compensate rural pharmacies for this cost, because otherwise they will just be gone soon.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-17_U43	Thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-17_U44	President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much for your answers. Thank you very much for this patient explanation to the foolish entourages, who certainly do not know this area as well as you do in many respects. But we also certainly agree with you that the issue of pharmaceutical sales is more complicated and certainly more responsible than selling shoes, clothing or stockings and pants. Although health-harming goods may also be included in our purchases here, the responsibility of both the pharmacy and the buyer for medicines is undoubtedly very high, because we know that using the wrong medicine, especially if it is long-term, can be very damaging. Nevertheless, we find it somewhat incomprehensible that the ultimate bureaucratization is that steps are counted on how many meters there are between two pharmacies, how many pharmacies are on the corridor of one shopping centre, how many kilometres there are from one location where there is a pharmacy to another. We do not think that this is a very prospective and creative approach. It is also incomprehensible that in many cases there should also be pharmacists. Undoubtedly, I too believe that every person has asked the pharmacy for advice on what I should take in the event of this or other distress, and it has been explained. Clarification is very useful for both analogue and original medicines, which should be taken, which should not be taken, which is one of the side effects, which is the side effects of the other, etc. The presence of a specialist in a pharmacy is certainly welcome, but we do know and see that a large part of the territory of the Republic of Estonia is currently exposed to pharmacies at all. I can say from my rather extensive experience going around Estonia that the issue of access to medicines is an issue that does not go away with anything else. Especially when you're going to meet older people, that's the subject. And this is because until now, before the administrative reform, the municipalities were either in all of them now, but most of them still have some kind of pharmacy, it was possible to get the grass off the ground. Let's not forget the golden rule that the length of a minute depends on which side of the toilet door is on. That is also the question of medicines. If you're a hard-to-move old man, then a pharmacy a mile away is a long way from you. If you're completely bedridden and you don't really have anyone to bring you the medicine, then that mile is very far away. At the beginning of this year, I buried my father-in-law who had severe heart failure. All the drugs we had to buy him, deliver him, distribute him and tell him it's yours today, it's yours tomorrow, it's your day after tomorrow. If you think he is the only person in the Republic of Estonia who lived like this, then no, there are very many such people in Estonia. From this point of view, I and my group believe that such bureaucratic restrictions and reading meters and square meters are not the most sensible way to solve this problem. One aspect of solving the problem is the preparation of pharmacists so that they are sufficient. In the case of pharmacists, as in the case of doctors, it is inevitable that we have to deal with regional wage differences, coefficients. We can't even find people in very many county centers right now as doctors or department managers. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-17_U45	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-17_U46	These attraction centers have become so thin. A doctor who went to Finland told me that you don't attract people back with only pay. Especially in rural areas. There also needs to be a social environment that satisfies people. We see that social environments are becoming increasingly unsatisfactory. A young doctor doesn't want to go. Probably the pharmacist doesn't want to go to a place where he's got snatches and alcoholics. This is a much wider problem than only pharmacies. If we now approach these pharmacies bureaucratically and, let us say, the availability of the service is reduced, this social environment will become even worse. It's like a telescopic rod that you pull out of the link one by one. The question of pharmacies, the question of rare pharmacies, the question of pharmacists, this is a more diverse, varied subject. That is why we call on the Minister and his ministry not to look at the matter bureaucratically and not to read the meters, square meters and heads. We have seen how bad it was to read heads and draw borders in the implementation of administrative reform, and we can already see how this will have negative consequences. We also call for creativity and not bureaucracy in this area. I understand that making such an appeal to bureaucrats is relatively barren, but still, on behalf of our group, I am calling on you to do so. Thank you again for your answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-17_U47	Members of the Riigikogu do not wish to negotiate. Is there something the minister wants to say? He does. Riina Sikkut, Minister of Health and Labour, will take the floor to conclude the negotiations. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-17_U48	I agree that a bureaucratic approach to health care, including pharmacies, is not sensible, but we need to look at the whole picture. These same wage coefficients, etc., cannot be applied unless we have pharmacists. When you start paying wage subsidies to wholesaler chains, it seems a little difficult to explain it so that it can be understood, both for me and for a large part of the population. We need to think about what the service we want from the pharmacy is and who is best placed to guarantee quality. If it is a pharmacist who is also the owner and is responsible for health care and advice as well as for economic survival, and we can use a wage coefficient to motivate him, then we must go that way. If we want the work and business of chain pharmacies to continue, it will also reduce the national levers that can regulate the location of pharmacies, including their entry into the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-17_U49	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-17_U50	Free mike. Thank you. I'll see you tomorrow. Closure of the sitting at 15.52 p.m.
