ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U1	Good afternoon. Monday of the 12th working week of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Who wants to hand over drafts or inquiries? Representative of the Government of the Republic Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U2	Honourable Chairman! Good Riigikogu! Today, the Government of the Republic is initiating a draft law on the protection of personal data. Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of this bill in the Riigikogu. And secondly, the draft law amending the Aliens Act. In processing this bill in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of the Interior Andres Anvelt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U3	I have adopted two drafts, and we will proceed with them on the basis of the Home and Working Procedures Act. Incoming check, please! 75 members of the Riigikogu are present. Adoption of the agenda. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the agenda for the 12th working week of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. 71 members of the Riigikogu were in favour, one against, one abstention. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U4	Enquiry submitted by Riigikogu members Raivo Põldaru, Martin Helme, Henn Põlluaas, Mart Helme, Uno Kaskpeit, Jaak Madison and Arno Sild. On behalf of the heirs, Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U5	Good Chairman! Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On 5 March, seven members of the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party submitted an inquiry to Mr Jevgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour, on the implementation and validity of the principles of insurance medicine. Slowly, our insurance medicine has been hit. Not based on the interests of the people of Estonia, i.e. the recipients of health care services, the funds of the Health Insurance Fund go to a very large extent for investments in the construction of new hospitals, the purchase of equipment, and the loan portfolios of hospitals are remarkably large. For example, the financing of loans in Northern Estonia Regional Hospital accounts for 38 to 40% of the budget between 2018 and 2020. In essence, this means that from each of the 100 euros allocated by the Estonian Health Insurance Fund for diagnostics and medical treatment, about 40 euros goes to banks to cover loans, not to provide services to people. It could be said that the sick in Põlva and Hiiumaa are often unable to get medical care in Tallinn and Tartu at the end of the year due to large debts and large investments. The queues are very long. With regard to such problems, we have five questions for the Minister for Health and Labour to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U6	Jevgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour, will answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U7	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Dear Riigikogu, thank you for your questioning. I'd be happy to answer the questions you've asked. First of all, let me have a little introduction. Indeed, in Estonia, the financing of health services is mostly carried out through the sickness fund, i.e. through a single state insurance fund. This is done in such a way that hospitals, or healthcare providers, are private legal entities, many of which belong to the state and many to local authorities. The Health Insurance Fund buys from them health care services at certain prices, but the day-to-day management of the household is how to guarantee high-quality medical care for this money. According to this model, the Health Insurance Fund's price list includes a list of the costs necessary for the provision of health care services at government level and based on the decision of the Health Insurance Fund's Council. This price also includes expenditure on real estate, medical salaries, equipment and supplies. Of course, the provision of care primarily requires qualified medical personnel, medical work, but this cannot be done without high-quality infrastructure. And the next year, the more it's like that. Doctors rely heavily on modern diagnostic and therapeutic devices. Of course, in order to be able to provide a good level of health care, Estonia must be able to invest in the modernization of hospitals in general. For its part, the Health Insurance Fund or the State will not make these investment decisions, hospitals will not be built, hospital management will do so. The Honourable EKRE Group has somehow become awkward, but yes, in order to provide treatment, hospitals also need to be modernised and built, and the cost of infrastructure is indeed one component of the cost of health care provided by the Health Insurance Fund. But hospitals are not built or reconstructed all the time. This means that there are certain periods where investment activities are more active: when new capacities are developed, larger investment projects are carried out. Of course, in these periods, if, for example, European Union funds or the state budget provide support, these funds will be used. If this is not the case, the hospital will use its own money, including to co-finance projects with European Union funds. However, the so-called own resource is relatively limited, as the cost of infrastructure may amount to around 10% in the pricing model of the Health Insurance Fund, and in these cases loans are also taken. This is perfectly normal for all healthcare providers. Now I will answer the questions you have asked. Question 1: 'How did the lack of money, including the high credit burden in hospitals, affect the provision of diagnostic and therapeutic services in December 2017? How do you comment on the situation of being built but not treated? " First of all, the lack of money in healthcare as a whole is certainly an objective concern. It is precisely as a result that I have set my political priority, and in view of the reform of the financing of health care, we have also made the corresponding decisions, that there must be additional money for health care. This law entered into force at the beginning of this year, which means that there will be more funds for the health insurance fund. But, of course, how much we can cure people depends on how much money we have. There was also a question of how to comment on the situation that is being built but not treated. There's no way. The Health Insurance Fund pays for the actual treatment of individual persons on the basis of medical bills. If people aren't treated, money isn't allocated. The Health Insurance Fund doesn't give money to build hospitals, it gives money to treat people. And inside this money is one of the components of the cost of maintaining and improving infrastructure. Hospitals can make decisions to upgrade their infrastructure, which is absolutely necessary from time to time. You're drawing attention to a serious problem. Indeed, under the conditions of money scarcity, and not because of construction or construction, the loan will be repaid or not paid, but because the contract of the Health Insurance Fund has been insufficient over the years to serve all people, there have been situations in which the planned procedures and admissions scheduled for December will be postponed to the next year, because the contract does not exist for that month. This is not about building, but about the fact that the Health Insurance Fund has not had enough money to pay off the medical services this month. As I said, underfunding in healthcare is a serious problem, but gradually, and as a result of decisions on additional funding for health reform, it will certainly ease in the coming years. The second question: 'How can the Ministry of Social Affairs consider a normal situation where insured citizens have made their contributions, the Estonian Health Insurance Fund has allocated money to the contract partner, but a highly specialised treatment service (e.g. invasive myocardial infarction treatment) is not provided? " Once again, if the health insurance fund has provided money to the contract partner for the provision of the service, even due to lack of resources, acute care will not be provided. As mentioned, there have been cases where scheduled treatment has been delayed, but the statement in the question is certainly neither correct nor justified. Question 3: 'You claim that the limit price for healthcare covers all the costs necessary for the provision of this service and that no distinctions are made on the basis of the type of hospital. How, then, can we talk about the consistency of the price list of health care services if the loan burden of the North Estonian Regional Hospital is close to 40%, the loan burden of other hospitals is significantly lower [---]? 'Health care prices are calculated on the basis of the actual average practice in Estonian health care institutions, taking into account the cost and years of actual use of equipment and surfaces. The price model takes into account that on average 10% of the cost of healthcare services is the depreciation of medical devices and surfaces. By analysing the actual proportion of the depreciation of medical devices and surfaces in hospitals compared to the cost of all healthcare services, the proportion has been found to be similar. The share of the loan burden in revenue depends on the investment decisions taken by a specific institution in a given year. The loans are usually repaid at a faster rate than the depreciation period of the equipment or surface acquired. In addition to the money received from the health insurance fund, health care institutions also have other benefits, such as targeted financing. The list of health services includes a single price for all health care institutions. No distinctions are made on the basis of hospitals or types of hospitals. The current pricing methodology is the same for all hospitals. Therefore, the argument that the different levels of debt in hospitals affect the availability of services to some extent is erroneous. The fact that the debt burden for hospitals varies is due to the different investment needs of hospitals and the ability to invest. The loan is by its nature a financial instrument which the hospital may use, and a loan may be necessary if the necessary investment does not have sufficient own resources. Under certain conditions, it may be more reasonable for a hospital to borrow on favourable terms than for own funds to invest. Once again, hospitals are by their nature private legal entities and investment decisions are made by the hospital's management and board of directors. At the same time, it is important to understand that since PERH and the University of Tartu Hospital provide services to a much larger extent than county hospitals, their financial capacity to receive loans is also greater and later to pay them back. Consequently, their loan amounts are more significant. If we look at the loan burden, we will see that it is really large, especially at the Northern Estonian Regional Hospital, or PERH. This is due to the fact that PERH has invested very intensively in recent years to provide the best possible healthcare at different stages. The institution has also received support from European Union funds for this, but in order to implement the plans, it has also had to borrow to cover its own financing. This has been one of the reasons why we have supported the emergence of major health consortia such as the North Estonian Regional Hospital and the University of Tartu Hospital. This will enable investment to be better planned and implemented with greater volume. I'm sure small hospitals have less capacity. These two health groups will certainly be able to develop their infrastructure much more systematically and thus provide better medical care for the Estonian people. That's what they're doing. The fourth question: 'What is it planned to make the financing of general hospitals, bearing in mind the claim made by the former long-standing employee of the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Estonian Health Insurance Fund, the current head of the Võru hospital, that there is already no case-by-case funding? The financing of the Hiiumaa hospital is also planned separately from the health insurance price list. What restructuring is needed in the health insurance system to ensure that the transition to public funding is in line with the law? ' First of all, I confirm that both the current healthcare financing system and the new budget-based financing of the hospital in Hiiumaa are in accordance with the law. Funding on a case-by-case basis remains valid and will continue to apply in the future. The new method of remuneration of the hospital in Hiiumaa is still in the list of health services, the service stated in the legislation of the Government of the Republic. The introduction of the new financing principle aims to ensure the sustainability of the hospital with an insular distinction of low population population in Hiiumaa and to continue to provide health care to the population in their home country. The financial inability of the hospital in Hiiumaa has been a problem for many years, as the volume of services and the income from it have decreased as a result of the population decline. This has led to a situation where fixed costs have no longer been covered. However, in my opinion, the existence of a hospital providing specialist medical care is still necessary in Hiiumaa. Hiiumaa hospital is a complex service, which must take account of the cost of providing several services, accepting the fact that not all resources can be used optimally in Hiiumaa. At the same time, these services are still essential to ensure access to medical care. This is the pilotage of this financing model at Hiiumaa Hospital. We review the results and then we can assess whether it is reasonable to extend this model to other smaller hospitals in Estonia. Question 5: "Does the financing of new hospital constructions planned in Tallinn and Viljandi also come from the funds of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund (in cooperation with the euro grants)? How many tens of million euros will be spent on these new buildings with additional health insurance funds? ' I repeat, it is not possible to separate the provision of services and the necessary infrastructure. Modernising hospital infrastructure is essential to ensure high quality medical care, optimise the cost of healthcare and ensure the sustainability of the hospital network. The construction of Viljandi's new hospital is planned to be financed from European Union funds, and the hospital's own contribution will certainly be added to this. As has been said, from the very beginning, we have foreseen that the Health Insurance Fund will also take into account infrastructure costs in its pricing methodology. From the outset, the health insurance is also intended to cover infrastructure costs as an essential prerequisite for the provision of medical care. This has been the case so far and will continue to be the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U8	Questions for the Minister. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U9	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. As we know, Kaja Kallas, newly elected President of the Reform Party, has proposed the introduction of voluntary health insurance. I had the impression that this would replace our current health insurance system. Maybe my impression is wrong. How do you feel about the development of such a system parallel to the health insurance fund? Could this be a complement to fill the gaps we now have and, to some extent, to alleviate the lack of money, or is this idea incompatible with the current system?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U10	Thank you. In my opinion, the new President of the Reform Party has not spoken up enough of this proposal, so I too find it difficult to fully understand what is being said. In addition to publicly guaranteed medical care, health care can still be purchased in Estonia. This is possible both by purchasing separate procedures and by concluding a private insurance contract. From this year, employers will also be allowed to insure their employees with private health insurance and without special preferential tax. There are certainly health services, the availability of which will be improved thanks to the introduction of private money in this way. And this is in no way a response to a solidarity-based health system as a whole. The main objective of solidarity care is to ensure that all insured persons receive the best possible medical care. This is a system of solidarity in three ways. According to the solidarity system, working people pay a health insurance fee that treats children, the elderly and other people who need medical care but do not receive income. The system is also solidarity-based in the sense that wealthier people pay more of the health insurance tax, so that the poorer also receive the necessary healthcare. And in the third sense, the system is also solidarity-based in that younger people, working-age people, contribute to the health insurance system in order for their parents and grandparents to receive medical care. I believe that a solidarity-based health care system is sole in Estonian society. There are countries where different solutions have been chosen which have resulted in improved access to healthcare for a wealthy minority, but the chances for the majority of people to receive proper medical care have been catastrophically reduced. I think that would be exceptionally bad for Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U11	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U12	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. You have assured us on several occasions that investment in infrastructure cannot be separated from medical care. This is certainly news for half of Europe's countries, where these cost items are clearly separated and health insurance is only for medical treatment, in some cases not even to compensate for the price of medicines. The models are different, and there is no way I can agree with your argument. Large loans and large investments must not be made at the expense of treatment. But it's a fact that PERH pays the bank its bank loan in November-December, but people with cancer or heart disease don't get treatment in December and November. That's a fact! How they set it economically is like a question of their skill. But I have a question from another area. If the price of the service is one and the same in Põlva, Hiiumaa and Tartu, then why is the maternity department in Põlva closed, but it is not in Tartu? The price is the same for the country.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U13	Thank you. I have to explain again. I didn't say there were no other models. There are different models. There are models in which hospitals are not private legal entities, but are public hospitals financed from the budget: some sort of amount of money is provided and let them see how much they can serve people. There are models like this! If there is enough money, it may work to some extent, but in general it will lead to the fact that by October the money will run out and the services will no longer be provided in the last three months. There are models for which it has been agreed that the health insurance fund will compensate for temporary incapacity for work, compensate for the purchase of medical devices and medicines and also pay for health services, including for example family doctors. There is a possible model where, for example, family medical care is provided as direct public funding to family doctors and is not provided through the Health Insurance Fund. It is possible that the fee for medicines will not be compensated. There are different models, that's for sure. I tried to explain to you which model was chosen in Estonia. You drew attention to hospital loans. It is not by chance that hospitals take out loans to make investments. This has been the idea of our system: we together collect money into the health insurance fund, from which Estonian health care is managed as a whole. People get treatment, can buy medicines cheaper, they compensate for temporary incapacity for work, but they also give hospitals money to develop real estate and, for example, buy diagnostic equipment. Still to provide high-quality medical care. I think this model makes sense. Otherwise, there would be a situation where one or the other component of medical care goes unbalanced. For example, there is money to fund the treatment, but there is no money for the investment, and the hospital is falling apart or there are no funds found in the state budget to build a new hospital. There is a contract, but there are no conditions for fulfilling a contract, or treating people. We have managed to do this as a complex, and this has allowed hospitals to develop more rationally the whole of the whole, made up of staff, equipment and infrastructure together. At the same time, the debate on whether this should perhaps be different is certainly appropriate. I was just explaining the way the system is built up right now. It is also true that over the years, the state has requested and will continue to seek additional funds from the state budget or from the European Union to help hospitals make the necessary investments. This is a huge investment. Hospital managers say that the 10% foreseen in the Health Insurance Fund's pricing model for infrastructure is too little. We have not promised any more because our main priority is to treat people. We have tried really to alleviate the most acute real estate problems that require major investment, with the help of European Union funds. We have done this quite a lot over the years and we will continue to do so. For example, we want to support the construction of the Viljandi hospital building with UCITS money. During the negotiations on the budgetary strategy for the country ending on Friday, we also decided to shoulder the reconstruction of the second phase of the Ida-Viru Central Hospital, and we will certainly continue to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U14	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! You have noted that the Protocol on Common Intentions signed in March 2017 states that 94% of healthcare demand will be financed in 2018. How can it be that you're planning a minus for this year? On the other hand, who still protects the interests of the health - assured? After all, it is a fact that people wait in long queues to receive a service that should, as it were, have been paid for.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U16	Look at this picture! Estonia spends very little on health care. Look at the comparison with the rest of Europe! However, with this little money we have managed to ensure, I dare say, world-class health care services for the people of Estonia. Of course, in relation to an ageing society and the fact that we have not changed the financing system in time, the situation has become critical in recent years. But we have wanted to ensure good health care with the money available and the result is long waiting lists. That's it! Yeah, that's not normal. I've repeatedly said it's not normal. In essence, insurance-based medicine means that a person pays a health insurance fee every month from his or her salary and, if he or she needs to see a doctor once every two or three years, he or she must be there. This is now possible in many cases within a reasonable time, not always in many cases, and this is also the main reason why we have undertaken a reform of the financing of health care. We want to get more money into the system to shorten the treatment queues. And if we look at the changes that have come into force this year, we can hope that we will achieve this result in the coming years. But it is clear that everything can be done even better. There are systems where a lot of money is put, but the result is bad. There are also systems where little money is put, and there is also a bad result. In Estonia, we have achieved a very good result with little money and we cannot jump over our shadows. In health care, you talked a great deal about investments, which are also important, but in specialist medical care, the majority of the cost is paid by doctors. The medical team is the main asset in the health care system, and if we put less money in health care, we will have fewer people able to treat. You can't save too much on that. In total, we have managed to keep a great deal to ourselves, and our system is still very effective compared to that of other countries. But I certainly have considered it necessary, like you, to have shorter treatment queues in Estonia. We need to allocate extra money to health care, and now it's happening.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U17	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U18	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good minister! The principle of solidarity undoubtedly sounds good: we should support the weaker in society and everyone should have the opportunity to receive medical care when they need it. Unfortunately, the fact is that Estonia is at the forefront in terms of the length of the medical queues. Now, if I'm right in the head, about 13% of people don't have access to medical care, and I think 11.5% of it is due to long waiting lists and half a percent of the distance and half a percent of the prices. With this, we are at the top of something in Europe! In addition, there are about 90,000 people without health insurance. Is that something to be proud of? What steps have you taken in the last few weeks to get us off that top? I suppose this isn't where we want to be. So, what are your solutions?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U19	Thank you. The long-term perspective must also be taken into account here. The health system is large and complex. When patients go to the doctor, they sense it simply: whether the doctor is or is not, whether the service is received or not. It's all very right, it's a legitimate concern. The question is, indeed, what is the solution? Solutions are usually more complex than problems. That Estonian health care needs extra money and that the current financing model will inevitably lead to a crisis, was said in the Praxis survey in 2005; this was said by Marju Lauristin in his time and was also spoken by the current President of the Riigikogu. Even when this system was created, it was said that it needed to be changed in a long view. These decisions were not taken in time. And since these decisions were not taken in time, the budgets of the Health Insurance Fund have been consistently negative since 2013. The money that had been used has sometimes failed to provide the most essential aid. Now we have tried gradually to emerge from the crisis. The main conclusion has been that health care needs extra money. And decisions have been made to that end. The second, more strategic and longer-term direction is a higher priority. The people of Estonia are hospitalized, but in fact, the team of family doctors can solve a lot of problems. The funding, rights and competences of family doctors are now being increased. With the support of our own country or the taxpayer of the European Union, health centres throughout Estonia are being built, where the spectrum of services provided is wider. And e-health solutions in the long term will make it possible to reduce the need for medical visits. E-consultations are already underway, where family doctors can consult with specialist doctors for different indications and as a result, people do not always have to go to a specialist, but can solve their problems with a family doctor. But these are all changes with a very long twist, which will give you their effect, but not in one year. Now, a little comment on your research. Indeed, according to one survey, Estonia is at the forefront of access to health care in Europe in terms of poor self-assessment. People were asked whether access to health care is good or not, and indeed, Estonian people are the least satisfied with the availability of health care services in Europe. You also said that Estonia has the longest treatment queues. This, however, is not an indisputable fact, but the people's opinion that the treatment queues are a serious concern has been answered by people. I'm sure it's a serious problem, it's not to be denied, but if you go into numbers a little bit, it turns out that the situation is pretty variable. The people of the capital are least satisfied with the availability of health services. It is often said that medical care is unavailable in the country, but the treatment queues are the smallest there. You can get access to a number of specialist doctors in the same week, which almost never happens in Tallinn. At the same time, analysts also think that the inhabitants of Tallinn are the most demanding and therefore the most dissatisfied. It was just a little comment on the study you marked. Generally speaking, I agree with you: treatment queues are a serious problem, poor access to medical care is a major concern. We have actually done quite a lot in two and a half years to make things better. Of course, as citizens, we would all like the changes to be effective the next day, but health is such a big ship that it takes time to turn it around. But he's already started turning.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U20	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I'm coming back to that model you were protecting here. We do this in such a way that the real estate costs have to be covered by health insurance. But how is it ensured that the management method is effective, procurement free of corruption and other activities as well? What kind of problems do you see here?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U22	Thank you. According to the law, the management of the health institution is also responsible for the rational use of resources. From our point of view, this change, which has long been made in Estonia, is very important: the Estonian hospital network has been organized. We don't have ten hospitals in every city. There are four hospitals in Tallinn and two hospitals in Ida-Virumaa and one hospital network development plan hospital in all other counties. As a result, the so-called management function is also better met, the money is used more efficiently. You did not ask about this, but perhaps it is important to know that the question has often been raised about how to ensure that investments are viable, for example, that too large houses are not built. Sometimes buildings are built or renovated on a very large number of beds, but the health insurance fund does not come to use them and the investment proves meaningless. This process is conducted in Estonia on the basis of the functional development plan of FAK or hospitals, which is endorsed by the Minister of Health and Labour on the proposal of the hospital. The Commission will review the needs of the specific infrastructure, consider the square meters, specific specialties, beds and everything else and, on this basis, agree on a plan for which and to what extent to invest. Corruption is a serious health problem. Perhaps this is a subject that is too late, perhaps not until recently. I remember that when I came to this office, there was a great deal of discussion about how one or the other state company is managed, whether everything is transparent, whether the risk of corruption has been mitigated. Many of these companies had an annual budget of 10 million or 15 million euros. And then I looked at my administration: North Estonian Regional Hospital has a budget of 150 million euros, the University of Tartu Hospital in its own size, the size of the central hospitals is smaller. In short, huge sums of money, but little social attention to make sure that this money is used in a targeted way. I am pleased that more attention has recently been paid to this by both law enforcement authorities and the public. There is certainly no place for corruption in medicine, nor for the 'normal' that has been mentioned here, for example, that someone has paid EUR 10 in order to get ahead of the line, nor, of course, for corruption of a larger scale, which concerns procurement or is a collusion between businesses. I wonder if there's anything else I can say in public... I get so much that we have had beautiful effective cooperation with the law enforcement authorities on this issue, and I believe that it will continue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U23	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I'm sorry, but I'm going to return to the decision to close the maternity department at Põlva and Valga Hospital for a moment. Please explain who made this decision to close these departments in concrete terms. When I read the Health Insurance Act, I have realised that the Health Insurance Fund is like a normal insurance company, so the Health Insurance Board should not be the one who says that in one region we no longer provide this or the other treatment. However, the Health Services Organisation Act says that Mr or Madam Minister coordinates this work and takes decisions on the termination or extension of the health care contract. Could you explain the decision-making process?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U25	The decision-making process is complex, but also simple. I hope that there will be no time in Estonia from this hall, too, when the minister will decide which hospital should host the reception. There is no doubt that the overall framework covers not only medical efficiency but also the regional policy dimension, and consequently decisions on a wider agreement must also be taken in the positions of political responsibility, and certainly also in the context of the Health Insurance Fund. However, individual medical decisions are not taken at political level in Estonia, and I hope there will be no such time. As regards the State's decisions, the State's decision has been to describe the types of hospital in the Hospital Types Regulation, which sets out the level of service provided by hospitals. These species are local hospitals, general hospitals, central hospitals and regional hospitals. The medically sensible course has been that more complex disciplines requiring more competence are concentrated and continue to focus on major hospitals, especially the Tartu University Hospital, North Estonian Regional Hospital and Tallinn Children's Hospital. On the other hand, it is clear to me, but I have discovered with surprise in recent weeks that it is not clear to everyone that the Estonian hospital network as a whole is optimal. We should not close any more general hospitals anywhere in Estonia, such proposals have been made to my surprise, because specialised medical care must be guaranteed in every county. Certainly not in full capacity, so we have a North-Estonian regional hospital-like institution in every county centre, but the most basic concerns of specialist competence must be resolved in the county hospital. I have discovered that general hospitals do not have certainty in this regard, in some places it is feared that the closure of one or the other specialty is a general course and eventually the general hospital will be shut down altogether. There's no plan. On the contrary, before me, the so-called networking process began and the idea is that the North Estonian Regional Hospital and the University of Tartu Hospital take greater responsibility for general hospitals to ensure that they provide high-quality health care services. The main problem we face is the shortage of medical personnel. This is a concern in Estonia as a whole. Little by little, it might work out, but the county hospitals are getting worse. The average age of county doctors is growing, young medical doctors are not very keen to go to work there, and this is also because there is no certainty as to whether after five or ten years this specialty will be in the hospital. There was no such fear before. When the networking process of the Põlva and Valga hospitals began, I told these hospitals that the government would not make a decision until they had agreed between them which specialties would remain in Valka and Põlva, which would go to the clinic in what way the system would be built up. It must be clear to everyone, only then will there be certainty about specific specialties after networking for the next 15 to 20 years. This agreement was also reached. Surprisingly, it has been accomplished. For some reason, however, it is a secret to the public that such an agreement is. I discovered that, for example, very many people in Valga, including local government leaders, did not know anything about this agreement. But yes, it has been agreed by specialty which specialties remain the responsibility of Valga Hospital. When it comes to healthcare restructuring as a whole, health is a very important issue for people. This is a message that I also stressed when I met the hospital leaders and other people in Valga and Põlva. Even if it is medically appropriate to make some kind of adjustments, they must not simply be done by sitting down in an office somewhere, looking at the numbers and making a decision. And that's it, because we're the smartest. This is a very important issue for people, and health management changes also need to be negotiated with local residents. This is clearly not the case for these two hospitals. In answer to a direct question, I will explain that decisions are made by the council of Valga and Põlva Hospital. For its part, the Health Insurance Fund has said that when such a decision is taken, the money provided for in the contract will not be taken away from hospitals, but will be kept to provide other services. This means a change in policy: in the past, when some specialty went down, the service was no longer provided, just as money was not needed and money was taken away and as a rule given to major hospitals who took over most of the work. This time it's been said that money can stay with you. It is the hospitals' councils that have made such decisions. There are certainly reasons for this. As a political authority, I certainly do not take a position on whether or not the high quality of medical care is guaranteed by less than 300 or 400 or 500 deliveries per year. This is an argument that needs to be held by medical staff and for which the people who make these decisions can take responsibility. I have no medical competence to assess this. The arguments I have heard are obviously not coming out of the ceiling, and there are certain reasons why such decisions are made. But in any case, when decisions of this kind are considered, they cannot be made in such a way that you can guess what you want here, we have our own kind of metrics in front of us. And it was actually the case that when we were talking to community representatives at local level and sitting at a table with them, it turned out that they were all rationally thinking people. First, very vital concerns were expressed when maternity departments were to close down: how pregnancy monitoring will take place, how family schools will work, how people will be given birth, and how they will get home from the hospital. Somewhere high, from the hospital manager's level, they may look like banal problems, but in fact, there are vital and serious concerns that the clinic needs to answer. It was said that true, the negotiating agreement states that it is not considered possible to provide obstetrics there in the long term. Looking ahead, it has to be recognised that the number of women of childbearing age in these counties will decrease by another third over the next ten years. The demographical crisis in this area is just ahead of us, but as a result, these proposals have been made. But, for example, about Põlva, this same functional development plan that I endorsed says that obstetrics will continue until 2020, at least until the end of 2019. In the past, other parties have been told that until 2019. While no such promises have been made for Valga, I think that there should also be a reasonable agreement with the local community instead of simply crossing them. Why is it done like this? I have not approved this, and I have told the parties involved, i.e. the representatives of the clinic, that reconciliation should be sought instead of turning the conflict up. But it's their responsibility. On the other hand, we would get to the health system, which we do not really want: we do not want politicians to start making treatment decisions. I'm not gonna make the treatment decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U26	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U27	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! There is no doubt about the need for more money in healthcare, and the 34 million that came with the additional money is very commendable. However, the example of England shows what happens when healthcare funding is raised from 6% to 9% of GDP very quickly. If there are no changes to the system, it was probably eight years later that they had reached the same place where they had been before the money was transferred. You, as Minister of Health, would like to hear a vision or a vision that needs to be changed in the system or that is planned to be changed. In fact, if we put money into the system, how will we still get the result that our system will become more effective and we will also be able to provide good medical care in the face of growing demand? What are these moves other than adding money?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U28	Yeah, you're very right. As you well know as a member of the Board of Health Insurance, the principle in Estonian health care has been introduced that even if there is more money in a particular specialty or in a specific section, there will be no more than 10% in a year. In general, international practice shows that if you give up a lot of money at the same time, it will be spent, but it will not result in maximum efficiency. And there is certainly one plus for financial distress: indeed, everyone is wondering how to make the most of it, how it can be done in the most sustainable way. However, because of the ageing population, a certain critical border is beginning to reach in Estonia and additional resources are therefore needed. Speaking of the future, this was discussed very thoroughly when the competition for the new chairman of the board of the Health Insurance Fund was held. We ordered this vision from the candidates and discussed them thoroughly in the Council. In itself, the vision is simple, but in practice it is very difficult to carry out. We are currently buying medical services: so many MRI studies have been done and so many receptions have been done. We could switch from it to buying more treatment. Perhaps we will not pay for the fact that the doctor has received so many people, but for the fact that he has treated his patients or given people so much good health advice or for the prevention that many people on his list will never get to the doctor. It is clear that such "piece-based" funding will certainly have its advantages. On the one hand, it's a motivator because you have to make your pieces, because money gets when you've done a piece, not when you've missed it. This is definitely something that needs to be discussed. There are also international examples of how efforts have been made to move to such a system. The willingness of people in the health sector to move in this direction is quite there, and I think this could be the direction. This is one objective that we have also set for the Viljandi funding pilot: we would really like to see whether it is possible to ensure better health for people by changing the financial motivations. Our aim is not to provide maximum medical care, but to achieve the best result in society. It is therefore necessary to know how to motivate more efforts to contribute to prevention, so that doctors and people themselves contribute more to prevention at different levels. This is definitely a change that could be in the future. During this year, the Chairman of the Board of the Health Insurance Fund has promised to present a vision on how to move in this direction. As I said, Viljandi's pilot project should provide some answers. The Viljandi pilot has another half that is well needed, it is a greater integration of social and health services. Clearly, in a society with an ageing population, this is an increasingly acute need. There must not be a situation where it can be said that it is not our concern, so go to the Social Insurance Board, but the Social Insurance Board says that it is half a health problem, so go to the Health Insurance Fund or to the local government. That's how many people answer. It would certainly take more integration to reduce this fall between the silo towers. And thirdly, I have a very strong belief in e-health solutions. This is not in the near future, i.e. in the perspective of the next year and the following year, but in the future. But let's see what opens up to us genetics, both genetic risk assessment and pharmacogenetics! If we are able to link the data we collect from people in cooperation with the gene pool today to the basic health record later, if we are able to create the necessary decision-support programmes for doctors to enable them to make smarter decisions, then it will certainly have a major impact in the future on the efficient use of resources, on the one hand, and on early detection and timely treatment of diseases, on the other. Consequently, I applied for approval in the negotiations on the country's budgetary strategy which ended on Friday in order to move forward with the gene project for another four years and to contribute EUR 5 million each year. The aim is to increase the number of gene donors and to move towards better matching these data with health infrastructure data. That's the approval I got.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U29	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U30	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! I was lucky enough to talk to Marek Seer, board member of Valga Hospital on Thursday. You used an interesting word like a 'piece-based'. Marek Seer's absurd argument, however, was that when the maternity department was closed, he would start taking babies from Valga to Tartu by taxi or ambulance. And now it gets even more absurd: Valga's maternity department 'produced' a loss of EUR 60000 to the hospital, but at the end of the year's balance sheet the losses were EUR 20000. Now I'm asking you, is this EUR 20,000 really enough reason to shut down the department? And at the same time, I handed over today such a thing as the conversion of six gynecologists...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U31	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U32	...who were very pleased with the situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U33	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U34	I mean, is EUR 20000 enough to cause...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U35	Time's up!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U36	...to shut down the maternity ward in the border area?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U37	Thank you. No, it's not! That is also what I have said many times: if it is a question of EUR 20 000, it is certainly no reason to close the maternity department or any other department. But I referred in my answers to the fact that the Women's Doctors' Association and a number of other medical practitioners have said that in order to ensure the safety and well-being of both mothers and children, maternity providers should rather be in larger places to provide the best possible assistance. I'm not a medic, neither are you. I am not able to take a stand for the argument that the medical team is having with each other, but it is certainly a compelling substantive argument on the basis of which to make decisions. Whether EUR 20000 is there or not is certainly not an appropriate argument. At the same time, I do not know whether Marek Seer told you what he told me in meetings with several employees of the University Hospital of Tartu and also with the local community. However, there are problems with the provision of high-quality services and this cannot be denied to the end.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U38	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U39	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I'm gonna grab one of your sentences. You said earlier that the number of hospitals is optimal and covers Estonia's needs. That's very good to hear. However, we are talking about closing hospitals, though building them, even though the network and the number of hospitals seem to be optimal. Against this background, I would like to ask: what is the reason for the construction of both the major hospital in Tallinn and the major hospital in Ida-Virumaa? Both will cost tens of millions of euros, and this money will come at the expense of the quality of health care and medical care for our people.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U40	Thank you. This does not come at the expense of the quality of human treatment. On the contrary, it is an investment in ensuring that Estonian people will continue to have a high-quality healthcare service available. Have you ever been to the second corps of the Ida-Viru Central Hospital? If not, go away! Look around, and then we'll talk! We are not building a new hospital there, but we are completing reconstruction in this corps, where, frankly, it is embarrassing that there will be hospitals in the Republic of Estonia in this state in 2018. And this is not the only example in an Estonian country where hospital infrastructure is so bad. It is not normal for our very good and professional medical staff to serve the people of Estonia under such domestic conditions. Such houses must be repaired, repaired. He also asked why a new hospital would be built here in Tallinn. Tallinn's new hospital project is prepared by Tallinn City Government. The goal is, as far as I know, to add two existing central hospitals, once this thing stopped. The proposal to have one adult regional hospital, one child hospital and one central hospital in Tallinn has been made a long time ago. However, two central hospitals remained. I'm sure it makes sense to be laid off as one big hospital. This will enable doctors' resources and infrastructure to be better used than in two different hospitals, and will save costs in the future. And last thought. I really said the hospital network was optimal. That means I don't think we should close a hospital in any of the county centers. But given the movement of people, it can't be said that every hospital in the county center works optimally. In Viljandi, for example, the hospital is obviously too large to meet current needs. That's why we're planning to take it down at Jämejala on the edge of town and build a more compact, modern-day general hospital with a health centre where family doctors can start providing services. There are certainly more hospitals in Estonia, which have never been built on a much larger population than have now remained in these cities. Many buildings are not optimal. What I wanted to say in my sentence is that there's really no place to foresee the closure of a general hospital. At least I do not see the need, perhaps people with different political priorities have other ideas. But I think it is necessary to give all general hospitals the assurance that they will not be threatened with closure, that they will continue to provide a very important service in the future. And now for the last thought. Health care is one of those areas in Estonia, where the need for services is growing despite the decline of the population. While it is generally said that, due to population processes, there is a need for some optimization, the needs in health care as a whole are growing. The social sector is the same and this needs to be taken into account. Tallinn certainly needs more hospital space in the future, and this is what is being done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U41	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U42	Thank you to the manager. Good waitress! You gave a brief overview of the decision-making process on the closure of a county hospital department. You took a brief look at the fact that there is a health fund council somewhere, there is a minister somewhere, there are members of the county hospital board, and you argued that politicians should not take the view here that you do not dare to take the view that we are delegating it to medical staff. At the same time, we know that there are local politicians in the local hospital council, and we also know today that both the people of Põlva and the people of Valga are keen to keep their hospital maternity department. What about your brief overview of today's situation? What should be done in extraordinary Council meetings, whether to apply for extra money from the Health Insurance Fund? What could be a positive, constructive proposal to come out of this situation in a different way without closing down the departments?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U43	Thank you. It is true that local hospital councils also have politicians, and it is their task, in the case of online hospitals, to stand up for the interests of the local community. How well or badly they have done so, I am not expressing my position here. But there is no doubt here, I have said this repeatedly, room for a reasonable compromise. That it would be possible to have a maternity ward even if there were, I don't know, 50 births a year, nobody insists. In fact, when I communicate with the community, I have been assured that people are reasonable and rational and understand that there is a critical boundary somewhere ahead. In Knee, the opinion was expressed that they believed that the limit was 200 births. Last year there were 240 births. So the views are not very far apart. The situation in Valga is a little more complicated because there are a lot less births in Valga, and that is why the hospital situation is more complicated. I have already made my call before, and I will do it again. I think that the clinic could find a compromise with the local community instead of simply saying that since we think so, that is the way to do it. There's an agreement room. In a democratic society, the agreement gives a strong positive message. What if all of a sudden it's not the most economical or there's some kind of consideration that doesn't call for an agreement? I think that the Health Insurance Board will certainly address this issue this Friday.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U44	In the event of an inquiry, one oral question may be asked. The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the heirs, Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U45	Honourable Chairman! Good minister! Ladies and gentlemen, We thank the Minister for his long and exhaustive answers. The so-called informative material was quite a lot, and the Minister's story also showed that the high debt burden on hospitals should not affect people's chances of receiving treatment. Unfortunately, the question remains. The Minister mentioned that maybe the people of Tallinn are more demanding and that is why they find that the service is not so well received in Tallinn. But perhaps the fact that Tallinn hospitals have a high debt burden is behind this assessment, and there is no money to simply heal. The country's loan burden is low, and there's more money to heal. In fact, there is still a suspicion that construction companies and equipment brokers have bitten a very large piece of health care pie, gaining a significant share of healthcare money. Several specialised doctors in health care institutions have also repeatedly informed the public that it is precisely because of the lack of money that people are missing treatment at the end of the year, that much is being pushed to the next few years. We're talking about the queues being long. And the minister also notes that the money is scarce. If the funds were knowingly allocated less than the annual budget would require, then it is clear that the money is actually scarce. The minister says we're still working on medical treatment. However, a man who runs a hospital and carries out internships, not a theory, but a story about the head of Võru Hospital and an article published in his medical news, claims that there has long been no case-based funding in general hospitals. In conclusion, we could say that indeed, we are proud to use the little money that is being allocated to us. When it comes to the percentage of total social output, our numbers are smaller than in other European countries. The Minister thinks it's kind of starting to move now, but health care has come so far that the health insurance system needs innovations. It's been kind of bad since 2013. However, the Social Democrats have been right in several governments, and they have already had a chance to start with innovation and improve the situation. However, we believe that the planned innovations will lead to Estonia's people receiving quality care with shorter queues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U46	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U47	Good President! Ministers! Colleagues! Sigmund Freud already said that the driving force of life is sexual drive and fear of death. The current concern about the maternity departments, which travels around South Estonia, both causes fear of death and inhibits sexual drive. So basically, Freud's analytical psychology, like it doesn't work out. I mean, the valgamaians submitted 2700 signatures against the closure of the petition department. Today, the Committee on Social Affairs has taken this debate. Thank you, Helmen! It's not going to be a long wave, it's going to be a shorter wave. Mr Ossinovski has rightly said: neither I nor he is medical, we cannot comment on this. It's all right, and I wouldn't comment if there wasn't a call on my desk signed by seven women doctors from Valga's maternity department. I appeal to their opinion. Why shouldn't I believe them? At the same time as some other organization, I'm not going to say names because they smell like politicians, they think otherwise. I mean, basically, those people who are in the trenches say that they can do their job very well and quality if there is one. How can I put it? I'm going to make a comparison, which in some ways may be inappropriate, that a doctor is somewhat like a teacher. They both don't know what happens when... The teacher doesn't know what happens when he opens the classroom door, and the doctor doesn't know what happens when he does the first paragraph of what he sees there. And here's the experience, here's the baggage, theoretical and practical preparation, all that ensures that the processes succeed, be it education, be it medical science, such as surgery or gynecology. In fact, these are emotional things, but what Marek Seer said was that 20,000 euros would settle it, still takes a breather. I am very pleased that Mr Ossinovski said this: the Health Insurance Board will meet on Friday. At the same time, we also learned how the stories are on the ground, I was in Valga for two days and I looked at all these things from the bottom, from the top and from the side. And it turned out that neither Põlva nor Valga nor the Võru hospital had written a request for money to the health insurance fund. It's nonsense that there's going to be some kind of check number, and this check number has to be handled. And then people are told that hospitals have their own budget, schools have their own budget, and public authorities have their own budget. There's no budget, there's a check number! I mean, please, if you have a meeting of the Health Insurance Board, consider that there are 200 children, 150 children, 130 children or 250 children. If it was 500, it would be awfully good, but they're not. Every child is extremely important to me as a teacher, and every failure is devastating. We can't let that happen. Let's do what's expected of us! Let's not drag medicine and economics away from the periphery! Let's not carry the property out of there, let's not carry everything out of there, let's not make the border zone! Really, Evgeny, help us! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U48	Martin Helme, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U49	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not at peace with any of the answers I heard. One of the most ear-slashing Minister's statements was that if we change our current system, the components of the system will go out of place and maybe we'll have such ugly broken hospitals where we can be treated, but the hospitals themselves are ugly. I'm sorry, the components of the system are hopelessly out of place in Estonia already. We have 90,000 people without health insurance. In this situation, talk about some kind of universal health insurance is nonsense. We have the longest waiting lists throughout Europe and we should not say that people just feel that objective reality is something else. If a higher percentage of people in Estonia say that I will not be treated, even though taxes are being taken from me, it is an objective reality. 14% or 13 decimal points of people in Estonia say that for them medical care is unattainable due to tails. There is no point in saying that infrastructure investments cannot be deducted from the provision of the service. Once again, there are two huge hospitals in Estonia: Tartu University Hospital and PERH. They sum up one third of the total health care money in Estonia and one third in November-December, and no treatment there in January. But the wages are paid out, the construction's on, the bank's getting their loan money. Four or five out of every ten euros given to the hospital goes to the bank. You know, there's no point in saying it's health money, and there's no point in talking about the need for more money. The story you always say, "Take some money and pour it on the system, then it won't work!" This system has exhausted itself, this system has collapsed. And in this situation, to tell you that we need to build another giant hospital?! How much money we've put in PERH! PERH has made 60 or 70 million real estate investments. We're gonna build it to the end, and then we're gonna build a new hospital on Lasnamägi for a billion dollars, and we're gonna shut down PERH! It's a criminal thing to say here. Criminal! And, of course, what's this for? This is at the expense of doctors saying that it is not possible to give birth in Põlva. It's as unserious as it gets. If the Minister says that he cannot have any influence on health policy, on where, how and what is being treated, he could have, frankly, resigned a long time ago. What did you wait so long for? After all, it is a recognition that the whole area is beyond power. What this political leadership is if it is not that you make sure that all people in Estonia receive the medical care guaranteed by this universal and solidarity-based health insurance, so that it is not that tens of millions of people are built in Tallinn and tens of millions are built in Tartu, but the departments in Põlva and Valga are simply shut down. In fact, we are talking about the fact that the prices of medical treatment are everywhere in Hiiumaa, Võru, Põlva, Tartu, Tallinn is absolutely not competent! We are told that it is not possible to accept births at the same price in Põlva, but in Tartu, these people can all crash so that there is no real reason to talk about any adequate pricing. Now for corruption. Quite true: I have discovered again that I agree with Mr Ossinovski. A billion or a little more than a billion will go into our tax money health care system. Of this, about 100 million will go to pay for medicines, and the same amount - another 100 million - will be spent on health days or on incapacity days. So a total of one fifth of our health allowance goes there, but there is no substantive control over it. How medicines are compensated or given to people for their health days is not subject to substantive control. And if anyone thinks our country is very effective and discovers both waste and stealing, I'm sorry, so far we haven't seen proof of that. So it is quite clear that the Estonian health care system has stalled. It is quite clear that, as always under left-wing leadership, it has been bankrupted, and it is also quite clear that the screaming of the same people to give more money does not come out of this bankruptcy. The treatment service is not getting any better and competition is not promoting anything. The doctor will not be able to escape from these large centralised conglomerates in any other way than to flee to Finland, even to nurses and auxiliary personnel, there is nowhere else to escape from than to Finland. But the patient can't escape anywhere. We need precisely more diversity, more competition and less concentration in huge events, in which even the Minister says that he can do nothing - it is such a big and powerful thing to look for someone else. We'll look in a year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U50	The members of the Riigikogu have no more wish to negotiate, but the Minister does. Please, Minister of Health and Labour Jevgeni Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U51	Thank you! March Sults left the room, and that's a shame. I was glad that Märt Sults had read Sigmund Freud, but I'm sorry that not well enough. He told me that Sigmund Freud has the term 'terror of death'. Sigmund Freud is talking about the death drive, or Todestrieb. And on the Estonian hospital network, I don't know how to transfer his idea. Secondly, I must agree that there is a certain beauty in this comparison between a doctor and a teacher. Having been responsible for both areas of government, I have thought about it myself, but have come to a different conclusion than Mr Sults. It is true that when Märt Sults as a teacher goes to the classroom and opens the door, he does not know what lies ahead, what the educational process is going to be and how, whether in one way or another, children acquire the material that the teacher gives them. Similarly, another doctor does not know what awaits him when he cuts the patient open to treat him. The only critical difference is that no matter what Märt Sults does, people's lives and health are not in question at school. However, how a doctor decides can depend on the life and health of a person. This is why caution and care in healthcare are critical and at a completely different level than in education. I can say this in response to the last speech. I have noticed for several years that the EKRE has been surprisingly supportive of the idea that instead of a system of solidarity, a system of private insurance could be transferred. There are also positive words here on the proposal of Kaja Kallas. It is clear that as a result, the majority of people in Estonia will receive more expensive or worse healthcare or both. Indeed, those in this Chamber may personally win, but from the point of view of Estonian society, the implementation of this proposal would be disastrous. It has been tested in some countries, and I think it is precisely such results that have been achieved. Why the previous speaker so passionately supported this idea and somehow called into question the principle that all people could be guaranteed health care regardless of their income is beautifully incomprehensible to me. However, in this regard, the previous speaker is certainly right that, in the context of next year's elections, there really is an important question on which voters must make an assessment: should only those who have enough money to provide themselves with healthcare have to get to the doctor, or should we move towards increasing access to medical care for all by allocating additional money from the common state budget? It's a world-view choice. I am a Social Democrat and I think that the state should ensure that the basic service that is so important for people is available to all those in need, regardless of the amount of their income. I think access to medical care is a human right. But there are definitely people who don't agree with me and think that if you don't have money to pay yourself, if you don't have good genes or you don't have enough care for your health, then the sad news: you have to pay for it yourself. And if there's no money, take a loan. Under this system, the people of Estonia would not take out a loan at the North Estonian Regional Hospital. In quite a few countries, that's how it is. In the event of a more serious health problem, people have to go to the bank to pay for their or their loved ones' operation. There is no such thing in Estonia, and I hope that it will never come.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U52	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U53	The next question is submitted by Henn Põlluaas, Martin Helme, Mart Helme, Uno Kaskpeit, Raivo Põldaru and Arno Sild. On behalf of the heirs, Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U54	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. I have the honour to present an inquiry to the Minister of the Interior, Andres Anvelt, on behalf of the ambassadors of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. This concerns, as has been said, the provision of rescue services in Estonia. As we know, the situation is extremely critical both in terms of the number of rescue workers and in terms of wages. In Estonia, their wages are lower than those of all other civil servants. As a result, a large proportion of existing workers have left and there are no new ones. The deployment of commandos is only 71% of what is needed and puts the provision of rescue services into question. For a very long time, there has been an argument between rescue workers and the government about raising their salaries, and that is why we submitted a question to Mr Anvelt in March. I'm not going to read the questions, I believe the Minister will do it by answering them. We very much hope that there will be some positive message here for 2100 people working in the Rescue Department, most of whom are rescue workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U55	Andres Anvelt, Minister of the Interior, will answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U56	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! First of all, thank you for your questioning. I am pleased that you are going along with an issue that has also been one of the most important priorities for me during my term as minister. How can we reduce the deficit that has arisen in the rescue service over the years? As we know, various studies have been carried out. In a ten-year perspective, 150 million have been spoken of, so the issue really is vital. But now to the questions. The first question: "What has the Ministry of the Interior done to ensure the availability and functioning of vitally necessary rescue services for every person in the medium and long term? ' I come back to the same sentence I said earlier. Unfortunately, in previous years, internal austerity opportunities have been constantly sought: there have been redundancies, reduced numbers of commandos. During this government, there is a certain limit to it. There can be no mention of any reduction in command, this whole process must be turned to a serious upsurge. There are a number of action plans, but the most important thing is, in my opinion, that there is also political will. And when we talk about political will, one of the goals is that the availability of rescue services for the people of Estonia does not deteriorate in any way. At present, it is quite satisfactory in comparison with our neighbouring countries. From the population of Estonia to 93%, the aid can be granted within a maximum of 15 minutes. But it all needs to be kept going. Therefore, both the government action programme and the decisions of the country's budgetary strategy for this year have very specific targeted investments. Let us remember that one of the priorities of this government is to invest 3 million euros each year in the personal equipment of the rescuers during the four-year period of the RES, which has greatly mitigated the lack of the most basic means of rescue. One important issue is transport assets, because if rescuers don't have a good car, it's hard for them to get there. As you may know, in 2016-2018 dozens of special cars have either arrived or are reaching the disposal of Estonian rescuers for 23.5 million euros. One of the biggest breakthroughs, however, is that on Friday's negotiations at the Sagadi Manor, we achieved that the Salvation Board's salary was the pay of the rescuers, and we are not talking about all the employees of the Rescue Board, at least 20% will rise next year. And the RES doesn't have a jump that big every year, but a step-by-step raise to keep these salaries competitive. This would mean that the savior's average wage would rise to EUR 1000. It is now EUR 802, which is really very, very small. Why do you need that raise? This is certainly necessary because people stay in the organisation and come to work there. I'm not so pessimistic about young people not wanting to be a savior. Yes, they do! Of course, we'd like a bigger line at the rescue college door. This year, unfortunately, many of the recruitments of rescuers have failed, but I am more than sure that the increase in the motivation package will certainly inspire young people, and within a few years, when we are in a demographic crisis, especially in terms of the entry of young people into the labour market, more of them will want to be rescued. What else is important? In order to make people feel safe at home, the Government of the Republic project has allocated EUR 1.5 million to repair the heating and electrical systems of homes. It is people who live below the poverty line and are at risk in this sense. The Government of the Republic decided to continue this project in the negotiations on the country's budgetary strategy in the coming years. Municipalities have been very active in this and we are already talking about not 500 households, but at least 700 households. In fact, I think that maybe this data has become obsolete and this number is even bigger because more and more local authorities are joining this project every day. The second question: 'What can be explained by the low wages of rescue workers compared to average wages or other civil service employees? What is planned to be done so that the uncompetitive remuneration of rescuers does not jeopardise the continued provision of services? ' I think I answered most of that question. Right before I came in here, I asked for information on the savior's pay rise. I would like to stress that I am talking first and foremost about the rescuers, I am not talking about the commanders of the commandos or any other employees of the Rescue Board. For example, in 2016, it was decided to raise wages by 1.3%, and in 2015 this figure was 3%. The first major raise was really last year. In fact, it was decided last year by you in this Chamber of the Riigikogu. The savior's average wage rose by 5.9%. It was one of the biggest increases in the last ten years, but it's certainly not enough. I believe that 20% is a great relief. The third question: "What is the situation with the equipment and equipment of the rescuers? Do the available resources ensure a high level of activity and safety for the rescuers themselves and are there plans to upgrade equipment and technology? ' Again, I already gave you an overview that we have planned investment four times three million. So much was allocated last year, this year and the next two years. This money is just about to get the personal equipment of the saviors and special demeanors. Plus everything else you might need from the hoses and ending up with other means. The savior must have no shortage of anything if he drives out to save people's lives. One very important piece of work is definitely prevention. This year, we will not only contribute to the exits of accident sites, but also to prevention. In fact, there are preventive exits to see that more than rescue. This is, I think, very positive, because this is why we have reached the safest period in Estonia's so-called statistical history in terms of our deaths. It also improves car technology. As I said, in addition to the European money we have used, in order to replace life-cycle life-cycle life-cycle life-cycle life-cycle life-saving vehicles, our own taxpayers' money is expected to use EUR 81 million during the 2018-2021 period. We're replacing ten main cars, four tank trucks, fire-fighting ATVs, UTVs and sea rescue jets. And we don't forget about volunteer rescuers. Last year and now four years in a row, half a million euros have been written into the RES to promote voluntary rescue. This includes EUR 100000 for sea rescues co-operating with the PBGB and EUR 400000 for land rescues. With this money, volunteer rescuers can repair their equipment, receive training, and some bounties, as they say, increase. But the most important thing is to motivate these people to help professional rescuers. However, I would like to emphasise once again: the volunteer is voluntary and this system will never replace a rescue system based on professionals. The last question: "What is the Ministry of the Interior planning to do to prevent a crisis in the rescue sector, where the provision of the service is in serious danger? ' I dare say the rescue service is not in danger. This claim is allayed. There have certainly been critical moments, and it has been my job as Minister of the Interior since the first day to come up with proposals that, as they say, concern existentially critical problems. This had to be considered even when we agreed on a coalition agreement, knowing the problems in this area. We also talked to rescue specialists, which need to be done first and what can be expected. From the surface of all this, a coalition treaty was born and the first investments were made. During the same year and a half, as Minister for the Interior, I have contributed very much precisely so that we can see very clear progress in the action plans where we have more empty spaces in terms of investment. As regards the construction of new commando buildings, two completely new and modern buildings have been opened this year: Vändras, Vastselinas. When we discussed the RES, we agreed to start building the Sillamäe joint building. So there's no way I can accept that rescue is in danger. There could certainly be even more investment, an even better situation, but I think we have been able to do quite a lot in a year and a half. And we will certainly be able, after the last decisions on the national budget strategy, to put the rescue work on even better track to make our people feel safer in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U57	Questions for the Minister. Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! You brought in a volunteer subject. What about the amounts planned for this? Do they go to the municipalities and are there plans to hand over professional techniques to them? There have been cases where, in fact, fully qualified technology goes not to volunteer service, but to the southern countries, to other European countries. It is, of course, welcome that we are also thinking about this, but wouldn't it be good if this money went into the hands of the local authorities where volunteer commandos are? Perhaps there would be an opportunity to increase their fees a little.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U59	Thank you. I'm a little more specific: I'm sure the local authorities are also a partner for the volunteer rescue teams, but the most important partner is the state. We agreed on a financial allocation with the Salvation League when it came to the decision that EUR 500000 would be increased a year. I organised several round tables: we sat down with the people of the Salvation League and the Rescue Board, and we came up with the most satisfactory solution possible for all parties, which are the areas most in need of money. The same transport you were talking about, a very good observation! We are now rapidly handing over older rescue machines, which will be replaced by new ones. For the new ones, one nuance is that their repair is often more expensive than those of the old ZILs and GAZs that are still used. They don't want to give away the old ZILs and GAZs I saw last week in Vastselina. They're so cute, and men say they're driving through everywhere. And it's cheaper to repair them. Somewhere you're gonna get the part you need. But try to get a part of Man somewhere! There, too, is the so-called 'double fund principle'. One is the money that goes directly to repair the means of transport. The major repairs go through the special decision-making mechanism of the Rescue Board. What else is there? One thing is, for example, increasing funding for the rescue exit. We want to improve the skills of volunteer rescuers to act in road accidents, for example, and many volunteers themselves have been interested in this. The Rescue Board must make its own choices, but it is clear that volunteers must also be provided with technology. My very clear rule is: the system of distribution of money to volunteers must be decided by the voluntary professional association itself. Of course, we talked through some nuances at the round table, but the principle that the Salvation League, as a binding organization of volunteer rescuers, has, in my opinion, worked perfectly so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U60	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U61	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister! [[Andres Anvelt sneezes.]] I wish you a speedy recovery! I can give you a few good tricks on how to heal your voice later. But here's my question. In difficult times, the Rescue Board has had to look inside itself for resources found mainly by reducing the administrative side. Why am I marking this? Because the number of volunteer rescuers and also commandos has increased considerably over the last few years. This is positive, but against this background, one minus stands out: the number of officials of the Rescue Board who manage all voluntary salvation in Estonia has remained the same or rather decreased, and clearly under conditions where the number of volunteers has increased several times, the ability of the Rescue Board to manage it has become poor. The higher salaries of the rescuers are a great thing, the technical resources are also a great thing, but is it also in the interests of the administrative side of the Rescue Board to expect additional funding?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U62	Thank you. I am, in general, cautious about any proposals to increase the administrative side. As we know, bureaucracy is abducted. I think that if the Rescue Board has a properly and well-functioning umbrella organization called the Salvation League, they don't have to have an armada of officials next to them. Things can also be solved by existing forces. But, dear colleague, I will certainly pay attention to this and ask the people of the Salvation League, and afterwards you, which specifically disturbs you. I don't see everything. But in itself, I'm careful to increase any administration.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U63	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U64	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Do we now have the word'system' meant to be used deliberately in the rescue system to ensure that professional rescuers, in cooperation with voluntary units, are able to operate in such a way that professional rescuers fill the gaps in voluntary rescue work? We all know that volunteers often lack smoke diving and, for example, the ability to dive under ice. There are many other features that require training and equipment that volunteers simply do not have. Is it so planned that professional rescuers are close enough to provide such special assistance if necessary?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U65	Thank you. I would reverse this: it is rather the volunteers who support professionals in certain cases. The best example: while driving across Estonia, I have heard from professionals that they would not imagine their work without cooperation with volunteers when there are forest fires and other natural fires, which require to be hosed for miles. What am I talking about? I'm talking about them supporting each other. Today, if we are talking about rescue centers, it is North, South, East or West Estonia's own, then the rescue organizer has a proper overview of the number of rescuers and what capacity there is. For example, either there are volunteers working there, specifically Mart or Andres today, who have been trained to do this and do it, or there are no volunteers. Then he knows he can't expect that help. This system has worked. According to this, they are paid a motivational fee or, as they say, a bounty of what somebody calls it, for being on guard. But the bottom line is that under no circumstances are we striving for volunteers to replace professionals in any way. The tradition of voluntary rescue has always been in Estonia, it is, as they say, historic. After all, the fire department came on a voluntary basis in its time. But in today's difficult rescue efforts, professional rescue work with a volunteer cannot and must not be replaced and, frankly, we would not want it either.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U66	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U67	Thank you. Rescuers have demanded that their wages be adjusted to at least average wages, i.e. EUR 15 million from the state budget. The government is offering significantly less, a 20% increase, which I think will require about 9 million. Given the importance of the work these people are doing, is there really no way to find this last piece?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U68	Thank you. If you rewind a bit in short history, I personally negotiated several times with the union of rescuers. And, of course, the same question was on the table. But since the real possibilities of the state have also been taken into account, there has never been such a leap of more than 20% of salary increases. Maybe it was in the early 1990s. I was thinking right now, I remember that when I was a young police officer in 1992, my salary was 500 kroons, and one year it rose to 550. It was also 10%. But as far as our plans are concerned, I dare say that these are the next steps in the next few years. This is the first step. I dare say for sure that in many commandos pay rises above average, precisely because the commandos fall into three different categories. There are fewer trips in some places, and there we want these people to be more involved in prevention. So I'm all in favour of this rescue wish, but we're moving forward step by step. This is a historic step today, and I have received feedback from the rescuers that they are quite happy that the ice is starting to break.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U69	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, If you look at our rescue commandos and their assembly, do you see that completion, readiness, ability to operate very quickly and efficiently are equal in every region of Estonia, even in real border areas? Perhaps the problem should be dealt with more closely in a county or in some areas?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U71	Thank you. You see, the rescue system, as has already been pointed out here today, is actually a wide system. The Rescue Board is one side and the volunteers are the other side. Estonia has already established a regional distribution, and I think it is a very good regional distribution, it has its own rescue centers. And in the big picture, we'll definitely see how the rescue centers are equipped with humans. If it's harder to find people in one region or another, we're going to have a different kind of human resources policy there. This question has even been on the desk of the Chancellor of Justice, whether it is still possible that, in the eastern region, for example, the higher salary is only slightly higher than 5%, but still higher than elsewhere. The Chancellor of Justice said there is no problem with that. Exactly as well, we share the technique. And, of course, we must also consider the various rescue events that occur more often in one place or another. There are similar rescue events in Tallinn, somewhere in southern Estonia. In summary: To do this, the Rescue Board is that it monitors the whole picture more widely. You asked about the level of the parishes. I've been here and there myself, and last week I've been talking to the leaders of Värska, for example. It was clear that they supported their volunteer rescue command very strongly. At the same time, I've seen that in some places a whining face is made. Well, that's a political choice, isn't it? In some places, volunteer rescue commandos are far stronger on their feet than in others. The most acute problem facing volunteer commandos is precisely those rooms that they can use to keep their technique in them. But coming back to the beginning of the story, I think the picture is really being viewed on a large scale. I hope that investments in the interests of staff will alleviate the pay problem and that this will also reduce the problem that the average age of rescuers is on the rise. The savior's job is not easy and there are quite a lot of health risks, but their average age is now just over 42. Maybe you can bring it down a little bit when there's an influx of new arrivals. But let's see how the numbers of the next few years change in this respect.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U72	The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. Thank you, Minister. I'm opening negotiations. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U73	There are probably no people in Estonia who underestimate the importance of the Rescue Board and its employees for our security. At present, the Rescue Board employs about 2,100 people, most of whom are rescuers. It is the rescuers who come to help us, in critical situations, to put out a fire, to eliminate an accident or environmental pollution, etc. Without them, it would be impossible to cope. According to surveys, people trust and recognise the saviors most of all state structures and offices. However, it cannot be said that the contribution of people who risk their lives for us every day is valued by offering them a salary corresponding to the danger and tension of their work. Salvation wages have been much lower for years than the average wage in Estonia. They have been the lowest remunerated employees in the public sector. This isn't right. In our neighbouring countries, Latvia and Lithuania, even though the standard of living there is lower, the wages of the rescuers are higher than we do. A large part of our rescuers are forced to work on a second job as a driver, construction, etc. in order to feed the family. This means violating health, stress, and fatigue, which are dangerous both for them and for others. We are now in a situation where more and more rescuers leave work in the private sector or even abroad. The number of rescuers has fallen far below the minimum necessary. The average age of rescue workers is rising every year and in recent years a third of recruitment competitions have failed because no interested parties have arrived. The biggest reason why new people don't get on board and the old ones leave is clear: low pay. So far, it has been claimed that the prestige of the rescuers is high and therefore there is no need to raise wages. Now that the situation has become critical, we are allowed to give the Rescue Board some EUR 9 million. Raising wages by 20% is good, but that is not enough. It is not enough, even if Minister Anvelt said that there has never been such a rise before. This is significantly less than would be necessary to make the pay of rescuers competitive and to stop them leaving. To make the average salary of the savior equal to the average in Estonia, we need 15 million euros. The government claims, however, that there is no more money. When we look at the irresponsible handling of government money, such excuses seem more cynical than cynical. The extremely foolish tax policy has created an alcohol race to Latvia, which has already cost us nearly EUR 100 million in excise duty, plus VAT and income tax, and the tens of millions that were previously left here by Finnish tourists. And there are probably no other transport companies in Estonia that would buy fuel here, because we also have much higher excise duties on fuel than in neighbouring countries. And now they want to spend 40 million on free bus rides, which are already doomed to failure, although at first sight may seem tempting. That's probably why they do it before the election. The examples of how money is burned, instead of paying the rescuers a decent salary, are infinite. And no one is responsible for that. If we want to feel safe in the future and make sure there are rescuers, such drips will not be enough. The Saviors must receive at least the average wage in Estonia and immediately, otherwise many of us will pay with their lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U74	There is no further wish for negotiations. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U75	The following question is submitted by Urve Tiidus, Kalle Palling, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Jüri Jaanson, Lauri Luik, Valdo Randpere, Kalle Laanet, Kristen Michal, Ants Laaneots, Meelis Mälberg, Laine Randjärv, Arto Aas, Johannes Kert, Urmas Kruuse, Madis Milling, Taavi Rõivas, Remo Holsmer, Deniss Borodich and Terje Trei. On behalf of the heirs, Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U76	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Members of the Riigikogu! Together with my group colleagues, I presented an inquiry to the Minister for the Interior, Andres Anvelt, who, as Head of the Ministry of the Interior, has undoubtedly information about this area, the common denominator of which is drug policy, and he also has an impact in this area. International statistics measure drug deaths per million inhabitants; Estonia has reached the top of this negative table, unfortunately. At the end of February, the United Nations Office for Drugs and Crime renewed official statistics on drug deaths. This table shows that there are 102.9 deaths per million inhabitants in Estonia, or 103. It puts us in eighth place in the world. Only Iceland and Sweden are ahead of the European countries. At the same time, the white paper on drug prevention put together in 2014 under the leadership of the Ministry of Social Affairs set the goal that the number of drug-induced deaths should fall to 80 per million inhabitants by this year. Nine years ago, there were just over 70 drug deaths per million inhabitants in Estonia and we were among the averages in Europe. In addition, requests for information during the last six months were motivated by information fragments that came to the public via the media. Based on these, it can be assumed that the availability of drugs in Estonia will not decrease, but increase. I will give you a few examples of startling headlines: 'The dance music festival caught ten large-scale drug dealers in one weekend', 'The major operation prevented street dealers', 'The drug operation took away a considerable amount of drugs in one evening', etc. Leaving aside the wishes of the press to attract the attention of readers with headlines cannot be expected to ignore the reality of the content of these titles. A completely separate question was raised by an opinion article published in the Wallpaper a few months ago, which refers to an expert estimate that the contribution of drugs to global production amounts to 1%. According to the hypothetical opinion of the author of this article, this would mean an industry of approximately 200 million euros for Estonia. Other facts are also known. For example, over 800 drug criminals are imprisoned and make up a significant part of the prison population. On 8 March, the Ministry of Justice's annual report on crime in Estonia was discussed here in the Chamber of the Riigikogu in 2017 and it became clear that the statistics on public health crimes reflect the high number of cases involving illicit drug and psychotropic substances. So we can't conclude from this either that everything is okay or that it's getting better. It is precisely for the above reasons that we would like information and comments from the Minister for the Interior on the actual state of affairs and trends in drug policy. We have six questions about this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U77	Andres Anvelt, Minister of the Interior, will answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U78	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! First of all, thank you for asking me this question. I think that the drug issue has been one of the most critical issues in Estonia, unfortunately, for a few decades, with rising and low tides. There are several historical reasons for this, there are certainly geographical reasons for this, there are many social reasons. In advance, I am not going to talk about this separately, that, of course, the titles that were read out here are all really because the police have done something. Drug crime is largely latent crime, and if you do not deal with it, you can live like there are no such crimes at all. This is a complex, conspirated crime, which requires a lot of surveillance, imitation of crimes and all that to reach both street dealers and major players, as we have done in the last year to combat fentanyl. Now to your questions. The first question: 'Some time ago, the law was amended in Estonia to prevent the spread of new drugs. With the amendment of the law, new substances can be quickly placed under handling restrictions in groups with similar structural formulas. What has been the result of this in practice? " It has produced very good results. Bureaucracy has been greatly reduced. This means that according to the law, the Social Minister's regulation contains lists of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances, which now have a new list VI and have 15 groups of substances similar to the structural formula. What does that mean? In simple language, how to take, in a simpler, perhaps more complicated way, for example, when we talk about this very notorious fentanyl, he has so many derivatives, analogues, that if a new analogue for fentanyl is to be sold, we now do not have to go through this long bureaucratic process because, structurally, it is the same substance, we can start catching criminals and collecting it from the market. This has certainly reduced the administrative burden. In recent years, if we had previously added 30 to the list of 30 to 40 new substances per year, this figure has fallen to less than ten. The second question: 'The experts consider that drug addiction can be reduced in combination with three activities. First of all, drug diversion. Secondly, reducing people's desire for drugs, or prevention. Third, drug addict treatment. If one of these components does not work, it is difficult to expect broken and successful results. Which of these activities is the most successful in Estonia and which needs help? ' Estonia is based on a white paper on drug policy. Its objectives and activities are structured to enhance synergies between these three areas. When we talk about these influences, first of all about the availability of drugs, there is one type of policy where, in fact, I dare to say, it is precisely because of the work of the Police and Border Guard Board, and certainly because of the work of the Tax and Customs Board, when we are talking about smuggling, but also because of the work of the PBGB at national level, there is quite a lot of progress in recent years. It is precisely with this availability that we see that the involvement of people who are entering the ranks of regional police officers and who have to deal with risk groups across Estonia, also in rural areas, has unfortunately shown that the same fentanyl has started to move a little outside the metropolitan areas and also into unconventional user groups, the involvement of these specialists is making progress. But once again, reducing the availability of drugs, as I said, is one way of affecting it, alone, it only has a temporary effect. Preventing the start of drug use is, of course, a process; this is what we do, in particular, through communication, through work at school. Surely you cannot underestimate what the inquisitor said that 800 people in prison are drug criminals. Although I specify that in most people these people are not locked up because they have only committed drug crimes, drug crimes are only part of their package, usually there are also a number of crimes against property. But that's it. I'm sure these things are also directly related. The third thing that I think is one of the most important is how we help a drug addict to heal. This is what I personally consider to be the most important point in the general approach to drug science. About a month ago, I convened the Government of the Republic Committee on Drugs Prevention, composed of representatives of several ministries. The main partners are the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Justice, and certainly the Ministry of Education and Research. We discussed the situation that we faced at the end of last year and at the beginning of this year, when the police did a very good job by emptying the market from this very fentanyl, but it was not possible as much as necessary to direct those people in need of treatment to a place where they could be treated. Several processes are starting or starting today. We have both outpatient and inpatient drug treatment facilities. Life has shown that stationary drug treatment is much more effective. This is largely done in Viljandi, where there are over 70 treatment places. It's probably not enough, but I'll get to that. The other thing is the same needle points. The third thing is that we have launched an information line that currently works in Tallinn 24/7. We also want to extend it to Ida-Virumaa. It would help both the policeman and the social worker if any time a person or person comes to them because he wants to get out of this situation. You see, the thing about a drug addict is that if he's been out of drugs for a long time, that kind of physiological sense can come out of his head very suddenly and he's starting to break. At a time like this, you have to give her a hand to start bringing her out of this situation quietly. Of course, the probability that it will succeed is unfortunately very small, but it actually exists. Every human life is valuable. When we talk about preventing drug use among young people, there are several programmes that we have launched for young people. These are internationally recognised evidence-based programmes that help to bring the risk groups out of the so-called street risk that they may end up within the reach of dealers. This is the same SPIN program that you have definitely heard about, which combines thousands and thousands of young people, football matches and many other things, especially in Ida-Virumaa and Tallinn. Also a game of behavioral skills that makes both the community and the school environment safer. Last time in the Committee on Drugs Prevention, we took a clear course. In the vast majority of the world, in Estonia, the fight against drug addiction started primarily with the work of law enforcement agencies and harsh penalties. We know that too, and we have life sentences. Yeah, they're for dealers, and I think they're earned too, but if we're talking about drug users when we talk about those people who've gotten caught in a drug dealer's network, then jailing them isn't going anywhere. They need to be treated because they're actually sick people. Therefore, in the last country's budget strategy, the Ministry of Social Affairs, with our support, supported by the Ministry of the Interior, requested additional funding for HIV, AIDS and drug addiction treatment, inpatient treatment, including addiction treatment, in addition to what exists there, almost 1.5 million every year. Question 3: "What is the result of international cooperation in reducing the availability of drugs and detecting drug crimes? ' This is actually the basis of this whole thing, because the history of Estonian drug crime has been very diverse. There have been times when Estonia itself was a large drug producer. Amphetamine flowed from here in Estonia to Finland and Sweden in the late 1990s and early in this century. Thanks even to international research groups, Finesto, for example, and also to the Swedes, most of this activity was exposed and ended. Estonia is now in some sense a transit country, also a target country. There is nothing to do here without international cooperation, for for example, both fentanyl components and ready-to-eat products come from abroad. There are difficult moments here. We are doing very well with our countries in the region, our European Union partners. At the end of last year, I had a meeting with the heads of the U.S. drug agency in Washington. We are, by the way, in case you don't know, two countries in the world where the number of fentanyl deaths compared to the number of inhabitants is the same, more or less. We take as a basis that 150 people die of fentanyl overdose in America almost every day, and there are so many such cases in Estonia every year. We're about 300 times the difference, something like that. That's when it turns out it's more or less the same. Where's all this coming from? Fentanyl precursors come largely from China. Fentanyl is actually a medicinal substance. The United States is also politically very hard on China, precisely in order for China to take stronger control of the production of fentanyl and its precursors. But this process, of course, requires serious cooperation with Russia, which unfortunately is missing today. There is, of course, a new trend that we see both in Estonia and in our relations with our American colleagues, and that needs to be taken into account. I also demand that our PBA be reprofiled. Whether we're talking about Colombian drug cartels or our amphetamine producers a few years ago, five, six, ten or twenty years ago, they were typical criminal networks with manufacturers, suppliers and window makers at the border, for example. Now one of the largest distributors of fentanyl has been detained in America. He had a contract with a postal company, a computer, an Internet account, and a bitcoin account, and he was able to supply the entire U.S. territory. We are looking at the last major arrests in Estonia. We can also say that this is about electronic money, international communication and exactly the provision of postal services. So international cooperation is the foundation of everything here. Well, I'm running out of time. Question 4: "How do you estimate that the turnover of the Estonian drug market could be 200 million euros? ' You know, there's a lot of speculation here. I certainly do not believe that this would be 200 million euros in Estonia, because the Estonian market would have 200 million euros of criminal money and its investment would be noticeable. It wouldn't be hidden, as they say. Let's take our bigger fentanyl dealers of the past, as they say. What did they get caught with? They got caught with huge investments of millions, they stood out right away. So I wouldn't want to go along with that. Unfortunately, no one has scientifically assessed this; this assessment remains highly hypothetical. Question 5: "How effective is the cost of prevention and treatment to reduce social harm associated with drugs? This is also the case from the point of view of cooperation between local authorities and the state (the needle change points and local government cooperation in the areas where drug users are most likely). ' Now I'm almost out of time. But let's just say that the local government is one of the partners here. He is not responsible for this activity. The main player is the state and also the NPOs, which have assumed certain obligations. But I dare say that the cost of providing harm reduction services per person per year is nearly 18 times lower than the cost of HIV medicines alone per person per year and four times lower than the cost of medicines and other costs in total. What am I saying? They're directly addicted. Prevention in this area is a colossal plus. The municipality, as a partner, is a partner here to find, for example, places where the syringe exchange point works, places where these people can be counseled, as they say, and to move towards another life, a better or a new approach to life. But the local government doesn't have that kind of responsibility here.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U79	Thank you, Minister. Time's up. If there is something left unsaid, I would remind you that we will not limit time in answering questions. Questions for the Minister. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U80	We had one more question about the question. This was the case: how has the riddle of drug packs appearing at the end of last year on Lohusalu Beach been resolved? Can you talk about it, have we got anything?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U81	Yeah, it's definitely, you know, a historical event. Today, I can tell you that we have worked with all the countries in the Baltic Sea region, all their law enforcement agencies, including even the office of the US DEA or the drug agency Copenhagen, on this particular event or crime case, and that we have received data on the movements of ships during a period of interest to us. It is very likely to be said that this is not a substance intended for the Estonian market. Firstly, this amount is too high and the consumption of cocaine in Estonia is not so popular. For what reason someone threw it off the ship, it's hard to say today. But since drugs have their own DNA, they're being profiled, I can tell you that we've found connections with cocaine cargo confiscated in South America. You can also say to the same subject that we remember the story of the so-called cog wheel years ago when it was 40 kilos of cocaine. This, too, was not meant for the Estonian market, but was moving towards the northern capital of our eastern neighbour. There are different quantities and the number of cocaine users than in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U82	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U83	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! We have one small, quite marginal party that promotes the legalisation of cannabis or, at the very least, the legalisation of curative cannabis. During the last elections, weed leaves fell from the sky nicely behind their backs in the commercial they were distributing. How do you feel about that? Is this healer something like a healer vodka? Can I talk to you about some kind of therapeutic fentanyl? What's your position?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U84	Listening to my cough, you might think maybe I could use it. But my position, which I have also said publicly, is certainly that I will not tolerate the so-called legalisation of any new substance of pleasure if we have such problems with the old ones. You can't count on what the so-called experts think we're bringing a thinner drug to the market, so everyone gets over it from fentanyl. It's the other way around. If you ask the Police and Border Guard for the profile of a drug user, for example, it turns out that he has started cannabis, that the next step is usually amphetamine or ecstasy, and that at one point he is a fentanyl cuddle. What am I saying? The same weed, no matter what we call it, a healer or whatever it is, has certain active substances that are used in medicine. This has been proven, but it is neither a justification nor a justification for bringing it, as they say, to the free market. There are different cannabis oils and all other things that can also be used as painkillers in humans because of the same active substance. But those people who promote it speak not so much for this purpose, but for another purpose: that our parks may have more places where such a sweet breeze blows.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U85	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U86	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, Some time ago, I spent the day in the Võru Police Department as a work shelter. The youth police there were very distressed by underage addicts, though at the time they were addicted to alcohol. Their assessment was that they have not found services intended specifically for the treatment of underage addicts. I also asked the Minister for Health and Labour about this, but I am interested in your opinion. How do you assess whether minors' addiction treatment is available in Estonia or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U87	Thank you. In fact, the addiction treatment itself is available, but the link to reach it is very foggy. I know this problem very well. Since the beginning of this year, we have an information line running, and I can't tell you whether he's already working in Tallinn, or whether he's about to start working right now, which means that he or she is underage or underage. Often, the first action must simply be the cleansing of the human body, as they say. After that there is psychological counselling and then according to the psychologist or psychiatrist's opinion either outpatient or inpatient treatment. As I said, the effectiveness of inpatient treatment is high when it comes to addiction. Well, less than half, but they think it's big. This is much more effective than outpatient treatment, which often works for a time and then a person falls back into the swamp. So once we launch this pilot project, the police can use it here in the Harju region, we want to move on to the Ida-Viru region, where these problems are the biggest. But I feel and understand the importance of your question very well, exactly as well. I stress that addictive treatment exists, there is no such thing as an interrelationship on how to get to it. The policeman doesn't have enough time in his day-to-day business now to take Google off and google where that person could go. There must be a system in the country that works, and we are moving towards it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U88	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U89	Mr. President! Mr. Minister! According to the press, we have drugs one or two phone calls away. Why are the police so powerless to fight this thing? Secondly, I just wanted to say that today I suggest you watch "The Moon Investigator." It's a drug show.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U90	Thank you. I think I'll keep the preferences of my programmes or hostesses to myself. But I certainly want to say that you are right in the same way, on the other hand I dare say very clearly that I should not be ashamed of how many different substances have been confiscated from the streets in Estonia over the last few years and how much this problem has been dealt with. Look, the thing is, this phone call distance is a simple construction. Similarly, the President of the United States is one or two phone calls away. I'm starting to think now, maybe I can get it. Sure, I don't know if he's picking up. But what I'm trying to say is that there is definitely a very big and serious process of proof. It is a very expensive process, and the police do so with all their resources. Once again, I stress: drug addiction is not destroyed by police confiscation and operations; drug addiction is a social disease. That's right. We can take away drugs all over the world, but still something's coming out of somewhere, because if there's demand, there's an offer. One of the most important objectives of police and border guards is to reduce this offer on the street so that there is no such thing as simply to come and share drugs that have happened from time to time in some nightclub. When my predecessor Ken-Marti Vaher was here a few years ago, my predecessor Ken-Marti Vaher, I sat behind a few lines and we argued about this, just then, for example, the street drug groups of the Tallinn police were born, who raided their first nightclubs in the centre of Tallinn and captured dozens of drug dealers. Since then, the subject has become calmer. But the police aren't a miracle weapon.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U91	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U92	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I'll continue in the same place. You said drug addiction was a social illness. I very much agree with this, but the reality is that in Estonia, a drug addict is a criminal, but there are countries, such as Portugal and Switzerland, who have tried to break this vicious circle, this link between drug addiction and crime, and it has produced very good results. As far as fentanyl deaths are concerned, Portugal is at the top because they are not there, unlike Estonia, which is the first on the second end of the table. Are you familiar with the practice of these countries in trying to break the link between drug addiction and crime, and are there any such developments in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U93	Thank you. Firstly, I say that fentanyl is only the concern of Estonia, the United States of America and, a little bit, Sweden and the Netherlands. This has never been a problem in Portugal. In Estonia, let's say, during the period of occupation, there was such a very strong community of heroin users. Fentanyl is, after all, a technical source of heroin, as they say, or a technical agent. I'm not a chemist. I'm not exactly a chemist. This substance took over the market, and there hasn't been much of it in Portugal. But I totally agree with you. By the way, more and more both the police and the prosecutor's office in such misdemeanours, when drugs are for their own use, do not initiate misdemeanour proceedings, but impose other obligations, such as medical treatment. The last time in the Committee on Drugs Prevention, we also made it very clear that we are reviewing our laws. I agree that the drug addict who is using isn't a criminal, he's sick. I told Mrs. Tiidu earlier, who said that 800 people are in prison for drug crimes, that most of them, of course, are people who have committed a number of other crimes alongside drug crimes, one thing has led to another, and the penal code continues to be harsh. So in short, I think this is one way. We need to introduce more different treatment programmes in our legal system as an alternative to sanctions, so that not so much punishing a person, but if he has any desire to do so, direct him to a rehabilitation programme in order to bring him out of this situation. But this requires both the will of the legislator and the general political will, because it is often feared that drugs are now allowed to be decriminalised. No, they are not allowed, there are alternative methods, treatment methods, just in addition to penalties. It's a serious discussion, but I think we're on our way.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U94	Ants Laaneots, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U95	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! If we compare European countries from the point of view of drug addiction, practice shows that Estonia is in a situation, the worst, that is, worse, than most of these countries. I think the Ministry of the Interior has certainly analysed the reasons for this situation in Estonia in a complex way. Does the Home Office have a strategic document, a program, or a plan to come out of this? What should be done to do that? It must involve the whole of society. One ministry alone does nothing, or the profession does nothing.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U96	Thank you. I talked about it for a long time before. There is an official policy paper, a White Paper on drug policy, which is quite operational and which we review from time to time. There is the Government of the Republic Committee on Drugs, which gathered a month ago, just to review how we are going to meet the new budget and what strategic changes are needed, for example, in extending the choice of treatment procedures. But one thing I definitely want to say is that there is a poor number of drug deaths in Estonia, because we have fentanyl. That's our problem. On other issues, when we talk about the extent of lighter drug use, I would be a little more restrained if we compared ourselves with other European countries. We are covered by fentanyl deaths, which are our misery and misery. This is where police work and international cooperation are needed, as well as getting those people out of this situation who want to get out of it. To this end, we will also receive additional funds together with the Ministry of Social Affairs for the next funding period.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U97	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U98	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! Malevolent people spread rumors that seized drugs would still re-enter the market and go to treat these patients. Are you denying this claim and saying that they are about to be destroyed? How are they gonna be dealt with, what happens to them?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U99	As a filmwriter, I say that this would be a pretty good film scenario issue, but as a realist, I say that we have very, very good handling of evidence in Estonia and the drugs are being destroyed. Two things are important for drugs. After the trial is over, I'm sure they'll be destroyed. Some very small quantity is left in sample copies. What for? To determine their DNA or, let's say, their origin. If, for example, today we took fentanyl away from citizen X, this drug will be destroyed, but a small amount remains, and if we take fentanyl away from citizen Y the next time, we can put these things together, so aha, it's the same producer. So we have another chance to go, as they say, along this chain. But this mess, I'm sure I can assure you, it's not like they're moving back from somewhere in the EKEI repository. You can, of course, ask the Minister of Justice because the Estonian Forensic Institute is in his jurisdiction, but as far as I know, there is no problem there.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U100	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U101	Thank you. Like you said, before fentanyl, there's weed, but before weed, there's alcohol and smoke. At our meeting, the chief of police said that as much alcohol consumption among young people will be replaced by cannabis. Maybe it's a simplification. But have you ever thought that such a very rigid alcohol policy, one of which, according to the Conjuncture Institute, is that young people have a strong attraction to cheap Latvian alcohol, but as a complex, there are no additional problems in young people's drug use?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U102	You know, my feeling is one thing. It's a question that scientists should investigate. In fact, as far as I can remember, for example, from my police days when I was communicating with drug addicts, the way someone started was so personal: someone started with beer, someone started with some kind of cipher in prison, someone started with weed or marijuana. I'm sure there's a danger. It cannot be ruled out that young people are drinking another villain rather than alcohol. The 'fashion' question of this matter could certainly be important here. As we know, regardless of alcohol policy, cannabis waves in most European countries have gone through a great deal of youth pop culture, they have retreated, and then they have come again. I think that the role of the state is, above all, prevention, warning, information. I've been to schools myself to talk a lot about it. Always the best thing to do is show a series of pictures that a person is starting to smoke weed quietly and what he looks like in the end, and that time has been five or six years. Then they come up and ask if that's the way it is. I'll say that's how it is, you just live your life in fast-forward mode.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U103	Thank you, Minister of the Interior Andres Anvelt! The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. I'm opening negotiations, no calls. We wish the Minister an early recovery!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U104	The following question is submitted by Yoko Alender, Jürgen Ligi, Lauri Luik, Ants Laaneots, Urmas Kruuse, Madis Milling, Meelis Mälberg, Arto Aas, Maris Lauri, Jüri Jaanson, Toomas Kivimägi, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Liina Kersna, Anne Sulling, Hanno Pevkur, Remo Holsmer, Laine Randjärv, Johannes Kert, Kristen Michal, Heidy Purga, Aivar Sõerd and Urve Tiidus. On behalf of the heirs, Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U105	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We present an inquiry into the establishment of the Narva State Gymnasium and experiments in the educational organisation of Russian-language children. After an inquiry, which took place on 22 February, we have learned from the media that some agreements have been signed by the Minister. So I will focus here on a few issues and I hope that the Minister will enlighten them too. On 24 May 2016, Jürgen Ligi, then Minister of Education and Science, and the Mayor of Narva, Tarmo Tammiste, signed an agreement expressing their determination to establish two state gymnasiums in the city of Narva. The establishment of state secondary schools will allow the state to improve student learning conditions in the city of Narva with the support of investments, thus allowing the city to invest more in improving the learning environment in primary schools. In 2016, two state secondary schools in Narva were planned with a total of 900 study places. The agreement was that by the time the municipality started its activities, general education schools would be reorganized into primary schools and by 2021 there would be two state secondary schools in Narva. It has been worrying to hear about experiments led by the Centre Party in the educational organization of the capital. The Prime Minister spoke of the need to unite communities in the celebrations of the anniversary of the Republic, but the actions of his party associates have contradicted his words. In Tallinn, Russian schools were given indiscriminately money under the label to improve the effectiveness of Estonian language learning, in a way that lacks any evidence base and purpose. The Centre Party does not seem to be in favour of the main, as suggested by specialists, if not the only way to unite communities into a common Estonian education system, but rather prefers replacement activities that allow the unacceptable situation to continue and deepen. As a result, we had the following questions for the Minister. We asked for clarification as to why the process of establishing the state secondary school in Narva seems to have been suspended by the current government. Is the government led by the Centre Party and the Minister of Education opposed to the reform of the school network and equal opportunities for Estonian children and young people in education? Also, does the Minister of Education support party-companies experiments in Tallinn, which, in our opinion, restore inequality and divisions in Estonian society through education? Do developments in the education organisation of both Narva and Tallinn result from the fact that the Centre Party, among other things, does not support the transition to a unified education system in Estonia recommended in the Human Development Report last year? Does the Minister support a transition that would ensure equal opportunities for all Estonian children in a unified Estonian education system?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U106	An inquiry must be answered by the Minister of Education and Science, Mailis Repsil. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U107	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Inquiries! I will give the answers to the questions you have asked. Since the questions were already read out by the representative of the heirs, it makes it easier for me to answer. First of all, as far as the Narva Upper Secondary School is concerned, the process of establishing the Narva State Upper Secondary School has not been suspended and has not even stopped. Since 2016, the Ministry and the City of Narva have been negotiating forcefully to find the most suitable conditions for the establishment of state secondary school. As you have already mentioned, there has been an agreement and a detailed agreement in all circumstances today. In the city of Narva, the 900 state secondary schools with study places will start working on 1 September 2022. Detailed planning of the location of the state secondary school is currently underway, and preparations for the architectural competition will be launched in March. Of course, neither I nor the Government of the Republic oppose the reform of the school network, which would give children and young people equal opportunities in education. The reform of the school network is ongoing and changes to the Basic School and Upper Secondary Schools Act will help to improve equal opportunities, for example a significant increase in the funding of support professionals. In addition, support measures have been launched to promote inclusive education and improve learning conditions for pupils with special needs. The second question is about Tallinn. Of course, I support any change that will provide evidence-based information for further decision. Today, however, there are no evidence-based examples to suggest that your so-called experiment would somehow produce inequalities or gaps in society. The objective is clear: Estonian-language upper secondary school education, motivation and support for schools during the transition to Estonian-language education. Through better language skills, we also create prerequisites for reducing inequalities and better coping with people. Money is not allocated indiscriminately, but on the basis of sound principles to schools, who are also expected to achieve the agreed results. Since we have discussed this issue here before, I will now save it for later. The third question is about the education organisation of Narva and Tallinn. It became unclear on the basis of which you claim that the decisions made in Narva and Tallinn do not support the transition to a unified education system. In my opinion, there is no contradiction. Some of Narva's educational arrangements were made before the current reign of the government. The signature of the Minister of Education and Science Jürgen Ligi is an agreement that would have established two distinctive state secondary schools in Narva. It has now been agreed with Narva that there will be a single state secondary school. The so-called experiment in Tallinn has been agreed in the programme of action of the Government of the Republic, which sets out the objective of achieving the C1 level of proficiency in the Estonian language of graduates in six years. Question 4: "As your minister, do you support the transition to a common education system in Estonia that guarantees equal opportunities for all Estonian children? ' If you are referring to a strong education system based on Estonian language skills and convergence schools, I naturally support the fact that all children in Estonia have equal opportunities in terms of both learning and finding a job. Let's look at these schools that are already born today. In addition to Jõhvi and Valga schools, which are state secondary schools and where students with Estonian and Russian language of instruction will study together, the school will also be in Kohtla-Järve, where students with Estonian and Russian language of instruction will be studying together, and so will be in Narva. I don't think there's any more questions in the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U108	Questions for the Minister. Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U109	Thank you. Good minister! I'm sorry your answer was so cocky. Narva is a special case, we both know that. The question is whether education in Estonian will live there or whether it will swallow it in Russian. There was a problem at the time. But now the other side. You are saying that nothing has stopped, there has been strong progress. How could it have been so powerful? The school will come later, and you will make a very vigorous ceremony just like we did two years ago, just as you will perform there and solemnly sign a new treaty to make it a double as if it weren't. What did you do for the whole year and a half? What was that all about? Do you still admit that he was standing a little bit, or are you ever going to disprove it again? What did you do for a year and a half in Narva, which you argued about?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U110	Thank you, good questioner! Maybe I'll remind you how state high schools are born. First of all, partners, state and local government agree, within the framework of a good intentions agreement, to establish a state secondary school. Then work begins. As the good questioner probably remembers, we have a school network office in the country, we have people who deal with public property, land issues, also possible detailed plans, there are a number of specialists in the Ministry of Education and Research who analyse the school network as well as language issues. This is exactly what specialists from the Ministry of Education and Research have gone to Narva to deal with, including looking at possible locations in the school. As the good questioner probably knows, there were several places where Narva could have built a state gymnasium. I know at least four, but there may have been more. Specialists visited the site and looked at the best possible location, the advantages and disadvantages of locations, the possibilities of interest, how the transport issue would be resolved, the obstacles to possible detailed planning, the detailed plan needed, the changes to the school network, and the size of the school to be built. These discussions, which have taken place in the Ministry over any state gymnasium, are a whole series. Once these things have been agreed, the good intentions cooperation agreement document already spells out exactly what the volumes, where this school will come from, what the time perspective, when detailed plans and architectural competitions will be announced and when the school will be opened. This is the system for setting up state secondary schools. Narva is no exception, a very similar process is currently taking place in Saaremaa in Kuressaare, Lääne-Virumaa in Rakvere and Ida-Virumaa in Kohtla-Järve. Rae or Saue are in expectation of a similar process. So speaking of good intentions, we want to do a state high school together. It will be agreed where it will be located, how large the building will be built and when the doors will be opened. This means that the State will also assume financial obligations. In the meantime, specialists are working through all kinds of scenarios. I have no reason to believe that the Ministry of Education and Research has any desire to delay, even more so, a good questioner knows that these are euro measures with a final deadline of 2023, otherwise the money will have to be repaid. So this time pressure is there all the time, and no one wants to delay. On the contrary, this must be done within a rather harsh time frame.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U111	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U112	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister! The media have given the impression that the planned Narva state gymnasium, where children with Estonian and Russian native languages will be studying together, has not completely resolved the issues related to the language of instruction. What's the problem here? Is there a chance that teaching will take place there in both Estonian and Russian? What are the alternatives that are considered in the first place?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U113	Thank you. That's a good question. At the moment, the best knowledge of the Ministry of Education and Research is that on 1 September 2022 the aim is to open a state gymnasium where both Estonian-language education and participative (60:40) Russian-language education will take place. This is simply due to the specific nature of the region. What will be the distribution between education in Estonian and that in Russian, I would not say today. As the questioner probably knows, substantial work with state secondary schools has taken place in such a way that, after a more precise cooperation agreement has been concluded, a director is elected for the state secondary school. This process has usually taken place at least a year before, but sometimes longer, for example two years before the actual opening of the doors of this school. The director can also, in essence, consider what will be the subjects, which electives and who will be cooperating with. It has already been discussed in Narva that it will be very closely associated with the University of Tartu Narva College, possibly also with vocational training institutions and employers, for example, in organising traineeships. Different solutions have been discussed, but more detailed work will certainly remain at the level of the headmaster. The topic of the Estonian upper secondary school is very serious. Jürgen Ligi has already mentioned this, it is indeed a very sensitive issue. This is also the reason why the country has today offered the city of Narva the possibility that we will not record that all upper secondary schools will close in 2022 if this one state secondary school occurs. We want to give time to the Estonian community there to examine calmly whether the state gymnasium in Estonian will come to that common state gymnasium family or whether it is definitely intended to be kept as a separate school. Of course, it is useful to bring him more and more forcefully to the state gymnasium, with its advantages, but we also understand the specific characteristics of the local community. So the language issue in upper secondary school is not unsolved, in any case there will also be education in Estonian, because these children, we hope, are more and more, who want to study in Estonian right now, but it is clear that we are also offering version 60:40 there today.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U114	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U115	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I remember the time when the cabinet decided to switch to the state gymnasium system. The transport and accommodation of students was an integral part of this plan. Now in county centers of state secondary schools I see, point one, that in these students studying less students than was meant to be, they were meant to be significantly larger schools than they are now. School leaders say that the problem is with children in rural areas, because families lack confidence in how they can cope at the county centre. The state upper secondary schools themselves are excellent and the school environment is excellent, but how have these supporting services become operational? How do you feel?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U116	Thank you for a very good question. Indeed, when the establishment of state secondary schools was started, the broader topic of dormitories and study grants arose immediately and was very topical. This has been resolved today, let's say, on a region-by-region basis. The accommodation of children who need it is more local, say, private accommodation. The state supports this and housing applications are submitted through the school. So it cannot be said that the country would not have met. If the family needs it, they'll find it. A system has been put in place for this purpose. But yes, I have to tell you, good questioner, that I support this, so that we can come seriously to this topic if this round of upper secondary schooling gets relatively in place across Estonia. It's clear today that all the counties are coming with it. We should come up with a broader subject of study grants. What are the knots here? They're very different, depending on the county center. There are county centres where there are no dormitories, but dormitories are more common. The reason why the state has not strongly said that yes, we are going to build new dormitories is that the construction of these buildings tends to be a problem. At first, everyone really wants the things we build, but later they tend to be half empty. This is the case with their student homes, they have been built in regions and dorms have been expanded, but maybe later this need has not been so great. There are pros and cons here. But there may be other reasons why the dormitories have probably not been so interested today. When we go to state secondary schools, you ask for ten or seven places, you don't know exactly how many children there are. Today, however, most children stay in upper secondary school near their home. The answer is not that there is no way to find a place with quite good support, but that it is safer and easier for the student to stay in a high school near home. I believe that the broader issue of student benefits is very justified and should come to this. Do we need to build dorms? There is more caution in terms of public investment.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U117	Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U118	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I, of course, express the hope that this state gymnasium will come and that we will overall overcome the segregation that exists in the Estonian education system. But we are still surprised by the situation. When the current government came to power, Mikhail Kõlvart, then assistant mayor of Tallinn, gave an interview to Interfax, where he said about how the government of the Central Party was prepared to soften the language requirements in Russian upper secondary schools. What about now, looking back a year and a half? Have you softened what your position is and what is the impact of Mr Kõlvarti's statements on our education policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U119	Thank you for a very good question. Has anything fundamentally changed in our language policy today? No, it's not. The discussion around the national language has been very unambiguous that everyone understands the need for it. The interest in learning the official language is very significant among young people, but we must of course say that sometimes the results of language learning have not been as expected. The national language skills of the gymnasts, which can be seen from the results of the final exam of Estonian, have improved considerably. The gymnastics have shown very good results. Today, the results are generally at B2 level and, if analysed, you can say that already today a clear majority of schools will pass the exam at C1 level. You can see that from the points you've reached. There's a clear shortage in middle school. Young people themselves say that if they enter upper secondary school today, their previous studies in Estonian at primary school have been modest. I just went to other areas of Ida-Viru County in addition to Narva last week. It has to be said that young people are very frank about this, they say that they have problems with it. There are a lot of good upper secondary schools in Ida-Virumaa, where in three years the students are taught quite properly to speak Estonian, but the students are very sad that language learning remained modest in primary school. The results of the comprehensive school finals have rather gone back. That's where we have a serious problem. So there is no way to see changes in language learning or goals. The results of the state examinations show interest on the one hand, but on the other, we have the challenges that we should definitely improve language learning in comprehensive school. The younger the language training is started and the sooner it will be strengthened, the better. We also need to think more and analyse why it is that today, however, we have a requirement in early childhood education that Estonian is already taught in kindergarten, that all primary schools also teach Estonian, but the results have gone backwards over the last ten years.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U120	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U121	I'll take it right from here. It's okay to analyze. I think that the Human Development Report also referred to its proposal for a common Estonian education system, which still means that we cannot have a system of education that is divided on the basis of the language of instruction. We already have it from pre-school education, Russian kindergarten, Estonian kindergarten, then Russian school, Estonian school. This is not how we achieve these results. You eluded the answer. I mean, you said that you supported your party buddies' experiments in Tallinn, but at the same time, as a minister, you regret that language learning starts so late and in kindergartens, it is not enough. Please state clearly once more whether you support the transition to a common education system where you will be studying in Estonian from kindergarten, while preserving the opportunity for children with a second mother tongue to learn their mother tongue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U122	I wouldn't talk about that regret and not regret. Today, Estonian language education begins in three years. Anyone who knows a little about the development of a child also knows that there is nothing to regret that it does not begin until the age of three. We have agreed on this by law many years ago; it is as if a lot of work has been done here. The number of teachers in Estonian is also impressive. In fact, we actually have Estonian language learning working, it is not the case that there is no language learning. The number of immersion classes and immersion groups has also increased considerably. Do I support the fact that together we should find either the possibilities of immersion or bilateral immersion and even more support and convince parents to take this courageous step and choose for their children a group of Estonian-language kindergartens or a language immersion programme? Yes, I am very supportive of all this. However, if the content of your question is whether I think there is sufficient willingness in society today to ban municipal or state schools that work 40% or less in another language, then I will say that probably the first thing we have to take into account is how much it all extends to the private market. The second thing we have to take into account when it comes to banning is whether we really guarantee everyone education in this case, say, in the social sense, we have to be careful here. My personal preference is rather a two-sided immersion. We need to have real teachers who can teach properly in that language. I believe that a good questioner understands that language immersion programmes have not spread so strongly today in kindergarten for another reason. We have therefore not had enough teachers who would like to work with such a difficult program. So the question today is not very much whether parents of different national backgrounds, whose children go to the Russian group, would like their children to learn Estonian. They have a great desire for this. Are they all ready today to support their children on their way to school? I think schools still have a lot of work to do. Now for research. I wouldn't say there's too many. There's a lot of research going on in our education system. As a result of analyses, we have changed a lot in education policy when we look at strategic goals. I believe that universities can give very clear messages. There are very clear messages and proposals in the same human development report you are referring to. I know that the Ministry of Education and Research and its departments are looking very closely at such studies and are also doing corrective work. If we look back at the processes that have taken place in the Republic of Estonia in the last almost 30 years, we can see that education has been very, very conservative on the one hand, but we have also changed all along. I am absolutely convinced that the percentages of and support for education in Estonian, i.e. in the national language, will increase. For example, let's look at kindergarten groups how many children with different language backgrounds are attending the Estonian-language kindergarten group today. We can see that this number is growing and growing strongly. The language immersion school is also very popular in the city of Narva. So I'm interested. We must expand these opportunities together.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U123	Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U124	Thank you. Madam Minister, a few specific questions. As far as I can remember, the law clearly states that the school's language of instruction is Estonian. There are no exceptions to 40: 60 etc. Please explain this! That's another thing. This agreement, which I saw, and which was signed with the city at one time, provided that there would be a single educational institution that would provide upper secondary school education. Has anything changed? What this means is that Estonian parents will have time to think whether they want their children to be separate or not. If the decision is taken that there will be one upper secondary school, one state secondary school, then there will be one upper secondary school. If there is also an Estonian upper secondary school, the decision must include two upper secondary schools. Please specify these things!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U125	Thank you. First of all, as far as the other side of the question is concerned, either one upper secondary school or two upper secondary schools. The Ministry of Education and Research, the Government of the Republic and the local government of Narva, has agreed that the state is committed to building one state gymnasium for 900 students. However, it is still agreed that Narva will have to close at least 80% of her upper secondary school schools and turn them into primary schools by the time it opens. There's a 20% slouch left there. The main reason has been that the city of Narva is now very clearly, perhaps throughout the year that the first questioner asked about, expressed his wish for a high school in Narva. It would be easier for everyone to understand. But since the state has a very clear concern about it, there is a mutually agreed obligation to close secondary schools to at least 80%. This 20% hit we have left to other local governments as well. The statement I said meant we're giving time. As far as the language of instruction is concerned, we are still in a situation where the state, by setting up state secondary schools, clearly saw the aim of upper secondary school education in Estonian as a goal, but the examples are present today in both Jõhvi and Valga, in two state secondary schools already functioning, where part of the training takes place according to system 60: 40, i.e. some subjects are studied in Russian, most of the study takes place in Estonian. It is likely that the same model will be followed by a school in Narva, which will be opened in 2022. The number of children ready to study in Estonian is shown by the time, but interest is increasing in Jõhvi year after year, for example. At first, more Russian subjects are taken, but already in the second or third year, young people already choose more Estonian subjects. As you know, upper secondary school education is course-based and in the third year these courses are mostly just in Estonian.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U126	Enn Meri.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U127	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister! I'm a little embarrassed because you got ahead of my question and already answered. It was about teaching Estonian in kindergartens. Thank you. I already got the answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U128	Thank you. Nice to meet you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U129	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U130	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! Last week, the political groups were dealt with, and today, in the Committee on Legal Affairs, we dealt with the Director-General of the Defence Police Board once again for confirmation of his position. His message was that he said that there were different reactions in different political groups, that it was very important for Estonia to have the entire education system in the state language as a matter of urgency. What is your comment on the words of the Director-General of the Defence Police Department, who has already been reinstated?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U131	Thank you. The Defence Police also deal with educational institutions as part of their work, because, let's say, any Russian policy is very much targeted at young people today, with both interest and formal education in mind, and, as you saw in the Yearbook, also teachers. So the defense police have a clear focus on this issue. It is not so much an education system on a wider scale that concerns them, but, let us say, certain focus groups through which they are influenced. It is important to know which groups are easier to influence. There is concern about how many of these young people are actually involved in events in different places, where perhaps the young person himself has no choice. Well, I guess there's been some more pernicious examples in the media. I have not had the honour of hearing from the Defence Police quite such an approach as to propose what the education system could be, but yes, certain concerns are regularly brought to their attention. In this sense, our partnership is on a good level. Does the Ministry of Education and Research therefore monitor the situation? Of course, we take all the information provided by the defense police very seriously. We have management members who are working on this on a regular basis, not only at the Minister's level, but also at the Chancellor's level, and who are analysing these issues. Do we have the ability to deal with this more vigorously today? After all, we also have this experience and an example in state secondary schools of how quickly young people react. Or even in a vocational education and training system. I just went to Pärnu, where we had a very thorough conversation. There is a Russian-language comprehensive school where young people come to a vocational education institution and study there in Estonian. So there are examples from one region to another. This transition from Russian to Estonian-language learning shows that if learning in primary school, not to mention kindergarten, is slow, then the work that has to be done at higher school levels is very, very large. It often takes more than a few years, and young people still feel insecure when they enter the labour market. So in any case, when we talk about the fact that these schools only work in Estonian, that they work with a better methodology, the concern is justified. In fact, at the upper secondary school level and at the vocational education level, education is already in quite a large percentage in Estonian and the university is only in Estonian or, rather, in part, in English. Do these young people have an equal launch platform today? This unfortunately varies very clearly from school to school. So there's work to be done here.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U132	Thank you very much, Minister. No more questions right now. I'm opening negotiations. Please, Jürgen Ligi, on behalf of the inquisitors!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U133	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have to admit, I find it awfully difficult to listen to the Minister of Education. It is his custom to speak the matter to death and bypass the heart of the question. Why am I scared, because politicians do it by themselves? The reason is because of the bureaucrat's speech. Each sentence contains the word 'today', which gives the impression that a person is talking about a lot of things and showing his great knowledge and also making such a leap of promise that he has great plans. Some examples I tried to write down. 'Today starts at three. " What does this phrase actually mean in grammatical terms? 'Today it's been several years... ' 'Today has not moved vigorously. ' What's the last one? 'Today the launch platform is not the same. 'What do you mean by 'today'? I'm actually asking, it's kind of an attitude indicator that I'm talking you to death. I'm saying something, but all I'm really talking about is working, but there's no plan. I have told the Minister to ask him to try to get rid of this word so that we can focus on the content. There is no need to deepen the impression all the time that there is nothing to say. There is a present form, there is a 'now', different ages, but 'today' is always wrong, especially if there are five times in every sentence. Every sentence! We have inquiries today on two topics: the Narva Gymnasium and the future of Estonian-language learning. And just the attitude of me talking you and the subject to death was dominant. I did sign the contract for Narva High School two years ago. At the time of the inquiry, I did not yet know that the minister did exactly the same ceremony a week ago and produced such news that it was agreed that Narva would attend the state gymnasium. It's like the world's starting with "today" for me, so that's what we decided. If the Centre Party signs a contract with the Centre Party, it's more of a propaganda event. But you could have politely said there were some kind of glitches. We actually wanted to know what it was all about, which resulted in a year of stretching, that this Narva gymnasium would come at least a year later. The news didn't work out, nor did it come out of today's report. There is no need to tell us about Narva what a complicated process the establishment of state secondary school is always, because it is always like this, and we knew it in 2016. If there were disputes about the language of instruction and the places of study, you could say all that. Sometimes it's late, but it's actually my impression that Mailis Reps is late. Paide had to open the school this autumn, now it's just a black hole because Kersti Sarapuu wanted to. The school is three times more expensive according to the budget, almost half as much and the opening is delayed for at least two years. It really bothers me very much when a new minister comes along and just starts to go about things politically, without even trying to put forward arguments. It really does, because it's my job, and I'm keeping my fingers crossed at these schools. It's not just that my school or your school, it's a job that's not done, it's not worth pushing back, there was an argumented plan, and there's no point in rethinking it. Rae was similarly signed, everyone was very happy, this time the Reform Party and Reform Party signed, and everyone was very happy. Now they say the money ran out. But Paides gets three times more expensive at the same time. What's the logic? The promise that maybe Raele's school was gonna come back a month or two ago. Maybe it's still planned. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U134	Today is exactly the day when you can devote at least eight minutes to this subject. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U135	Thank you. The second topic in question is Tallinn's experiment. We received so much reply that the Centre Party still does not like this talk of education in Estonian. There are old truths about whether or not language skills have improved, how there are problems in upper secondary school, a little late with this transition, but the attitude to start earlier is not. At best, there is talk of a bilateral immersion. I think we could talk about one-sided at a time, because the problem of the national language is on one side, and if there is a shortage of resources, this issue could be focused and not in the direction that Estonians can speak more Russian, although, if both are successful, it is good. After all, in middle school, skills are also a result of starting a little indifferent. There is not much going on in kindergarten; only 17% of children in Tallinn are claimed to receive immersion. Since everyone doesn't know if they're gonna get high school, the incentive in middle school is still too weak. I would like the conclusions of the Human Development Report and the change in attitudes in society to be reflected in the changed attitudes of the Minister of Education, and he would say that a common national education system is actually needed, it is necessary from kindergarten onwards, and we are planning it, we are agreeing, we are making a plan. But it is rather the case that even in this hall, even when it comes to pickling, it is always halfway through and, if possible, it goes to language learning, not to learning in one language or another, but to learning the language. It is, of course, bypassing the subject, because it is far from the point of view, it is about social networks, it is about the electorate of the Centre Party being in the middle of a poorer job, living in a poorer place, having poorer health and in Russian. These things are unfortunately linked to social networks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U136	Please, Yoko Alender!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U137	Good minister! Ladies and gentlemen, The previous speaker has already rejected the majority, but I also wanted to express my regret that there were so many contradictions in the Minister's speech. On the one hand, it was pointed out that there was not enough analysis, the following sentence proved that the analyses of the need to switch to a single education system are entirely there, referring to the Human Development Report. Similarly, the Minister repeatedly stressed in his speech that it was too late to learn the language in upper secondary school, on the other hand, he pointed out several times that what is being done today in kindergarten and comprehensive school is not enough. It was good to hear for the first time that we have now achieved a situation where there really is a great deal of these teachers and a great deal has been done for this, only for some reason today's statistics show that Russian-language children do not have equal opportunities in education, their future progress on the labour market today is not equal to the progress of children whose mother tongue is Estonian. When it comes to what the Minister is still planning to do to improve the situation, we did not hear any specific answers. Personally, I think that the Ministry of Education and Research could start with pilot projects, that children would be brought together in a school where education is in Estonian rather than studying Estonian, but studying Estonian, and then a specific plan could already be put in place for a transitional period, given regional differences in population composition. Today we talked about Narva and Ida-Viru County. Tallinn is certainly a very distinctive example; there is also the problem of new immigrants, which is also referred to by the Human Development Report. We ourselves are producing more segregation as a country, because a very large number of new immigrants arriving here today have Russian skills, so their children go to Russian school and often live in such areas, for example, in Tallinn, where the number of people with Russian native language is higher. More regrettablely, when I meet voters in Northern Tallinn, for example, I have already heard stories about how the Centre Party has such a scheme in Tallinn that certain parts of the city should be kept as such. Personally, I think that this is harmful to Estonia and the people of Estonia, and this must be brought to an end. This separation of communities is unacceptable, no matter which party cuts the profile here or what goals it pursues. All of our people must have equal opportunities for success and happiness. I continue to think that the transition to a unified education system, starting with early childhood education, going beyond primary school, etc., is our next major challenge. There's no time to wait. We've been doing this long enough, and I think society is ready for that, too. So let's get started. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U138	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U139	Ladies and gentlemen, It's been a real shame ever since I listened to the stupidity and the shit that the Reform Party was doing here. But with the Reform Party, they're foreign eaters. Now to the point. I am sometimes asked how so, you were the first number on the list of the Estonian Centre Party in Narva, received the highest number of votes, and you are currently in opposition. Exactly because of the question we are discussing here, I am in opposition. I have said this to my former friends in Narva and I will also say in this Chamber: curse all those who take away the opportunity of children to choose the form of education. You think you're doing good. There are currently seven educational establishments in Narva where you can receive upper secondary school education. Whoever wants and who is able to go to the Estonian gymnasium. Anyone who wants her to stop understanding her at home, puts her in a bathtub, it's in an old-town state school. It is possible to study in a language lyceum, it is a very good school, always among the first three or four in the ranking of Russian schools. A little weaker people also receive upper secondary school education, can continue teaching Estonian, can study and receive upper secondary school education. It's practically everyone's chance right now. In 2022, there will be a major in upper secondary school. There will be another side to it, as the Minister explained. Well, 20% is the reason why one is possible and I have no doubt that this is an Estonian gymnasium, because no one can resist Estonian parents. They want their children not to erupt, but to speak Estonian. They are categorically opposed to a mass study at this school... Well, I wouldn't even say mass, but if one or two of these students are in class, they're coming up with the seschos and trjopkas. The director is hired by the Ministry and you don't know who the minister is in 2022. Now I can at least understand why my colleagues in Narva changed their minds that way. I realized that last week, when the Director of the Special Branch visited us on Wednesday, he was introduced as the next headmaster of the Special Branch. When asked what were the most important things for Estonia's security, he first said that the educational problem, a common learning system. A person doesn't even understand that we have a common learning system, we have one curriculum, we have one curriculum, we have the same goals, we have the same study program and we have the same requirements. It's only a question of jond. These fucking Russians only have to learn in Estonian, that's how we make them the right people! Do what you want, the world is great, there are huge sources of information, but these smart kids will find their way. In my opinion, the question is what to do with about half of the current gymnasts. Basic school doesn't change, the day care centre won't change in the near future. There will be a director appointed by the Ministry, he will select teachers and half of Narva upper secondary schools teachers, it will also not disturb anyone there in Narva. That's it. Among them are those who best teach chemistry, physics, and mathematics. Then it's like every graduate can't go on studying. Can't, because according to the law, education is in Estonian. If this happens in Narva, I have no doubt that there is no other option, it will turn 100 percent into Estonian. If you don't speak the language, go long! Go to vocational school! You're only needed where you need hands, need you at the power plant, need you at the construction site, don't need you anywhere in the university. Know your place! In 1999, we had an interior minister in the group who explained to us that there would be a separate city in Narva in the future, such a small nest of pensioners and energetics, where about 30,000 people live, and no higher education or anything else is needed there. It was Tarmo Nature who told us that. It is sad to know that now everything is starting to follow this scenario, it is going down that road, there is one upper secondary school left, there is a state secondary school, and there is also an Estonian upper secondary school, that is clear. Even if we are dealing with hundreds of children now taking away the opportunity to receive upper secondary school education, we will cut him off from the future. That's why I'm in opposition in Narva. I understand these guys aren't going to be able to take it so seriously if they're going to take it so seriously. I only hope that Tallinn will succeed in destroying this plan. Anyway, it's like watching a ship sink that I've built myself, and I'm fucking sad.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U140	Martin Helme, from the line? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U141	Yes! Thank you. I'm not going to the remote. However, I do find, in reply to the previous speaker, that in Estonia everyone really needs to learn in Estonian and so it is. I am very pleased that colleagues from the Reform Party are concerned about all this. I just can't help but point out that they were in power for 17 years, people could be born during that time and go to 11th grade, but they didn't do the things that they're now demanding they should be done right away. I think this position is a little two-faced. But, of course, all education in Estonia must be in Estonian from start to finish.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U142	I will conclude the discussions and the debate on this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U143	The fifth item is the inquiry submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Martin Helme, Henn Põlleaasa, Mart Helme, Uno Kaskpeiti, Raivo Põldaru and Arno Silla on 20 March. On behalf of Martin Helme's heirs, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U144	Dear Deputy Speaker! Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Our concern is also Estonian, our concern is Estonian in higher education. Absolutely all Estonian universities violate the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, according to which § 6 says that the Estonian official language is Estonian. § 1 of the Language Act also states very clearly that the use of Estonian as the main language of communication in all areas of public life, including education, must be guaranteed in Estonia. Paragraph 22 (8) of the University Act states that the language of study of the university is Estonian. Thus, teaching and compulsory teaching materials at the university must be in Estonian and only the recommended material can be in a foreign language. In practice, unfortunately, the situation is absolutely different. Most teaching materials are in a foreign language and the protection of degrees is also intended to be transferred entirely to English, despite the fact that most of the people involved in protection are actually Estonians or Estonian-language people. We asked the Ministry for some statistics. 2017/18. In the academic year, Estonian public universities have 546 curricula in Bachelor's and Master's studies, 458 of which 84% have Estonian language of instruction, 85 curricula, or 15.5% have English language of instruction and 0.5% have Russian language of instruction. The percentage of study programmes in Estonian is 84% at the University of Tartu, 79% at Tallinn University of Technology and 85% at the University of Tallinn. When education was first released from foreign language education 100 years ago, with the birth of the Republic of Estonia, then, after regaining independence, in 100 years, we will move quickly again towards foreign language higher education. Even during the Soviet occupation, foreign authorities were not able to suppress higher education in Estonian as successfully as it has been done with our own hands in our own country. That is why we are asking a number of questions from the Minister of Education, who will undoubtedly read them out and answer us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U145	The five questions asked must be answered by the Minister for Education and Science, Mailis Reps. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U146	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The first question: "What are you going to do to prevent higher education institutions from violating the Constitution and other laws on the language of instruction? ' Universities of higher education do not violate the Constitution, the use of other teaching languages in higher education is not contrary to the Constitution. The Chancellery of the Chancellor of Justice has also expressed the same view. § 37 of the Constitution states that everyone has the right to receive instruction in Estonian. The following section of the Constitution, § 38, states that science and art and their teachings are free, meaning that universities and research institutions are autonomous within the limits prescribed by law. According to § 22 (8) of the University Act, the language of study of the university is Estonian, but the competence of the University Council is to decide on the use of other languages. The second question: 'How do you intend to ensure that Estonian students are always able to obtain all subjects and all materials in the national language? What steps do you intend to take so that students are not constantly provided with foreign language materials, even if there are sufficient national language materials? ' According to the learning outcomes described in the higher education standard, the student must be able to explain the problems of the profession orally and in writing and participate in professional discussions in a foreign language in addition to the language of instruction. To acquire a foreign language, you need to read, write, and speak in a foreign language. It is never possible to study all subjects and receive all materials only in Estonian. Higher education is based on a scientific approach and foreign language teaching materials should also be used to enable modern learning. We also want higher education institutions to teach the best experts in their field, which also means involving foreign teachers and foreign researchers. It is natural that they also carry out part of their studies. The Ministry of Education and Research has commissioned a study "Language of Study in Estonian Higher Education," one of the objectives of which is to assess the extent to which education actually takes place in the language of the curriculum and how other languages referred to by you are used in the learning process, including the provision of teaching materials in those languages. Question 3: "How and when does the state intend to arrange for the translation of educational materials into Estonian in specific disciplines where the relevant material is really scarce? ' Since 2008, the Ministry of Education and Research has launched a programme of higher education textbooks in Estonian. The aim of the programme is to promote the development of scientific terminology in Estonian and the use of teaching materials in Estonian at an institution of higher education and to value publishing in Estonian. Estonian authors' own textbooks are preferred, but translation books have also been supported. The textbooks to be supported shall be selected by expert committees composed of representatives of universities. The aim of the programme is to issue ten new textbooks per year. A total of 61 Estonian-language textbooks have been published since the two programming periods, with 37 textbooks in the work. The fields have been from technical science to medical science, from humanities to agriculture. The funding of the programme of higher education textbooks in Estonian will be continued in autumn 2018. Question 4: "What does the Ministry of Education and Research intend to do to put an end to discriminatory, embarrassing and ridiculous situations, where Estonian students and Estonian faculty need to erupt a corrupt English language when there is even one non-Estonian person to protect? At the same time, the state wishes to see as much internationalisation as possible among the evaluators. Basically, as a result of such internationalisation, it is becoming impossible to defend the final thesis in Estonian. ' As I have already said, the Ministry of Education and Research has commissioned the Estonian Quality Agency for Higher and Vocational Education, or EKKA, this year a thematic assessment at Estonian higher education institutions of study and teaching of foreign students. The evaluation will result in an overview of the best practices in studying and teaching foreign students, as well as bottlenecks. The EKKA's assessment should clarify whether the example described is an isolated case or whether it is a more systemic problem. It is regrettable for lecturers and students to develop a foreign language in defence. According to the higher education standard, a student needs to know a specialized mother and foreign language in such a way that he can participate in discussions and not get into embarrassing or ridiculous situations because of language skills. According to the University Act, the language of study of the university is Estonian and the final thesis in Estonian is generally done on the basis of the Estonian language curriculum. Exceptions are also made to the language used in writing the final thesis, for example where the thesis relates to studying as an exchange student at a foreign university or where the object of the work is in English. Today, the form of doctoral thesis is often no longer a monograph. The final work consists mostly of articles, such as three articles published in a recognized international journal, a brief introduction and a summary. The English-language work must be accompanied by a summary of the volume of the scientific article in Estonian; universities also require a summary of popular science in Estonian. In addition, students will write English and essentially controlled articles on the Wikipedia page, which in turn helps to distribute and implement Estonian terms. The Ministry attaches great importance to the development of Estonian as a scientific language. It is possible to protect the final work in Estonian or in several languages according to the information known to the Ministry of Education. Question 5: 'Protecting scientific degrees has become mostly English. How does this affect the development of the Estonian language and the modernity of the scientific language in the longer term? Do you see a threat to the position of the Estonian language at large? ' The decision on the language to be used for the protection of degrees is the competence of universities. There are rational reasons for using English, because English is indeed an international scientific language. The number of international quotes and other such components determine the university's position among other universities. The stronger Estonian science is, the more open the university is and the better the mentors and researchers can learn. For specific research topics, the number of supervisors and reviewers in Estonia is limited. To facilitate scientific discussion, foreign language skills and the use of foreign languages are important. It is difficult to create modern scientific terminology; it is the researchers of universities who are the best content experts in the development of new terminology due to new trends in modern science and a very good knowledge of the scientific language. Without developing new directions, Estonian as a scientific language could not be up-to-date at a high level. The Estonian scientific language can only develop if new terminology is constantly created for the Estonian language, which meets today's needs. If Estonian language technology develops in the planned direction and pace, it is possible that in ten years' time, the lawyer will be able to present his work freely in Estonian and with technology both the listeners and the reviewer will be able to use the language suitable for them. For example, the University of Tartu requires an exhaustive summary of the English dissertations in Estonian. In recent years, the proportion of Estonian-language dissertations has even increased at the University of Tartu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U147	The round of questions will be opened by Martin Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U148	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Good minister! Now I don't know whether to cry or laugh. I get the impression from what you're saying that everything is in the best condition and is moving forward for the better and that there is no problem, because in ten years the machine will start translating things back into Estonian or into English. Maybe I wouldn't be so specific. You slipped over the answer with some kind of study that you'll find out if it's bad or not bad. I do not think that the study needs to be carried out in order to give such an overall assessment, as the trends have been going on for a long time and are getting worse. The study may provide details and some specific reviews, but I am still asking for a very clear assessment. Do you think that in Estonian higher education, we are particularly talking about master's and doctoral studies, the foreign language invasion process has gone too far or is it threatening higher education in the native language?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U149	Maybe I'll go over the basics again. First of all, as regards the possibility for students to receive education in Estonian in their field of study, we have ongoing cooperation with universities. Of course, universities are autonomous, but this subject is important to us. All the universities have thought about it. The number of universities is quite clearly in place today, we have six public universities and only one private university and some universities of applied sciences. Official regular meetings will take place in this circle and the language theme will be topical. In this sense, you draw attention to the right subject. This was also demonstrated by the language debate in this Chamber, that there are people in universities who are also concerned. If we have analysed the development of Estonian language and scientific language from the point of view of whether we have a sufficiently large role to play in all areas of Estonian, then yes, I admit, we have to work on it. Are we worried? You always have to worry about the language. Do we see that this process has gone too far in Master's programs? No, today English language is the exception rather than the rule. But the fact that the doctoral thesis prefers most to be done in English, yes, is true. We can see that by numbers, but we can also see it from students' attitudes. There are several reasons for this. One is that works are preferred in the form of peer-reviewed articles that appear in English. This process is easier and you get very good contacts in the process. As young researchers have an interest in participating in cooperation projects later on, the use of English is clearly important to them. Secondly, very often when a doctoral thesis is started, at least some people want to study outside Estonia and gain experience, and they want another tutor to be in English. Yeah, it tends to be easier in English. An example of language technology, however, was to show that we already have many more opportunities to teach language technology at such a level that young people do not need to be tempted to start writing in English immediately. We can increasingly and more direct people to write in Estonian. The work is often written in English for reviewers, but it is not necessary to do all the work in English to obtain another reviewer or even an opponent or a second or third opinion, but the work could still be done in Estonian, but for the person involved in this final evaluation process, it would be translated into a computer. I tried to give it as a positive example. Is 20% of internationalisation too much or too little? As a result of this language debate, we have also discussed this issue again on quite a number of occasions in the Ministry of Education and Research. Today, however, everyone thinks that we still need to be competitive. It is important to involve researchers and lecturers internationally today; it is important to make cooperation programmes. It rather has not crossed the critical line today. But, along with this, as you said very nicely on the question, is it necessary to worry about the constant development of Estonian as a scientific language? Perhaps 'worry' is not a good word in Estonian, but to be vigilant and to be constantly dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U150	Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U151	Thank you. I'll start with the line. The autonomy of universities does not go beyond the Constitution, much less national sovereignty and the need to preserve the Estonian language. It's a line about universities being autonomous. As regards doctoral thesis, master's thesis and other works and articles that, as you said, appear in English and do not need to be translated into Estonian, I dare recall the deep Soviet era when I was a student. We wrote all things in Estonian and added content summaries in English, Russian or other languages. I think that this could also now be the Ministry's recommendation to higher education institutions, academic institutions. My question now is: how do you feel about such a suggestion that the work would still be translated into Estonian, while the content summaries would be in a foreign language?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U152	Thank you. Certainly, universities have no autonomy over the Constitution. On the contrary, when I answered your first question, I also pointed out that the Constitution contains two paragraphs 37 and 38 that both concern this matter. The first talks about education, and the second also brings in science, universities and research institutions are autonomous in this sense. So no, I haven't tried to say that they're above the Constitution. Now, language policy. I have already referred to this in response to a number of questions, but again. Universities themselves are of the opinion, but the Ministry has also given a very clear message that foreign language works must also have a proper translation in the form of resumes. As I have already pointed out, it is being dealt with seriously and the University of Tartu has done so systematically. Should the entire doctoral thesis be in Estonian? I believe it is important if we think about the constant development of our scientific language. So this is a subject that I agree with you on. Today, translation is being carried out in Estonia and reviews of the peer-reviewed articles of which the dissertations often consist today are published. Many graduates also have an interest in translating these articles. However, the proposal for this to take place systematically and in all areas is, in my opinion, very good.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U153	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U154	Thank you. It's like what you're saying, it's like the Ministry of Education has nothing to do with it, because the universities want to go to English themselves. However, the Ministry has concluded agreements with universities according to which additional funding will be required for the transition to English-language education and paid places can only be created in English-language education. After all, this has led to the fact that in some subjects most of the studies are already in English. I have one concrete example. Last year, it must have happened that the Faculty of History wanted to protect the doctoral thesis, that everyone was Estonian, that only one reviewer was Finnish, and that was the result: instead of getting an interpreter for him, everything was done in English, all Estonians spoke to each other in English. Do you really think this is normal? This case can be fully generalised; it is not an isolated case at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U155	Thank you. First of all, university contracts. Yes, internationalisation has been included in university contracts, and it is indeed rewarded with separate performance money, but this does not mean the percentage of curricula in the same proportion. What is its purpose? That we have enough attractive curricula to want foreign students to come to us, because it is also our interest that our students receive experience from outside Estonia during a certain period of time and then come back to us, as is the case with foreign lecturers. So the Ministry does not want to give up the fact that we have international relations and also scientific cooperation. You have pointed out, as a warning, that this will only lead to the spread of English-language curricula. There are no facts known to the Ministry such that Estonian-language curricula would be replaced by English-language ones only. In general, their numbers have evolved. This is also the reason why the Ministry of Education and Research has commissioned this in-depth analysis. If it turns out that indeed curricula will be replaced, even though otherwise agreed, the Ministry of Education and Research will, of course, be able to clarify this by means of agreements. Now, about the case you mentioned. No, that's not normal. I believe that this situation could also have been resolved in such a way that all the activities of this Finn have been translated. Of course, I cannot generalise this one fact; I do not know whether everyone wanted to show a good colleague in Finland how they respect him or how well everyone speaks English. I don't know if it's a good practice for this single example, if that's why this whole thing is in English. I personally have experience from Sweden, where there have been so and so, there have been purely Swedish seminars that allow translation, and there have been just as many English-language doctoral seminars, just because there were two doctoral students who spoke in English. So I think both ways this problem can be solved. What's normal in what proportion? This will be done according to the possibilities.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U156	Thank you very much to the Minister. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U157	President-in-Office of the Council. People's ambassadors! Madam Minister, thank you for your answers. Our questioning was not because we wanted to attack the coalition in any way, but because the questions are really in the air. As we have heard in this language debate on free party children about a month ago, this issue is also a concern in universities and society at large. I believe that our questioning may once again raise these questions and show these pains. Now a little bit about the answers and the conclusions we can make. It makes no sense for us to compare ourselves with any other European country, Sweden, Finland or Germany, with 900000 Estonians in this country. They're incomparable sizes. Our language space is so small that every piece we lose is extremely difficult for us to make up for, if not impossible. To be honest, we are trampling on the work of our grandfathers and grandmothers by english. Remember what enthusiasm, passion and intellectual contribution started in the 1920s when the university became Estonian, literally creating the Estonian scientific language, Estonian cultural language. In fact, it continued quite fruitfully in the Soviet period, as it was necessary to show that culture was socialist in substance and national in form, or how it was that national culture flourished in all the republics of the Union. Therefore, the national languages were not very repressed. Philosophy was another: we flood immigrants and these cultures and languages fade and blur themselves. But that's another subject. I can also make a contribution on this subject in the light of personal experience. For 14 years I taught international relations, at first at the University of Audentes, which was a completely Estonian-language university, no course was in any other language. When the University of Audentes joined the Tallinn University of Technology and formed the Institute of International Relations there, English language courses and curricula began to sneak in. At first, a few people, but when I finished work there in 2014, the institute was one hundred percent English, there were no Estonian courses left. This took place for about five years, gradually transcending English. This caused a lot of resentment in the student body, as in the last year too, more than half of the students were Estonians in all the courses and the absolute majority of the lecturers were Estonians. But works, course papers, other works, bachelor's thesis, not to mention master's thesis, could no longer be written or defended in Estonian. Here, of course, it can be said that yes, it is a paid university, and he introduced English-language education in the light of his commercial interests. But still, Henn Põllea asked the question... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U158	Please! Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U159	... is also perfectly relevant in this context, because, as I said, more than half of the students in all the courses were Estonians. And now. We are talking about internationalisation as something very progressive, raising the level of learning and research. I'm sorry! My experience with this university tells me that those students who came to pay places elsewhere, especially those who came from the Third World, were below all levels. First of all, they did not know English, they were unable to communicate in English, the work they presented was done by the copy-paste method, these works had to be returned repeatedly and asked to be re-edited, re-submitted. All this was a waste of time, energy, and actually a waste of level. So here we are talking about the fact that internationalisation increases the level of study in our universities, it is simply not true. Now the guest lecturers. In some cases, we had joint lectures and major seminars, so there was a chance to make sure that, with certain exceptions, guest lecturers were fully C-category lecturers, mostly left-wing liberals who had just found a place to warm up their asses at this remote Europrovince university. With the help of these faculty members, at least in this particular university, I didn't experience any raising. So all these beautiful answers, how we raise levels and want to be internationally competitive, sound beautiful as slogans, but practice is a criterion of truth. In practice, at least from my experience, these things didn't work. I have also heard feedback from other universities, other lecturers and intellectuals: too often they do not work elsewhere. It's actually a place for the Ministry of Education and Science to think now. Think about what kind of filter these academic individuals who are coming to raise our level and international competitiveness should be going through so that we don't engage in any kind of U-category students and C-category faculty here. It is also one of the very important aspects of this English-language higher education and research. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U160	There are no more requests for the floor, I will conclude the debate on questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U161	Ladies and gentlemen, The following two questions prove to us that the actions and meanings of an important and busy person are far greater than the sum of the years of life allocated to them. I'm talking about Andres Ammas. Sixth item: Enquiry submitted on 22 March by the members of the Riigikogu Krista Aru, Andres Ammas, Jüri Adams, Monika Haukanõmme, Artur Talvik, Külmiki Kübarsep and Ain Lutsepep, No 429 on the internationalisation of Estonian higher education institutions and higher education in Estonian. Please, on behalf of Krista Aru's heirs!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U162	Mr President, thank you for this very nice reminder. Madam Minister! Good people's representatives! I am in a somewhat difficult situation here because the questions of the previous question, as well as the Minister's answers, concerned this issue, which has been raised in this question as well. However, I fully agree with my colleague, Mart Helme, that it is probably not too much to speak Estonian, including Estonian in higher education, in the case of a small nation that holds, protects, promotes and carries on both this language and the country that needs and works with it. The focus of our questions is precisely internationalisation. What has it brought with it? Has the Ministry analysed the direct link between the objective of internationalisation and what, in part, has certainly actually happened in higher education because of this objective? On the other hand, the whole funding principle for higher education institutions has also changed radically. Estonian-language education is free of charge, for which the higher education institutions do not take money. It is designed to educate society in general, to ensure access to higher education for all. On the other hand, higher education institutions also want to earn additional money through foreign language curricula. Here, of course, is a direct question of whether and how many foreign language curricula, which are also slightly under-fulfilled in the sense of learners, are still economically effective. There is certainly nothing behind this question but the desire to show that if someone can maintain and develop the Estonian language at a higher level, it is the responsibility of our higher education institutions. And the question is how much the Ministry can, wants and can intervene in the autonomy of higher education institutions. On the one hand, the papers say that a doctoral thesis protected in a foreign language must be accompanied by a summary in Estonian, but the question is whether and to what extent this requirement is actually observed and evaluated. So we have six questions here and we are perfectly understanding when the Minister points out, in answering some questions, that this issue has already been adequately addressed today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U163	In any case, the answer is 15 minutes. Please, Minister Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U164	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I believe that what we have already discussed comes up with questions and answers. However, from the respect for both those who ask questions and those who prepare the answers, I will report them exactly as they have been prepared. 'Why are there unfixed principles in the Higher Education Code that would ensure the functioning of the Estonian national language as a higher education language? Are they formulated in the amendments to the Higher Education Code? Paragraph 22 (8) of the University Act states that the university's language of study is Estonian and that the use of other languages is decided by the University Council. The language of study at the University of Applied Sciences is Estonian and the minister decides to use other languages. Paragraph 2 (4) of the University of Tartu Act imposes a separate obligation on the University of Tartu to promote the research and education in Estonian and its people in order to preserve the Estonian language and culture and to preserve the national cultural heritage. In order to fulfil this task, the university has created national professorships for teaching and research in Estonian culture, Estonian language and Estonian history. The new draft law on higher education is under discussion. The importance of learning and teaching in Estonian is to be made clearer in the draft. When opening study programmes in foreign languages, it is necessary to assess whether the opportunities for learning in Estonian are available, what is the need for specialists with higher education and the resources necessary for learning in foreign languages. 'What is the proportion of performance contracts with higher education institutions [... ] internationalisation of the learning environment? Will the performance agreements be adjusted with the aim of ensuring teaching in Estonian in all disciplines? ' A new funding model for higher education institutions, with 80% basic funding and 20% performance funding, has been implemented with the amendments to the University Act, which entered into force in 2017. One of the six performance indicators underpinning the performance facility is the share of foreign students studying in higher education among all students in the institution. This indicator represents 10% of the endpoints. As of 2017, the share of foreign students in the student population is 9.5%. The applicants' claim that performance contracts aim at 20% of the curricula being in English is not correct. Making curricula English is not an objective. Performance funding will support internationalisation, measured by the share of foreign students. If the proportion of foreign students in higher education exceeds 20%, this will still count as 20% for the calculation of the volume of performance finance. In the autumn of this year, negotiations will start with universities on new management contracts for the period from 2019 to 2021. The new agreements are intended to agree on the obligation for universities to provide education in Estonian at first and second levels, at least in the areas of responsibility of the university, in all study programme groups where curricula are open for admission. The third question: 'The study programmes in English, together with the Estonian and English curricula, are 30% of the curricula, including the Master's degree programmes, are 29% of the curricula in English. At the same time, there are relatively fewer students per curriculum than in the case of Estonian language. Does the small number of students in the English-language curriculum ensure the programme's profitability or is the English-language education financed on the account of Estonian-language studies? ' The facts in the question are a little misleading. In total, only curricula with English language of study and doctoral programmes with two languages of instruction, normally Estonian and English, allowed according to the higher education standard have been merged. In fact, English-language curricula with students account for 15% of all curricula. The share of English-language curricula in Master's studies is 25%. The number of students per curriculum does not depend so much on the language of instruction as on the degree and field of study. There are more English-language study programmes in Master's degree, where there are fewer students per curriculum than average. More than average students per curriculum are integrated in study. Many English-language curricula have only been accepted once, so the number of students per curriculum is still very low. Compared, for example, to the number of students admitted to a master's degree by language of study, the difference is not significant: 19 students entered the Estonian Master's programme on average and 18 students enrolled in English on average per curriculum. Higher education institutions are responsible for opening, implementing and changing curricula. Often, decisions are based on the interests and number of students studying in curricula. Due to the demographic situation, Estonian higher education institutions are often faced with a dilemma, either to narrow down the number of students or to become more internationalized. The opening of English-language curricula is not only due to the desire or possibility to charge students a tuition fee. 29% of students in English-language curricula study free of charge. Fourth: 'How do I explain to Estonian students why in special education with an Estonian Bachelor's degree programme they are allowed to have a course in English when an Erasmus student attends the course? Is the Ministry aware of such cases and has such behaviour been approved? 'The participation of Erasmus+ students in the course does not affect the language of instruction of the course, as confirmed by universities. Erasmus+ exchange students generally choose English-language subjects and other options are resolved on a case-by-case basis. According to universities, studies are usually conducted in the language designated as the language of instruction. Bachelor of Special Pedagogics is held both at the University of Tartu and at Tallinn University. The language of instruction in both curricula is Estonian, but the other language required to achieve the learning outcomes is English. Thus, students are aware at the entrance that they need to have the necessary foreign language skills in order to achieve their learning outcomes. The institution has the right to decide which subjects and to what extent foreign lecturers participate in the study and which English-language teaching materials students should work with. The higher education standard endorsed by the Government of the Republic's Regulation defines the student as a student's learning outcomes that, at the end of his studies, in addition to his or her language of study, he or she must be able to explain in at least one foreign language the problems of the field of study verbally and in writing and participate in the professional discussion. According to the study 'The role of foreign language skills in the labour market', language skills have a significant impact on both occupancy and wage formation. In view of the possibility of international work experience, it would be necessary to acquire English at the level of freedom of ownership. One of the objectives of the Erasmus+ programme is to provide learning mobility participants with the opportunity to get acquainted with other cultures and integrate into the local environment. Fifth: 'Can and when will the Ministry, together with the higher education institutions, develop and apply to the foreign language Bachelor's and Master's degree curriculum an Estonian module on learning and work placements of Estonian language, culture and society in the Estonian company and/or organisation? A foreign student who has successfully completed the curriculum could also benefit from an extension of the residence permit for a certain period of time [... ] to enable us to find work in Estonia. This so-called Estonian module could be applied to both paid and free curricula. ' Universities of higher education are responsible for the development of curricula and the state generally does not intervene. The country does not intend to develop a module. All universities offer students in English-language curricula the opportunity to learn Estonian at least at the basic level. Some universities also have separate cultural studies. No university is involved in compulsory education, but it is mostly optional subjects. The module described in the question already exists in a certain form. Since 2015, new immigrants' adaptation programme has been launched in the administration of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, supported by the European Union, which includes training to support integration, including Estonian language learning at A1 level. The programme offers a "basic module" aimed at helping immigrants to adapt to Estonian society by acquiring knowledge about the functioning of the state and society, everyday living conditions and the cultural environment. A separate learning module and research module have been developed for foreign students and lecturers as well as for external researchers. The modules provide immigrants with information about, for example, the education system in Estonia, as well as research institutions and arrangements, as well as apprenticeships and employment opportunities. The modules are also offered in cooperation with universities. Even now, foreign students and researchers have the right to stay in Estonia at the end of their studies or research, in order to find a job here or start a business. According to the draft Act amending the law on planned VMS, i.e. the Aliens Act, the legal basis for stay in Estonia is extended from 183 days to 270 days, i.e. nine months after the expiry of the residence permit. Both universities and employers organise contact events for foreign students to introduce job opportunities in Estonia, such as Work in Estonia. The Government of the Republic considers the inclusion of foreign students in the Estonian labour market to be important. The Committee on Economic Development has agreed that the Minister for Enterprise and Information Technology, in cooperation with the Minister for Education and Research and the Minister for Health and Labour, will present an overview of the proposals for better involvement of foreign students in the labour market in September 2018. And sixth: 'Can you confirm that the working language of Estonian public and state higher education institutions is Estonian in all higher education institutions and research institutions, and that foreign teachers and researchers working in higher education institutions with an open-ended contract have been given opportunities to acquire a certain amount of time [... ] during at least a passive Estonian language that would enable them to attend Estonian-language meetings and events? ' The official language of business in Estonian higher education institutions is Estonian. Paragraph 10 (1) of the Language Act provides that the administration of the state institution and the local government institution is to take place in Estonian. In higher education institutions, the rules, procedures and other documents of the higher education institution are also made available in English due to the international working and learning environment. According to subsection 23 (5) of the Language Act, the requirements of Estonian language proficiency do not apply to foreign teachers and foreign researchers if they have worked in Estonia for less than five years. The working language of a scientific group or other such group shall be the subject of an internal agreement between the respective group in which neither the university nor the State intervenes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U165	The first question is asked by Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U166	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, It is the language that is most at risk if it loses some of its uses. Birute Klaas-Lang said here in our language debate that the language of higher education and science is the top of the language pyramid, but also some may disappear from it, and it will certainly have very bad consequences for us. I will now ask you a question as Minister of Science. Perhaps this issue is also worth presenting to current rector candidates at the University of Tartu. Is there any way to highlight which disciplines or fields of science are seriously threatened by the terminology, its continuation and use in Estonian? Will the university and the ministry carry out such monitoring in a very specific way?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U167	Thank you, good questioner! I'd like to hope they do. But I am now indebted to the answer as to whether, for example, our language department has such a real and constant connection. I would like to hope that our good research institution, which has been considered in the meantime and which deals with a wide range of language topics, has such an overview. In order to deal with language terminology and various parts of scientific language, we have defined separate responsibilities. But can I point out a specific area today? I'm sorry, I can't answer that. Sensitively, according to the information I've received from the meetings, one and the other has given examples. However, in order for me to be able to answer more precisely here, I should have more information. But that is a good question for both the rector's candidates and the Minister of Science. I'll take it home to deal with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U168	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U169	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good Minister, correct me if I'm wrong, but I know that universities have different rules on how many master's or doctoral papers should be presented in one language or another. You mentioned in the previous round of answers that you have very close cooperation with universities. Have you not also discussed the possibility of harmonising these rules? And how far is this going to be, if you've already talked to the universities about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U170	Thank you. As the good questioner knows, the Higher Education Code Steering Group has indeed taken on a very large range of topics. Of course, not everyone has reached the Higher Education Code, but the topic of Estonian as a scientific language was also discussed. I do not want to say that it was a desire for harmonisation, but the ambition to agree certain rules on quality rules among themselves, but the international rules were also very big at the beginning. If you go into the details now, at one point the universities still wanted to be specific. I believe that if we want to regulate something that concerns the role of the Estonian national language in universities, they are ready to do so. I have no reason to think otherwise, given the contacts I've had with universities so far. But it must be genuinely voluntary. We have made such mutual quality agreements and so-called soft documents, where universities themselves say that we are taking this or another goal. I believe they have that kind of readiness. If we wanted to start very vigorously regulating the Higher Education Code here at the level of the Riigikogu, I fear that they would have no confidence in the answer. But I think that if, for example, we tell universities that they could regulate one or the other issue in their agreements, including quality agreements, they have such readiness. I also believe that there is a willingness to increase the share of the Estonian language in mutual performance agreements, which would show the great role of developing the Estonian language as a scientific language.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U171	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U172	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister! You answered all the questions correctly by reading the answers on paper. We disagreed on a few percent. I really used the percentages from the university professors. But my question is what worries you, as Minister of Education and Research, about the current situation of Estonian at higher education institutions. Are there any bottlenecks that you think the Ministry's language department might have to deal with in depth, certainly involving the science department?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U173	Thank you. The big picture is again that I should have better analyses and better numbers ahead of me, so I would dare say that my arguments are all objective and correct. But in my personal opinion, there are two issues here. One is what Andres Herkel asked about. Once again, I would like to say in a sense that we have some areas where we tend to write more or mostly in English, or where we are quite lazy ourselves to use words adapted from English into Estonian. There are a number of areas in the social sciences where we can see that it is just more comfortable because the entire auditorium has such a strange esto-English/English-esto language. There is no attempt to use Estonian, even if there is terminology. In English, let's say, the use of a slightly modified word is easier: everyone understands it, even though they realise that it is not really an Estonian term. It's comfort. And we still have a little bit of proof that I am an intelligent and educated person because I know a foreign language. To prove it, we're still putting small references in our story, even though we could be adults enough. The second and broader topic, driven by your inquiry, is free education. In competitive conditions, we are all looking for extra money in higher education. The current situation of international curricula is not worrying, these numbers are not so large. But if, at one point, higher education institutions find that there is one way to open more paid study places, and the so-called critical percentage and vigilance disappear, this could become a problem. Now the question is, what is its effect? Well, we can assume different scenarios here. There are also small countries that have come out of the situation very cheerfully and relentlessly and have taken the view that higher education is largely in English. However, we have so far held to the point that the Estonian language must also be preserved as a scientific language. I deliberately read the numbers off the paper when I answered your questions and took them together because I want to say that today these numbers are not sad. Jürgen Ligi, who left the hall, would say that I use the word 'today' all the time. I say, then, that the current situation I am trying to improve is that we have no reason to worry yet, but tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, the situation is already critical.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U174	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U175	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Basically, other language curricula should be subject to a fee, but we know that there are a number of foreign students who really do not pay for their studies, their education is paid by our taxpayer. How many of these foreign students are there? And how much are we talking about, what are we educating foreign students with?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U176	Thank you. We have not separately collected statistics on the number of such students from the Member States of the European Union. The system is like this, I believe that the good questioner knows it, too, that we cannot make any distinctions between the citizens of the European Union. A citizen of the European Union can come here for a study programme in English or also in Estonian. For example, the veterinary faculty of the University of Life Sciences is submitted to a study programme in Estonian. We also have students from the countries of the European Union who have come to the medical faculty to study in Estonian. So if they come from the European Union on the same basis, they cannot charge separate tuition fees. This is why the citizens of the European Union cannot be distinguished here. So there is no English-Estonian rule here. Why open free curricula in English? There was already a reference to this in these questions. As a general rule, it is an Erasmus programme; Erasmus students are expected to have the opportunity to study here. Let us hope that there are not, or are not, many cases of peril such as the one you have pointed out. Our universities do not need to show an Erasmus student how much fun we can speak English. The Erasmus student still comes here with the knowledge that these and these parts of the curriculum are in Estonian, but they and they are in English. Students who today study in English and free of charge are usually either Erasmus exchange students or from the European Union. As far as I know, there are no other examples. Universities follow the situation quite closely. But if there are other examples, let me know.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U177	Enn Meri.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U178	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister! There is always a shortage of money, of course, in education. How do you see where this money should come from, or what is your vision of a strategy for financing education?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U179	Thank you. In the country's budget strategy, which has not been finally approved, the project was approved at a certain level and will go further in its procedures. How do I see it? First of all, where should the money come from? I clearly prefer public money. I believe that both higher education and science are driving the Estonian economy forward. This is shown by numbers all over Europe, and we have tried to show it. Saturday's science march also reminded us again that EUR 7 per euro will return to the economy. So I believe that the taxpayer should be patient enough, because investing in higher education (as much as in education) and science is worth it. Involvement of private money is an interesting topic of discussion, but generally it actually means tuition. Personally, I do not support tuition as we had it. It seems very beautiful in retrospect, but there were also a lot of substantive reasons for the loss of tuition fees. First of all, tuition fees were taken only in certain disciplines. The tuition fee did not cover all the costs and was actually subsidised at the expense of other disciplines. This led to a very big round of lectures. So quality fell in a number of areas. There are examples of applying tuition fees to include private capital. Great Britain, for example, has set uniform tuition fees for all. However, this uniform tuition fee must take into account the fact that education is still available to all. Thus, in the end, most students must receive free education nationally. Ultimately, it is not useful to maintain all these complex schemes. So I prefer public money to the state budget because, as I said, it brings back income to the economy quite quickly. Estonia still wants to be a smart and active nation with its own entrepreneurial and value-added economy. I support it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U180	Thank you to the Minister. I'm opening negotiations. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U181	Mr President! Thank you, Madam Minister, for your answers. Good people's representatives! The Minister gave us plenty of raps and clear answers. He repeatedly said that there are no major problems with the Estonian language in higher education today, but he did not deny the need to be vigilant. When we look at the fourth issue of the journal Academy this year, here is a very interesting article by Professor Birute Klaas-Lang and Professor Helle Metslang. They warn in a very thorough and numerical review of the sustainability of Estonian language in higher education, precisely those trends that have occurred in the last ten years. According to them, this position also remained evident on 15 March, when the discussion of a crucial national question initiated by the Free Party Group in this Chamber was that the current tendencies towards the Estonian language used in our higher education are rather worrying. In replying to inquiries here today, the Minister also touched on a fundamental question, to which the most correct place to give an answer is the Chamber of the Riigikogu. The Estonian language is the basis for the survival of our small people, our country. If we do not have an Estonian language that actually works in all areas of life, which is progressing and changing with time, it will be very difficult for us to keep, manage, grow and move our own nation and our own country. As a result, all these following things are that keeping a small country is harder for the economy and keeping a small language is harder for the economy. It is precisely higher education and science that must be at the forefront of this task and also of providing for the Estonian language with a vision. If the university, the university, takes a step backwards, the importance of Estonian language is reduced either in technical sciences, natural sciences or social sciences, then the whole country will lose it. We must definitely not afford that. So, in summary, I very much wish the Minister strength, strength and will as well. We are in the process of updating the Higher Education Code: we are re-evaluating all funding and contracts for higher education, including performance contracts. We should also think now that it is not just a question of how many international students we have or how important internationalisation is. The question is how to keep and move on to your Estonian country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U182	There are no more requests to speak, the debate on these issues is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U183	The seventh item is the request of the members of the Riigikogu Krista Aru, Andres Ammas, Jüri Adams, Monika Haukanõmme, Artur Talvik, Külmiki Kübarsep, Andres Herkel and Ain Lutsepep on 22 March no 430 on Estonian-language teaching and education in early childhood education. Please, on behalf of the heirs Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U184	Mr President! Madam Minister! Good people's representatives! I am pleased to speak about early childhood education in relation to Estonian. This issue has already been mentioned in this Chamber today: the colleagues of the Reform Party stressed on several occasions the importance of early childhood education. However, the root cause of this inquiry is once again the language debate in this Chamber of the Riigikogu on 15 March. In fact, Professor Martin Ehala raised very clear proposals on how to move forward with the language arrangements for early childhood education, so that, on the one hand, we would not insult or hurt those people of another nation who live and work here and are residents of the Republic of Estonia, but, on the other hand, we would still be able to create at least a learning system based on the Estonian language. After all, the school system is the very foundation of the future of working life and, in a much broader sense, social life. The aim is for us to lose those parallel communities that break society and that do not contribute in any way to the functioning and development of the Estonian state. We have five clear and simple questions. These are all presented precisely in order to get a picture of the real situation of the Estonian language in early childhood education, including the bottlenecks that may hinder the introduction of proper Estonian-language education from pre-primary education to this day. We certainly do not blame the current minister, but we are trying to answer this big general question of why so many things that should have been resolved in society a long time ago are still a problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U185	The minister's coming to answer. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U186	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! As has already been said in the introduction, our mutual efforts here are to clarify some of the provisions and also to make proposals. The first question: 'How many children's institutions are there in Estonia where education and education are not carried out in Estonian? " According to the Estonian Education Information System, Estonia has 628 kindergartens. Of these, 106 are Russian language of instruction and six are English language of instruction. 'What other languages are teaching and education languages in Estonian early childhood education? ' In addition to Estonian, these are Russian and English. German and a number of other languages are also taught in the context of recreational education. Secondly, 'How is early childhood education for children with a migrant background organised today? ' Under the Pre-school Children's Institution Act, children with a migrant background are guaranteed early childhood education, including Estonian language education, on the basis of the national curriculum of the pre-school institution. At the request of the parent, the city or municipality government allows for a day-care centre. The state grants support for organising Estonian language learning for children with a migrant background. In 2018, the total amount of the national allocation for municipalities to organise Estonian language studies in kindergartens is 319000 euros. Third: 'How widely has the so-called open-school programme been implemented today, in which children with different native languages would grow together through bilateral immersion? ' 4.9% of children attending pre-school children's institutions participate in language immersion: 78.2% of children are in groups with Estonian and 17% in Russian. On the basis of the national curriculum of the pre-school children's institution, Estonian language education is provided for children with different native languages. In a kindergarten or group whose education and education activities are not carried out in Estonian, education in Estonian is started for three-year-old children either by means of a separate language activity, by integrating language learning with other activities or by applying the partial immersion methodology. Five-year-olds can switch to the application of the full language immersion methodology when teaching Estonian. If the study and education activities in the group are carried out in Estonian, non-Estonian children will acquire the Estonian language either through integrated activities, which may be supplemented by support education in Estonian, or by applying the full language immersion methodology. The expected learning outcomes of the Estonian language are designed taking into account children's level of development, age, volume of study and methodology of the Estonian language. An individual development plan for teaching Estonian as a second language will be drawn up if necessary for children with special needs. 'Is participation in the immersion programme voluntary and free of charge? What are the obstacles to the wider implementation of this programme? ' Participation in a language immersion programme is voluntary for children and their parents and there are no differences in parental participation fees under the Pre-school Childhood Act. The competence of the local government is to provide for parental participation fees, which may not exceed 20% of the minimum wage established by the Government of the Republic. Joining the immersion programme requires the preparation of a kindergarten. The kindergarten that wishes to join must be ready to define itself as a language immersion institution, which must also be reflected in its documents: development plan, kindergarten curriculum, etc. It must also apply the general principles of language distribution and language immersion in accordance with the chosen language immersion model: full early, partial early or two-way immersion. The kindergarten must participate in general language immersion programme and network development and ensure the professional development of teachers teaching in language immersion groups: the possibility to participate in the methodological training of the language immersion programme, team training, individual and group counselling, trainer and/or advisor training, study visits. The kindergarten needs to work fully with parents to ensure the development of the child's mother tongue. He must also cooperate with alumni and with the Association of Parents of the language bath program. The general principles of the language immersion programme are published on the website of the Innove language immersion programme. Obstacles to enlargement are due to the motivational problems of parents and kindergartens as well as the problems of the association and programme management of the immersion programme. Fourth: 'Article 8 (4) of the Pre-school Children's Institution Act states that in a child institution or group of children where education and education activities are not carried out in Estonian, Estonian language education is compulsory in the amount prescribed in the framework curriculum for pre-school education. How successful will the implementation of this requirement be in practice? What are the main shortcomings? ' The framework curriculum for early childhood education is no longer valid. The teaching of Estonian in kindergartens is based on Regulation No 87 of the Government of the Republic of Estonia of 29 May 2008 "National curriculum for pre-school children' and is compulsory. 2012/2013. 9 and 2013/2014. During the academic year, support for the development of the child, including the organisation of Estonian language learning, was a priority of the thematic national supervision of early childhood education. You can also read this overview if you want, but I'm not going to read the link here. The results of the monitoring show that children with other mother tongues have a good physical and mental environment to support the acquisition of Estonian in kindergartens. It is possible to read from EHIS data that the language skills of kindergarten managers and teachers and the proportion of Estonian-language teachers among kindergarten teachers have a significant impact on the child's further learning in a school with an Estonian language or, for example, in a language immersion school. The choice of the school's language of study is also influenced by whether the municipality has sufficient opportunities to continue comprehensive education in Estonian or according to the language immersion methodology. The development of an action plan for teaching Estonian as a second language in pre-school education was mapped in 2017 by the field's teaching materials, the state of further training and also the obstacles to teaching Estonian as a second language. The main shortcomings in kindergartens relate to continuing training as well as access to educational materials. Based on the results of the analysis, the kindergartens who joined the language immersion programme were given training and counselling in Estonian. At the same time, the training needs of teachers of Estonian as a second language as well as of teachers of Estonian and other kindergartens in the field of Estonian are not covered. As a result of the analysis, proposals and action plan were drawn up to enable the teaching materials of Estonian language and further training for kindergarten teachers. Fifthly, what are the Ministry's proposals for shaping early childhood education in municipal institutions in Estonian? Are there teachers for a change that has been mentioned for years? ' Estonian language education must be guaranteed for children in kindergarten from the age of three. To improve language learning, we will create additional positions for Estonian language teachers in kindergartens: it is planned to bring at least one Estonian language teacher to each Russian language group. The corresponding measure was also approved in the original version of the State Budget Procedure. The purchase of teaching materials in Estonian is also planned, including for ordering materials for early childhood education. The national curriculum of pre-school children's institution is better associated with the national curriculum of comprehensive school. The severity of the Estonian language will be given the language level symbols. The cooperation between Tallinn University and the University of Vaasa has also developed an international module to enhance language immersion in universities. The British Council programme has supported the teaching and networking of Estonian as a second language in kindergartens in Ida-Virumaa. In March 2008 a conference was held in Narva-Jõesuu on children's schooling and support for Estonian language learning. In cooperation with the Foundation Innove, further training in groups with immersion and other language of instruction is intended to be significantly extended to teachers who enable supporting instruction in Estonian as a second language. If you sum up the proposals, that is the content of the proposals. We have over 600 Russian-speaking groups in the kindergartens that I mentioned at 106 kindergartens that work in Russian. In addition to the teachers who are already there, at least one teacher could be found in each group step by step, in the presence of teachers, who would always speak Estonian with children. We will see how much kindergartens and parents are prepared, but this proposal was supported during the discussion of the country's budgetary strategy. So basically, we can start right now with the kindergartens who are prepared for it and then move forward step by step. Years have shown that the percentage of enlargement of immersion has not increased very much: only a few groups join each year. But I can give you the numbers that speak for themselves to answer your questions. Every year there are quite a few parents who prefer to put their child in the Estonian-speaking group from the beginning. The Russian kindergartens, for example, who have gone step by step in Tallinn, whether in part or in full, to study in Estonian, come every year. So the willingness of parents without any major political order has clearly moved in this direction in Tallinn and Ida-Virumaa, where there are most of these people, not to mention the regions. We must certainly act very wisely here, encourage these opportunities and find them. Life shows that the stronger we prepare for schooling for children in kindergarten, the more children choose further education according to their wishes, not according to their language skills. But one thing must be taken into account if more and more children learn the Estonian language very well before school if they learn both languages. We must then also look at the extent to which we are prepared to deal with their children and families later in Estonian-language schools. Perhaps, in this great political rush, we are at times oversimplifying this issue. Schools that already have such a reputation for dealing with their children are going to go, but this is actually a double burden for schools. We don't give them enough credit. So this aspect is also here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U187	Krista Aru asks the first question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U188	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Madam Minister, for your answers. The subject really needs a smart approach, and it is probably very dangerous to approach it with a political hurrah. My question concerns precisely these children of new immigrants. The education of these children is supported by the state either through central government, municipal government or school. But has the state planned it so that these children would learn in Estonian? Is it almost indicative? Or is the parent still choosing the language of this study?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U189	Thank you. This proposal and the subject definitely need a common understanding and a very calm approach. So far, it has been rather the case that new immigrants go to the local self-government, which welcomes and deals with these new immigrants. If we're talking about the real new immigrants we have to share, we can count them all here. And the specific question is how many years they are in Estonia. The fact is that a considerable majority of them actually want to go to their relatives and acquaintances in Germany, it has been their dream. Or let's take the same example of Haapsalu. I went to that kindergarten myself and talked to the teachers. Children have no question at all: they not only acquire Estonian skills very, very fast, but also adapt quickly. Immigrants' children are completely integrated into the group, and other children take their place calmly. The broader issue is that when we talk about immigrants in general, both those who come because of quotas and those who come here as top specialists, they have a desire to study in English. Very often they do not have long-term plans, and families prefer English-language childcare or kindergarten. Secondly, it must be taken into account that there are clearly those communities where they come from and where they move to. When people come from Russia, Belarus and Ukraine, they move to Russian kindergartens and schools. So do we need what was brought to our table here as a matter of national importance or as a proposal? Could this be a national course? I think it's worth considering. I know a little more Ukrainian communities. There's little coming from there for us, but these lonely people come here very openly and adapt very quickly. According to the Language Inspectorate, their readiness to learn the language is also very, very high. So I believe that if there were such a signal that we preferred, preferential funding or support them, even if we were to do it at first as a soft measure, then the readiness would clearly be there. I believe that this is something that we have not yet dealt with so clearly. Parents may be most willing to accompany language training in early childhood education. We've tried now that we have a immersion. We have systematically tried in the country that we have placed an obligation on institutions to deal with language learning. We have teachers, we have methodologies, we have teaching materials, maybe not enough, but it has been dealt with. To this end, there have been separate national programmes, integration programmes. It has also been strongly supported by the embassies. If we look at the readiness to take the next step, then rather, the positive examples I have given are the same ones we see from the experience of other countries. At least initially, both teachers will be guaranteed, worked in parallel in both languages, and the child will grow up, and I will not talk here for a very long time in bilingual form. He knows very clearly that an apple and a mother have several names, and he always has a sense of security when he talks. If he grows up, he can gradually increase the proportion of his studies in Estonian before school. It can be done very calmly. There are a lot of language learning methodologies, and we can also see this in the case of new immigrants in other countries. We could also use this approach in Estonia, with results coming quite quickly. So this, too, is one of the proposals.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U190	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U191	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! I understand that the Ministry is ready to support the transition to Estonian-language learning through the procurement of educational materials and the existence of at least one Estonian-language teacher in the group. But your answers were that parents would rather be prepared, but kindergartens wouldn't come along that much. Can you tell me what the real reason why this readiness isn't so much? Is there a cultural or generational reason for this, or is it about influencing will at political or local level? What's missing? Or some communication error has been made: the Ministry has failed to make it clear that learning the Estonian language is particularly good for these children, because they can do it here in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U192	First of all, pre-school education is a new issue. We can all say at political level that it is either that or that, but let us be honest that this is the subject of the last few years. Early childhood education has been left out in the education system for a very long time at all. Rather, teachers have had to prove themselves that they are doing a very good job. And the attitude that early childhood education is the foundation, however, does not have a very long tradition. Early childhood education has very good traditions, but it is quite recent in political rhetoric. That's the first thing. Early childhood education has rather been a matter of local government in order for people to be able to go to work. This understanding of the importance of its role in education and, in particular, in language policy, is rather fresh. If you start thinking about integration issues, early childhood education has never been at the heart of discussions in this Chamber. The first thing is that we haven't really convinced anyone at national level. It was a political decision that, from the age of three, the possibility of learning a national language would be guaranteed, and then it was as if everything had to happen. Nothing will happen in itself. The local government had to see for itself where to find these teachers. National continuing training programmes have also been more adapted to immersion. There have been very few large, systematic kindergarten trainings at all. We've still been more involved in school. It's great that we've dealt with them, but the systematic training of kindergarten teachers has been more of a local government and kindergarten manager thing: to look for lecturers from universities, etc. The funds have been cut off, but the system has been a little different. So first, let's all look in the mirror. We have all been in politics long enough to recognise that the understanding of language learning in early childhood education, where it is most flexible, is not very long-term. Of course, I'm hurting the scientists who have brought this to the attention, but the big rhetoric hasn't sounded that way. Another thing that must be acknowledged is that early childhood education and national educational materials are at a different level, rather programme-based. They haven't been like school that we start in first class and make sure they're integrated. We are saying that language learning should be integrated with other subjects, but in early childhood education rather later. Now the attitude of local governments and kindergartens. It must also be acknowledged that a certain critical number of parents have already made their choice. They have gone, where possible, to Estonian-language kindergartens and continue to do so. Parents who have stayed with Russian - speaking kindergartens may also have a certain attitude. They do not need to be convinced that Estonian is needed; they have their own fears. The thing they fear most is that they can't handle their own child. I believe you have heard quite a lot about children's brainwashing in political rhetoric over the last three years. Russian parents fear not only losing control, but also that children will move to a new cultural space or create barriers that will no longer allow them to influence their children with their values. So the first and most important thing is to create some kind of program for kindergartens to get parents and local authorities to cooperate. Why did we propose to add one teacher? In order to tell the local government here is your partnership, the state is ready to support you. We'll help you with your refresher training. We're gonna find some help with you guys, figure out how we can find you these teachers. It's not just your problem. We're ready to co-finance it, give it as a deposit to your base. If you find a teacher, you'll come in with your share and we'll give you more money. We do not signal that those teachers who are doing their job very well today are as if they are bad because of their language skills. Nor do we expect teachers, some of whom have worked less, some longer, to start speaking Estonian perfectly overnight. But we're willing to give one to the teacher. The methodology of immersion has also worked well because a certain number of parents have come along. It is clear that there may be a slight increase from 5%, but only a certain number of groups remain to deal with it. Rather, more traditional approaches are preferred. So let's calmly offer this program. I believe that in a few years' time, perhaps quite quickly, we will see whether or not it comes with us. We may feel that it works in Germany, Finland or Sweden, for example, but we do not yet have the readiness to do so. Maybe it's the other way around. That's the one thing that's come up with a proposal from the detectives. The Ministry of Education presented this proposal to the country's budget strategy and received support.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U193	Enn Meri.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U194	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister! You just mentioned the need for teachers to run this program. Do we have enough teachers, and are they good enough?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U195	Thank you, very good question. Early childhood education teacher training continues to be popular. There is competition in our universities, even a competition for early education teachers. So in this sense, there is interest and desire to be a teacher in early childhood education. Do we have enough teachers willing to go to Ida-Virumaa and teach there as an Estonian teacher in the Russian kindergarten group? Suppose there's a kindergarten with five groups. This means that at the same time we need to find five teachers who are ready to move there. This will be a very important question. I believe that it is not a great challenge to find these teachers in Tallinn or Harjumaa, where there are also many Russian-speaking groups, but in the case of Ida-Viru County this becomes an important question. When the country is ready to contribute, I sincerely hope there are teachers. So the answer is that we always have more early education teachers. It is a matter of course whether they are willing to do this very difficult work in the region. Are they able to advise and provide psychological support? After all, there are many other challenges in early childhood education, in addition to language. Early childhood education is not just a preparation for school. This is the first place we notice a special need. This is the first place we usually get feedback about social problems, very often also about very serious family problems. This is a place where, for example, social workers receive a signal when there is something in the family that is out of place. The child is the mirror of his home. In pre-school children's institutions, the teacher has many burdensome tasks. After all, language teaching is clearly one of those tasks. We need to understand what it means to work in a multilingual context. And if you have another cultural background, for example, you have to understand the differences there, maybe explain certain things. It's gonna be a pretty big challenge. However, when you look at the immersion program, we started with some people. Once it was a pilot program that must have taken over three children's institutions and a couple of schools, now we're talking about 5%. Perhaps this growth has not been sufficient, but it has been significant. So if we reached a third of the new programme in a year, for example, the change would already be noticeable.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U196	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U197	Thank you. I think I actually got an answer to my question with the last two answers. But what I'm asking you is, how many of these teachers do we need, how big this deficit is? I imagine if we have more than 600 groups, this number is actually colossal. Training and training these teachers is indeed a very, very big job, which does not go at all quickly. How long have you planned this and how rosy do you see this perspective?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U198	Depends on how to take.. either the sun shines or it's rainy. When the sun shines, it can be said that we have many local governments that have come directly to the minister and said that we will do it together, including in Ida-Virumaa. They've said help us, and we'll tell you honestly what we need. So in that sense, it's a good thing. The numbers are true, we're talking about ideal. Of course, they also change a little: there are currently more than 600 Russian-speaking groups in Estonia, but the reality is that there are fewer Russian-speaking groups every year. There are also those who go to either a partial or a complete immersion or a real Estonian language. There are more groups like this, and the reason is because parents want it. In order to stay in competition, many kindergartens open up either language immersion groups or more Estonian-language groups, precisely because of parents' wishes, otherwise they would go to the secondary day care centre. It's working, too. If it's 600 now, maybe in a few years this movement will be going pretty fast. How ambitious are we? I think we need to set out an ambitious plan. As far as details are concerned, our map shows such a perspective that if the state is prepared to add 1 to 3 million euros per year to the teachers' salaries for finding teachers of the Estonian language in Russian-speaking groups, and the rest would be put by the local government, then basically everything would be covered in a financial sense from a five-year perspective. The country has decided to come up with its first million, and the country's budget strategy has allocated us money for this programme. We also have the money for further training and educational materials, to which the various European programmes are added. There's money for the thread. How many local authorities come along with this? I think I can get back to you pretty soon, already in the fall. By this time, we will see how many municipalities have said to listen, do and map together. So I think we're gonna get those answers pretty soon.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U199	Valeri Korb.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U200	Thank you. Madam Minister! I am a fan of immersion because I had ten years of opportunity to look at one class in Maleva High School, how they graduated and what their language skills were like. But if we open a small group in a class or an orphanage, the most important question is that there's a teacher and an assistant teacher. If there is no assistant teacher, I think it would be a serious problem to call it a immersion. How does the state, the Ministry, view the existence of assistant teachers during these opening processes?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U201	Thank you. In the same way, the method of immersion requires that there are several teachers in the group. Indeed, at present, it is so resolved that there is a teacher and an assistant teacher, and both have a very important role to play. Our ambition is even greater. The state is currently proposing that there should be one teacher in the kindergarten group in addition to that, not just to find the teacher's help, but to find one additional teacher. It also means a different salary. As we know, we keep the same qualified kindergarten teachers and teachers in one paycheck. So the answer to you is that the idea is borrowed from the immersion of the tongue, the goal is borrowed from the immersion of the tongue, but a more ambitious step has been taken. During the period of study, there is no one teacher in the group and the other teacher in the group, or assistant teacher, is aimed at both being teachers and receiving the teacher's salary. And then one extra teacher's half would be covered by the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U202	Thank you to the Minister. I'm opening negotiations. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U203	Mr President! Madam Minister, thank you very much. You endured this four-hour marathon perfectly: you smiled at us here at the end and answered quite adequately. Good people, who are still in the hall! In my opinion, this last round of questions and answers gave us a very fundamental answer. Especially when Mr Külliki asked us how we have these attitudes, I think one very good point came out of the minister's answer, which perhaps has not been so much to say in this Chamber either. We have talked today about what we are all so-called socially unhappy about: there are two parallel universes in society and it will take revenge on the labour market and weaken society as a whole. The reason for this deficit lies in a much deeper sense of society itself. Language learning was started with the attitude that everyone must speak Estonian. Many people learned it, and many failed. Learning a language is not as easy as trying to make friends in this society with that language. In fact, it was probably the long-term reflection, the social background and the understanding of the whole education system as one of the most important foundations of society. The language training needed to become a part of culture should have started already on the part of early childhood education and basic education. But the Minister also rightly said that obviously no one was yet prepared to make such a good sense of the importance of early childhood education, to understand the significance of this throughout the school system. So personally, I received a great deal of socially valid new information and thought from this round of questions and answers on the basis of which to ask new questions and draw conclusions as well. Another important thing is that the Minister responded very specifically about the plans that the Ministry has, i.e. how to start correcting the mistake that has been made and is currently being made. So thank you so much for that. What we want is actually such discussions. It can never be a question of how many representatives of the people are in this Chamber. If the discussion is substantive, I am sure that sooner or later in life we will achieve the great goal behind the discussion and perhaps we may not always be able to formulate well. So I thank all the brave representatives of the people, the very bravely endured minister and the officials who helped us work. These questions actually concerned our entire society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U204	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U205	Good vice chairman! I really would have liked to ask you another question, but since there aren't many people in the hall, I couldn't plant it for anyone. I want to quickly mark another possible place of conflict in Tallinn, perhaps it is good to know it and, in the long run, to think about how to avoid it. This is a question which the Minister pointed out several times: Russian families would be happy to take their children to Estonian-language kindergartens. But the problem with Tallinn is kindergarten places: there are not enough places in Estonian kindergartens to allow Estonian children to go there. As I understand it, both sides of the bilingual groups are grateful because children benefit both ways. This is also positive in terms of the future. My second question would have been whether the Ministry felt that there was a small conflict here at the moment. I will continue with a very good summary by Krista Aru, and I also thank you, because today's last round of questions and answers gave confidence to this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U206	Thank you. The debate on this question is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-16_U207	After we hit the hammer, our microphone gets especially free. [[Hits hard with a hammer. Voices from the floor.]] It was a benevolent hammer strike. There are no requests to speak. I'll see you tomorrow morning at 10:00. Take care! Closure of the sitting at 20:28 p.m.
