ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. We will begin the Monday session of the 4th working week of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Transfer of pre-claims and enquiries. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U2	Good Chairman! The representatives of the Free Party will submit an inquiry to the Minister of the Environment, Siim Kiisler, regarding the activities of the State Forest Management Centre. In fact, as you are all aware, the Spectator brought forward an interesting transaction plan. RMK and Est-For Invest plan to sign a joint intention protocol to create the delivery conditions of the pulp plant without any analysis of the plant, detailed or specific planning or environmental impact assessment. Since, according to my information, the Minister has not taken a position, I think it would be reasonable for us to ask how a possible advance agreement by a public authority will affect the forest market. What could be the interests of the previous and current Chairman of the Supervisory Board of RMK? Does this advance also comply with State aid rules? Is this pre-contractual agreement imposing obligations on the state that will require us to start paying fines for taxpayers' money? And we certainly expect the Minister to assess this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U3	Representative of the Government of the Republic Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U4	Honourable Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching three draft laws today. First, a draft law amending the Law on Bar Associations, the Law on Courts, the Law on bailiffs and other laws. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, when dealing with the bill. Secondly, the draft law amending the consular and identity documents law. In processing this bill in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Foreign Affairs Sven Mikser. And thirdly, the draft law amending the Law on identity documents and on the obligation of departure and refusal of entry, which applies to the European travel document for return. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by Andres Anvelt, Minister of the Interior, when dealing with the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U5	The three drafts adopted and one inquiry shall be dealt with in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Incoming check, please! 82 members of the Riigikogu are present. Honourable Riigikogu! Adoption of the agenda. I shall vote on the agenda for the fourth working week of the VII plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. 79 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of approving the agenda, no one opposed, 1 was impartial. The agenda for the fourth working week is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U6	Let's start according to the agenda. The first item is the inquiry made by Eerik-Niles Kross, Hanno Pevkuri, Urmas Kruuse, Kalle Laaneti, Aivar Sõerdi, Meelis Mälberg, Yoko Alenderi, Madis Millingu, Ants Laaneots, Liina Kersna, Lauri Luige, Jüri Jaanson, Toomas Kivimägi, Urve Tiidus, Arto Aasa, Kristen Michali, Maris Lauri, Terje Trei, Anne Sullingu, Jürgen Ligi, Laine Randjärve, Taavi Rõivas, Remo Holsmer and Kalle Pallingu. On behalf of the heirs, Eerik-Niles Kross, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U7	Good manager! Good Prime Minister! This question is a follow-up to the question of why the Tallinn City Government in particular buys the content of programmes for taxpayers' money on the TV channel PBK. The answers we received from the Prime Minister were quite interesting, but still out of the question. For this reason, before I ask questions of inquiry, I would like to stress that we do not want to know the answer to the question whether or not a politician may or may not give interviews to PBK. That has nothing to do with it. Similarly, whether we advertise smoke detectors in PBK or even whether public authorities are campaigning there for information, where there is really absolutely apolitical safety information. This question does not even concern the election ads purchased with the party's money, but the content of the programmes purchased with public money on the TV channel PBK. This content largely coincides with Moscow's official communication on various issues, such as NATO, our security, Crimea and Ukraine, the Russian minority in Estonia, etc. In the meantime, all parties except the Centre Party are not really a party matter, it is a matter of national security, but I note this, however, that IRL, the Social Democrats, the EKRE, the Free Party and the Reform Party have condemned this practice. But questions to the Prime Minister have been submitted to him as the person responsible for Estonia's broad-based concept of national defence. First of all, why do you consider it appropriate to spend state and local government money on this channel after a series of research results have been published? Especially considering that PBK transmits foreign policy messages from the Russian Federation that contradict Estonia's security interests, not only but often in programmes produced for public money. I would point out that this is the same channel that the uterus produced in the famous news that claimed that the banderans had crucified a Ukrainian boy. A Russian actor performed as the boy's mother. It's used as an example of false news, and it also ran on our evening news at this very PBK. Does the Prime Minister know of any other country in the European Union who would do something similar? Is the Prime Minister familiar with the position of the President of the Republic that this practice should be terminated and is he going to consult the President of the Republic on this matter? Does the Prime Minister consider it right that the capital has a media strategy that is clearly different from the state's communication strategy from its trends? And since the Prime Minister has said about the media channel Sputnik that it is not an independent media tool but a propaganda tool, while the Estonian security authorities have made exactly the same assessment of PBK, what is the result of the Prime Minister's different assessment of these two media channels? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U8	The inquiry is answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U9	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Members of the Riigikogu! Dear heirs, thank you very much for your questioning. If you don't mind, I'll read the questions, too, because I think it's best for you to watch. First, a few thoughts and words for introduction. When you look at the latest Estonian Human Development Report, 92% of the Russian-speaking population regularly monitors Russian media, whether television, radio, news portals or newspapers or newspapers. The media channels in Estonian are regularly monitored by 31% of the Russian-speaking population. The Human Development Report is based on the 2014 survey 'I. The world. Media data. The report states that the media consumption of Estonian residents varies most by nationality or native language and age. Educational and gender differences are considerably lower. Most Estonians follow Russia's media channels rarely or not at all, but one or more Russian channels are regularly monitored by the Estonian Russian audience. Thus, the root problem of this inquiry, which is the lack of a single information space for all residents of Estonia, is not a matter of fresh or overnight origin. From time to time, the subject has risen sharply in the press. In my opinion, however, it is wrong to focus on a study just introduced in Brussels and to highlight the role of only one television channel in Estonia in the reasons for the emergence and maintenance of two different information spaces. We are best helped by a healthy, balanced, integrated and understanding society, in which living nations interact with one another as well as with public and public authorities. I do not believe that cutting off, boycotting or banning an important, observable and reliable information channel (or information channels) for a national minority would help to achieve this healthier, more balanced and understanding society. This would mean that we would no longer be able to reach a significant part of the Estonian population in order to bring them messages, for example, necessary for internal security or internal security. We learn from the monitoring of the integration of Estonian society published last spring that media preference is also linked to a sense of belonging: people with a stronger state identity are more trusting in both Estonian and local Russian-speaking channels. Our strategic goal is to increase people's faith in Estonia and their involvement with Estonia, which is an immeasurably wider task than the mere question of television channels. Trust in local channels cannot be required from anyone on a mandatory basis, it must be earned with high quality content and time. Central government orders and prohibitions aimed solely at the use of "appropriate" channels for the government, but not monitored or watched by the addressees of the notification, do not mitigate risks, but are actually increased. An apartment without a smoke detector burns down as a result of careless smoking even when Peror Baltiski Channel is blocked in the list of TV channels showing the picture in the apartment. Let it be said that in an inquiry, it was called the Perora Pribaltskii Channel. I believe that every public authority must remain able to use all available channels for communication. Open communication, not refusal, ignorance and ignoring the reality of the situation increase confidence. It is certainly important to emphasise one aspect to which Professor Mati Heidmets has also pointed out: only a common information space as a tool is not enough; we also need a message that we want to say to the Russian minority. This message should not be forbidding, commanding, dividing, or teaching proper understanding. This should be a message that recognizes, joins and motivates the Estonian Russians as a valuable and welcome part of our society. I am pleased to note that openness and readiness for dialogue have already contributed to confidence building. It is of little importance that, for example, the study "Public opinion and defence' commissioned by the Ministry of Defence last autumn shows that since autumn 2016, the gap between the trust of Estonians and Russians in the Riigikogu, the government, the Prime Minister and the European Union has been significantly reduced. Now to your questions. The first question: 'Why, after publishing a series of research results, do you consider it appropriate to spend state and local government money on this channel? Especially given that PBK also sends foreign policy messages to the Russian Federation that contradict Estonia's security interests in programmes produced for public money. ' I repeat, the current situation in the Russian media landscape in Estonia is certainly not ideal, but as a country, we are in any case interested in keeping Estonians speaking in Russian in our information room. It is a reality that PBK is the most visible Russian channel in Estonia. For the population as a whole, PBK has around 5.5% of the viewing time, with about 16% of non-Estonians. ETV+ is, unfortunately, still less than a percentage. While ETV+'s Russian-language 'Actual Camera' is viewed by some 13,000 people, PBK's Russian-language Estonian news is held by 53000 people. Therefore, if we want to reach the Russian-speaking population through, for example, internal security campaigns or similar information campaigns, it is not enough to just make recommendations and long-term plans to increase the visibility of ETV+ among the non-Estonian population. Important information needs to reach people here and now through the channels that people actually look at, watch and trust. I can give you an example. The government's communication office asked a media agency to assess the extent to which the media campaign would reach the people if the ordering of advertising on the Russian Federation's television channels were abandoned. It should be noted that the assessment obtained is based on a marketing point of view and does not take into account security policy or other considerations. According to this assessment, the most effective solution for Estonian Russian-speaking target audiences aged 18 to 65 is the combination of different media (whether television, radio, online channels, etc.). If, for example, the four-week advertising campaign was based on all the possible television channels in Estonia, we would reach 82.6% of the target group. In comparison, by not ordering advertising from the Russian Federation's television channels, we would reach 62.4% of the target group, i.e. almost one fifth of the target group, by means of a four-week television campaign. Alternative solutions to these television channels are possible, but their effectiveness in reaching the target audience is certainly lower and cost higher. If the information campaign is to change people's awareness or attitudes, it is necessary to use the channels that are viewed and reached the auditorium. In 2017, public authorities commissioned the following information campaigns from PBK: Firstly, the Consumer Protection Board ordered two information campaigns from PBK with a cost of EUR 4247 and EUR 78 cents. Secondly, the Road Administration bought advertising time from PBK, Ren TV and NTV Mir: 3800 euros for a traffic visa campaign, 5200 euros for a campaign for extracurricular activities, 3000 euros for a drink campaign against management and 3400 euros for a speed limit campaign. Third, the Rescue Board ordered a fire safety campaign from PBK, the message of which is addressed to the residents of the apartment building, the fire knows no boundaries of the apartment. According to the statistics of the Rescue Board, it has become clear that the fires of apartment buildings occur frequently in Tallinn and Ida-Virumaa. Thus, this time an important part of the campaign is also in Russian. PBK's share was 5192 euros and 63 cents, plus VAT. Such information campaigns have been commissioned by public authorities from the Per or Baltic Channel even before the current government took office. For example, in 2015, information campaigns were commissioned by the Rescue Board, the Consumer Protection Board and the Police and Border Guard Board. The second question: 'Do you have any examples that other EU countries would do something similar? ' According to the information I know, the Latvian authorities have also used the Per or Baltiski Channel as one of the communication channels to carry out information campaigns. Also, every Monday from January until the end of July 2017, PBK was broadcast on the 40-minute Euro Parliament's "Eurology" broadcast, which was shown in the three Baltic States. Third: 'The President of the Republic agreed in the Postimees interview on 19.12.2017 that the transfer of public money to unfriendly national television channels, such as PBK, should be stopped immediately. Are you going to consult the President of the Republic on this matter? ' As Prime Minister, I and the Government of the Republic regularly consult the President of the Republic on various matters concerning Estonia's state and society. Question 4: "Do you think it is right that one city has its own media strategy, which is significantly different from the state's communication strategy from its own trends? " The local authorities of Estonia carry out the tasks assigned to them by the Constitution and exercise the power conferred by the Constitution and other laws in accordance with the laws in force in the Republic of Estonia. The government currently in office will certainly adhere to democratic principles and values, such as separation of powers, autonomy of municipalities, decentralised power, guarantee of self-regulation, etc. The Government of the Republic will certainly not prepare strategies for local governments, which are furnished with prohibitions and orders, unless there is a risk that some local government will not act on the basis of the Constitution and in the name of the principles, objectives and thoughts set out in its preamble. The local government solves the problems of its community and organises life in the local interest, under the law in force and in accordance with it. Question 5: 'You have said that Sputnik, an information agency, is not an independent media tool, but a propaganda tool.' Estonian security authorities have made the same assessment of PBK. What is the basis for your different assessment of these two media? ' If we make the simplest comparison with this notorious Sputnik, for example, the Per or Baltiski Canal has been accredited to the press conferences of the Government of the Republic since 2012. As far as I know, they've been there since 2002. The channel has been interviewed by both former and senior government members. Personally, it has not been experienced that my messages or the government's views on press conferences have been deliberately twisted or disseminated into malicious misinformation. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U10	Questions for the Prime Minister. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U11	Thank you, Prime Minister. It is so nice that you have reached the Human Development Report, but unlike your claim that this report, as if it simply acknowledged the different media consumption of Estonians and Russians, it is actually called one of the methods of mental ghettoing the Russians, if I may say so. And the evidence is that Estonians and Russians learn separately, work separately and live separately, and it is non-Estonians who suffer all the time. They earn less, they live less, and their choices are smaller. Tell me if you are just going to admit any individual elements in the description of the situation, or if you are going to do something to get the partition between Estonians and Russians torn down, including in the case of media consumption!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U12	Thank you. I don't think all the partitions that exist in society are gonna do any good. That's point one. Point two: I think that this direction, which was taken a few years ago to develop ETV+, is absolutely correct. I absolutely disagree with those critics who say that ETV+'s viewing capacity is low and should now be closed or stopped supporting it. I think this time has been limited and they need to be given more time to set the plow. So I'm not saying that the situation is perfect right now. I also pointed out in my answers what the facts are about which channels are currently viewed more and which are less. Of course, we want to develop ETV+ further. That's point one. Point two: I think it's very right to break this wall, people have to live in a common flow of information. But we also need to be able to deliver the country's messages through the channels that we currently have to use. I also brought up the same DOD survey last autumn. That's where you used the idea of the wall, that there's actually this wall, I can't say it's broken, but it's gotten smaller, lower. If we look at the estimates of the Estonian-speaking and Russian-speaking population for the various institutions in Estonia, we will see that the difference in trust has decreased, whether it is against the European Union or even against the Defence Forces. So this difference has narrowed, and I think it's a positive trend.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U13	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U14	Thank you. These were, of course, rather shameful views from the Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia, who defends PBK. It's like he thinks it's an independent information channel, and he's giving us some sort of smoke detector ads. We all understand that we are not talking today about any promotions of fire safety or road safety. We are talking about party propaganda for taxpayers' money. We are talking about incitement to hatred, the deepening of salmon and the disinformation of the population. And I believe you actually know that, but it's in the interests of your party. What bothers me, however, is that you continue to deny your role in managing the city of Tallinn. You are the chairman of the Tallinn Council of the Centre Party. You rode in Tallinn as Prime Minister for coalition negotiations, accompanied by flashbooks. You have personally sought relief city heads in Tallinn. And you continue to claim that you do not have the opportunity to stop wasting taxpayers' money in PBK in Tallinn, led by the Centre Party. What's your comment?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U15	Thank you. This question of yours, about ten different things, will surely challenge me to answer it. You resent me for not commenting on what is happening in Tallinn. But if they don't ask about it, what am I gonna say here? Point one: I commented that, in principle, local governments are autonomous for the current government and also for me personally. Point two: you're putting all your emotions on, I don't know whether bitterness or bad feelings in this question and you're banging PBK into the ground. I look at you, Honorable Member of the Riigikogu, Arto Aas. The same channel has been communicating with the country exactly as I know it since 2002. Since 2012, it has been an accredited channel at the press conferences of the Government of the Republic, where you have also been. I think it's a lot more than I am because you've been in the government longer than I have. Then why wasn't it a problem? PBK has done a lot of interviews related to the Estonian Presidency of the European Union. I think this is the right direction. This is the direction of what channels are currently being watched. If, for example, we look at the change in attitudes towards the European Union in the years 2016 to 2017, the difference of trust between Estonian and Russian-speaking populations, we see that this gap has decreased by 11%.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U16	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U17	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Prime Minister! I have concerns about the future of strategic communication specialists working at the Communications Office of the Government of the Republic. How do you intend to provide these strategic communication specialists with a "forced working environment" and objectivity of analyses in a situation where many Estonian media experts and security authorities consider the Per or Baltiski Channel to be a channel representing the interests of Russian propaganda, but the Government of the Republic of Estonia does not consider or avoid a direct statement?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U18	Thank you. If your opinion is that the party you belong to gave orders at Stenbock's house for 17 years about how to behave or what kind of news to be made by the Government of the Republic's Communications Bureau, I think that's not right. I think you have no reason to suspect the Reform Party of this. Believe me, it's still the way they do their job professionally and well. You have highlighted strategic communication, which, unfortunately, has been undecided and unsolved in the country for years. The truth is that real decisions have been made over the last year, with real funding in this year's budget. The team is now being assembled and its leader has been selected. Martin Jashko works for the Communications Bureau of the Government of the Republic. It is believed that 8 to 10 people could be employed there. I hope the team will be assembled from the best people by the end of this year. But if you think that every morning, lunch, or evening the Prime Minister will call there and tell you to send this, second or third message, then that is not the case. When you talk about PBK and giving interviews, I come again to the fact that all prime ministers and all members of the government have not pushed PBK out of this channel at the press conference of the Government of the Republic.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U19	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U20	Thank you, good manager. Good Prime Minister! I very much hope that you actually understand what these questions are about. The question isn't whether you're giving interviews or whether you're watching this channel at home. It is not a question of whether the State has ordered smoke detector advertising or any other form of social advertising. The question is this: I would remind you that you are the Prime Minister of a country belonging to the European Union and NATO, that the members of your party, who are responsible to you in the Council of Tallinn by the party line of the Centre Party in the most direct and immediate way, do not order a very large amount of propaganda from the Central Party for taxpayers' money, which I believe is already unacceptable. They also order programmes where, for example, there are statements that the Crimean referendum was legal, that all 15- to 18-year-old girls have left Estonia, that Estonia is literally a colony, and that the accession to the European Union robbed our country. These are just a few examples of very, very many.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U21	Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U22	Do you approve of ordering such programmes from your party associates?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U23	Thank you, Javier. I'll give you answers according to what you ask me. And if you ask such complicated and confusing questions or read off that paper, it's kind of hard to answer. That's point one. Point two: if it is believed in your political party that Hanno Pevkur, President of the political party, or former chairman of the political party, in your form, says as it should be, and the whole party does so, this is certainly not the case in the Centre Party, it is not the honour. And I would not like to be part of a party where the chairman of the party, Rõivas or Pevkur, says that you should do so, and that is how it goes across Estonia. The Centre Party is broad-based in its governance structure and, at least in my time, it will remain so. Point three: if you ask me what interviews I'm giving there, the last time I gave PBK an interview related to a visit to Great Britain and Ireland. [[Voices from the floor.]] Yes, the Riigikogu has the right, of course, to remove the microphone from the Prime Minister, Mr Ligi, as you asked. If you're saying that I'm watching PBK at home secretly, then no, I'm not a PBK viewer, really not. And when some kind of research comes into which they are interfering with or attacking Estonia from a security or democracy point of view, I unequivocally condemn them. Very simple!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U24	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U25	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Prime Minister! I'm confused. If I understood correctly, the representative of the authors of the inquiry said in his introductory statement that he did not care about the answer to who would be interviewed, or so on. There was talk of ordering specific programmes and their content. In its assessment, the security organisations have made it clear that this is not in the interests of the Estonian state. As Prime Minister and Chairman of the Tallinn Council, do you or do you not consider the security situation? Or what would prevent you, for example, from giving EUR 500000 to ETV+? I cannot accept this situation and I am even more reactive: if security organisations have said that one channel threatens the security of Estonia, I would not actually take a cent of the state's money there. But I'm sure that opinion is outnumbered right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U26	Thank you. Not only do I count, but I act on the basis of the rules and thoughts that come from the security authorities. So you don't have to be worried about it or confused about it. I have given you some examples of which public authorities have ordered programmes from PBK. I can extend it, for example, from 2015 to 2016. We will take the time when the Reform Party was a leading party to the government. And I would like to stress once again that there is no chairman of the Tallinn City Council or mayor of Tallinn before you. The Road Administration has ordered anti-drink management and limit-speed campaigns from PBK. The Rescue Board has ordered campaigns in connection with water safety and fire safety. The information campaigns of the Consumer Protection Board have targeted unfair trading practices. The Police and Border Guard Board and the Consumer Protection Board have also ordered programmes from PBK. All these institutions have commissioned information campaigns for Estonian residents. And if your question to the Prime Minister is whether I will in any way question the orders of these agencies or deplore it, then I will say this: no, I certainly support the order of the Road Administration, the Rescue Board, the Consumer Protection Board and the Police and Border Guard Board.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U27	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U28	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister! What we are talking about is essentially theft of public money in the interest of choosing the Central Party. And it won't be the first time. In 2009, firewood and potatoes were distributed in Tallinn. In 2013, several politicians did pre-election advertising for the city's money. A clear position was also taken on this and that money had to be paid back later. Tell me how you appreciate all this, and don't pretend we're talking about anything else here! As a politician of the influential Central Party, did you ever say to Edgar Savisaar that this is not the case, so it must not be public theft?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U29	Thank you for your emotional question. Public theft is unmistakable, there is no justification for it. That's point one. Point two: if you say that a local authority has acted or is acting in the context of public theft, the authorities concerned must be informed and investigated without delay. I certainly do not support any public theft or the theft of public money, as you defined it. I think that we have very competent research institutions in this Estonian country who must, in any case, investigate these matters.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U30	Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U31	Thank you. Good George, repetition is the mother of wisdom. I repeat, just in case, that your questions do not apply to the fire department, the Road Administration, social media, social services or the singing party. These questions are not about the usual interviews that PBK is conducting at a government press conference, or about how you feel about singing in one language or another at a song festival somewhere on the street. The questions concern targeted and purchased programmes that speak of things that are hostile to the Estonian state. On Friday, I had an hour's interview on Radio 4 with the 'Odin na odin', where the Russian-speaking lady asked me why the Estonian state did not ban PBK on Estonian territory, because such terrible programs would come from there. I suggest you, George, look at PBK, don't say...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U32	Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U33	...that you wouldn't look. Look, because then you'll find out what's going on in there! My question is why the money bought from PBK for whatever delivery time it takes to inform things could not be directed to ETV+, for example.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U34	Thank you. First, point one: I really think that the time for a society of such orders and prohibitions could begin to come to an end. Point two: I also think that if we close some kind of television channel or medium, the result will be practically close to zero, given the current very well-developed digital society, social media, the internet and its spread. Point three: Could ETV+ be... You bring in local government all the time. Once again, you should ask these questions in the City Council, for example, through your group. As far as I am concerned, the State Chancellery was an institution where I am currently working on the last subscription to PBK related to 'Estonian Republic 100'. And we do not intend to order any information campaigns from PBK. You said repetition was the mother of wisdom. I specifically answered the fourth question, and I will stick to what I said. I said this: 'Estonia's local authorities carry out the tasks assigned to them by the Constitution and exercise the power conferred by the Constitution and other laws in accordance with the laws in force in the Republic of Estonia. The government currently in office will certainly adhere to democratic principles and values, such as separation of powers, autonomy of municipalities, decentralised power, guarantee of self-regulation, etc. '
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U35	Eerik-Niles Kross, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U36	Good manager! Good Prime Minister! Your introductory remarks may be very much in agreement, but unfortunately this did not particularly concern the questions we have asked. Nobody wanted to shut down PBK and we didn't want to cut off the information channel, as you said. You're still reluctant to talk about the content of these programs that you buy for public money. I will read you a quote and ask you whether this message corresponds to the communication strategy of Estonia towards the Russian minority or is in any way in line with Estonia's interests: 'As regards the events in Ukraine, hysteria has taken over Estonia. The only man who kept his head sober on the background of this sixth ward is Savisaar, who said whether Ukraine's democracy or not. What are you doing for the Crimea, where people went to referendum and voted as needed? What occupation are you talking about? ' This message has been bought with the money of the city of Tallinn and forwarded to the Russian-speaking viewer of Estonia. How do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U37	Disgustingly. A hundred percent deplorably.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U38	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U39	Thank you, President-in-Office. Prime Minister! Yes, PBK has really been to government press conferences, being a member of the government's communications office, I know this, but these are very different things, whether a member of the government gives an interview to PBK or whether the government department orders programmes bought from an anti-Estonian TV channel. These are two basically very different things. My question is this: you said here to Eerik-Niles Kross that you deplore it, but do you also condemn it within your party? Do you have any authority in your party to say that ordering such programmes isn't okay in the Centre Party?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U40	Thank you. I don't know what to compare this authority with. If it's compared to your party chairman, I doubt it. I don't know how to make that assessment. But if you ask me if I deplore what Mr. Kross asked about, yes, of course. And I have said this not only here in the Riigikogu's speech chair, but also at the meetings of my political party or any kind of conference, very loudly, very clearly and very forcefully! So about this question of authority, you have to assess it yourself. I don't know how to bring this rating scale between the chairman of your party and me. Maybe Mart Helme says that this isn't at all an authority assessment scale. But when we talk about Ukraine and serious things, I think it makes sense to everyone that this is not a playground. We are talking about an important partner and a very friendly country towards Estonia, which we support. Their territory is currently engaged in acts of war. I haven't been in contact with the President of Ukraine since Thursday. We also talked about the current situation in Ukraine, and I said that Estonia fully supports the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Ukraine and will do everything in its power to contribute to it. True, the reason for the phone conversation was related to our entrepreneurs and our economic space and the so-called blacklist. I am pleased that this issue has been resolved.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U41	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U42	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Prime Minister! Last autumn, our group initiated a draft law according to which only the citizens of the Republic of Estonia could vote in local elections. Unfortunately, it did not find support in this hall, but this topic was also discussed in PBK's 'Estonian News', which has been ordered by Tallinn City Government for taxpayers' money. And the City of Tallinn is known to be run by the Centre Party. 'In Estonian news' also commented on this issue from the central party of the Riigikogu, Igor Kravtšenko, whom I am now quoting: 'We have the decision of the party council, according to which we are going to strive to ensure that all owners of grey passports will also have voting rights in parliamentary elections. Moreover, the coalition we led has already taken several steps in this direction. ' Please comment on the steps taken by the current government to give voting rights to all non-citizens in parliamentary elections.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U43	Thank you. The self-governments are governed by those who have been entrusted with the highest authority. In the city of Tallinn, which we are talking about, the Central Party really earned the greatest mandate in the last municipal elections on 15 October 2017. And thank you for that! You asked me what this message was. As far as the current coalition is concerned, it is true that it has been our wish that grey passports will no longer be issued in Estonia so that this issue will be resolved. Personally, I was in opposition, and I still believe in the coalition that the fact that there are 70000, 75000 or 80000 grey passports in Estonia is actually a problem that needs to be resolved. I would also like to stress here that this does not mean, as has sometimes been interpreted, zero citizenship or that everyone is sent home with a post Estonian passport and citizenship. I'm sure that's not the case. The acquisition of citizenship requires that a person applies for it and is loyal to the state of Estonia and its order, our constitution and laws. But we have also said that this applies only to those people who had nothing to do with the army or services of the former Soviet Union and those who lived in Estonia before 20 August 1991. If you ask whether the current coalition has agreed to expand, for example, electoral opportunities in the European Parliament elections, the answer is no such agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U44	Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U45	Thank you, Chairman. Good Prime Minister, I do not agree with one of your assessments when you responded to the chairman of the largest group so that you could be taken away from the microphone. This can still be done only on the basis of the Riigikogu's working and Rules of Procedure, be it a colleague in the remote control or even more so the Prime Minister. However, I agree with a hundred percent of your assessment of local governments, because our local authorities are a constitutional institution and these decisions can really only be made by local councils. But I'm asking for your assessment of the ETV+ channel. Would ETV+ currently have been significantly more visible if ETV2, which was actually created as a channel in Russian or other languages, had been preserved as such? This survival was not guaranteed by the party that is asking the most right now. And there are also the greatest number of people in this party.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U46	Thank you. I think it's the law of the house and the rules of procedure. But I sincerely believe that this microphone must be given where the Riigikogu decides to give it. Now this is ETV2 versus ETV+. I think that it is not good to do something about an important question and then to leave it out halfway. In this case, it is actually a question of how we can take the information flow from the government, the state agencies, etc. to the Russian-language information room. I don't think it's right that this road was broken. True, there was ETV+. I, too, said right from the beginning, in reply to the first question, that I do not, under any circumstances, consider it appropriate to finish the work of ETV+. Such a proposal is in the air because it is not very viewed, the percentage of viewing is low. Some may even have a little ironization over it. I don't see why. I think, on the contrary, that ETV+ must be moved forward; it must be developed further. We have had little time to bring it to the public, and we must all work together. So breaking off some side of the road is, I think, wrong. It could have gone on back then, too. Now we have ETV+ and I will give out a message that the current government will certainly not shut it down.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U47	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U48	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! I understand that you are relatively uncomfortable, because you also represent here the position by which you pursue a two-faced policy towards the Russian community and the Estonian people. You want to like us and talk about how we are in NATO and the European Union. At the same time, you also want to like your main prefect, the Russian-speaking population, and you are therefore forced to justify the use of PBK. My question, however, is very fundamental. Do you not think that in the 27th year of re-independence in Estonia, it is time to stop keeping segregation society alive, to step up radical and courageous just I stress the word'security' steps to bring the Russian-speaking population into the Estonian-language space of information and everyday life, and to stop making all the promises relating to gray-passed or Russian, etc.? This is precisely the practice that your party actually pursues.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U49	Thank you, Mr. Helme. I honestly say that the Prime Minister cannot be the kind of person who comes to this honourable Riigikogu speech chair with the aim of liking, as you said, you and the other questioners. I come here with information, and I've come from the fact that as Prime Minister, you always have to be on the ground with two legs and keep the balance line. You can't go into emotions, you can't go to one extreme or another, it wouldn't be right. And I really think that solidarity in Estonian society would need more in every direction. Now, on the other hand, your question. First of all, to comment: I think that each party must give the same messages, whether in Estonian, Russian, English or any other language. This is the principle that I have followed, and I will continue to follow in the future. We must create these conditions with you to increase the information space in Estonian, to bring more and more people who live in Estonia. These are the efforts that we must make in cooperation. And I think the debates we're having here today or tomorrow somewhere on the street, in the day center, or anywhere, are very welcome. This is, in my opinion, the right time to hold such debates, and on this basis, people should also give their preference. In any case, I support what you said to bring more and more people into the Estonian environment. I think you meant the Russian-speaking residents who live here in Estonia. The question is, where does it all start? Does it start with ETV+ or does it start somewhere else? I think it starts at home. I think it starts in kindergarten. I think it starts with school education. I took out the data: we should have a little over 100 Russian-language kindergartens in Estonia right now. I think that everything actually begins when we are much better and much more effective in bringing Estonian language learning to Russian kindergartens, not in such a way that someone loses their job there, but in order to bring more Estonian language education there. For example, I consider it very important that this should not only take place on a kindergarten basis, but perhaps also on a group basis. I think it all starts there, Mr. Helme. But I think it actually starts when we go on with ETV+ together. And it begins even if we do not divide society and say once that the numbers I hope you memorized them are very clearly speaking this language, that the confidence gap between the Russian-speaking and Estonian-speaking population has decreased in Estonia. It's been reduced in assessments of the Defence Forces. We are talking about the credibility of the institutions, i.e. whether the people trust them or not. Trust has increased. This gap has been reduced in the case of the Defence Union and has been reduced in the case of the European Union. This has been reduced in the case of the President and also in the case of the Riigikogu. It has also narrowed the gap between the government and the Prime Minister. You could say that this change is about 10%, and I think it's a pretty positive step.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U50	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U51	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Prime Minister! Yes, this is a very nice discussion and consultation here, we have a very good talk to take over. My question is that if we want the Russians to be in the Estonian-language information room and use Estonian every day in Estonia, how does ETV help. I'm sorry, but there's no way we can go on together here. I think that ETV+ is a complete waste of money. 60000 people, half of whom are Estonians, look at it and it costs EUR 5 million a year. But I will come back to the same question that was already mentioned here. We are likely to have a slightly different understanding of what is or is not incitement to hatred or what is the sowing of national hatred. For me, however, it is quite obvious that the Russian television channels here are quite systematically engaged in encouraging national hatred, creating an anti-Estonian atmosphere at all. Do you think there may be situations in Estonia that require that a channel be closed even temporarily? Do you at least agree theoretically that such a need might arise?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U52	Theoretically, I'm sure you can admit it. I'm not gonna disprove it. On the other hand, I certainly do not share your view that ETV+ should be closed. Let's keep thinking, let's fantasize for a second. All right, ETV+ is closed, closed. After all, the question arises as to how the information reaches the Russian-speaking population who lives in Estonia. Yes, I agree with Mr Helme, I mean Mart Helmet, who said that we should increase the information space in Estonian so that there are more people there. But we don't do it from day to day, we don't do it in a week, we may not even be able to do it in a year. Of course, we have to move this way all the time. Basically, we will have Radio 4, which really works well, and the private media, which, in my opinion, is also doing quite a grateful job, but above all online. Quite a few Russian-speaking people say that for them the problem is that no Russian-speaking newspapers are issued every day in Estonia. We've seen that if the private media have done this, he has at one point had to decide differently. This is probably due to market conditions, i.e. the issue of a paper sheet cannot simply be kept alive. I agree with your statement that such discussions are enjoyable at this meeting or meeting. I think that these are, in any case, a very necessary problem, after all, there is clearly a problem in Estonian society. I'm not denying the problem, but I think the solutions are different. My idea is certainly not that we must shut down 25% of the Estonian population from the information room with these solutions. On the contrary, they must in any case be kept in our information room. Let me give you another example. I must admit that PBK is one of the most diligent questioners when it comes to the Estonian Presidency, 'Estonian Republic 100' or our very active role in foreign policy, including European Union policy, for which I personally stand. It's true.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U53	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U54	Good Prime Minister! The founder and honorary chairman of my party has said that one of the important motives for giving an interview is that you are being asked for it. That's why I've not only been happy to interview PBK, but I've also been to Moscow live with Mikhail Veller and Peter Tulvis. It was always cool, so we got killed, so we got chucked. So let's not confuse interviews and politics, and that's why I'm asking right now. The activity of PBK on Estonian territory is unfortunately legal. The bill against me and Rait Marust was dropped here. Estonia does not recognise electronic aggression, although we wanted it to be legal. That is the case, but as the chairman of the party, do you report that ordering political advertising from PBK is not to legalise it, but to approve the attitude that this channel represents? One thing is legal, and the other is attitude. And it's not the Prime Minister's question, it's the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U55	Thank you. I've been asked these interviews, too, and of course I'm giving them interviews. Honourable Riigikogu, it seems to me that when we talk about the joint interaction of Russian-speaking and Estonian-speaking populations here in Estonia, we are now in a pretty good position. We have achieved this balance with all the parties that are here and, of course, with the parties that are not in the Riigikogu, with the help of the third sector. I think it's important. Balance and coherence between the two communities is important and we must look at it from the spectrum of 1.3 million Estonian inhabitants. Once again, we are discussing how to increase the popularity of ETV+, which is very positive. But these discussions are still going to the political key to supporting one language group, one of you, which, in my opinion, is a very big sign of danger. As Prime Minister and Head of Government, I would certainly like us to be able to maintain this balance and value. Once again, this study has not been commissioned by any party, not even the State Chancellery. The Department of Defense has ordered it from Turku research. And if you compare the years 2016 and 2017, I think there are good trends. They're good!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U56	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U57	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Prime Minister, I will raise my hat in front of your ability to answer questions without being answered. Really great! Unfortunately, it is not statesmanly, just as it is not statesmanly to take taxpayers' money directly to the cashier of the anti-Estonian channel. This analysis, which has been much discussed today, shows that, before the local elections, the Centre Party was repeatedly approved every month from different angles, albeit in news programmes and elsewhere. So it could be quite frankly said that the Centre Party and PBK are like stockings and boots are inseparable. You really don't seem to have any sense of conscience in you to admit that this behavior is still inappropriate...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U58	Thank you. Thank you. Time's up.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U59	...the government and prime minister parties.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U60	Thank you. The first part of your question was very dynamic. I tried to follow it, and I wanted to give you a specific answer, but unfortunately the end of the question went a little blurry in the absence of time. Once again, any anti-state, anti-security policy attitude on any television channel is deplorable, and I certainly do not support it. I also replied very unambiguously to Mr Kross, who pointed out a specific quote that it is, in any case, deplorable.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U61	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U62	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I come to the answer to that very last question. Every politician's term of office has a beginning and an end. The prime ministers will undoubtedly go down in the history of Estonian politics. And if you ever look back at this office, will there be any time for you to tell the Russian auditorium that the sources of information must be critical that this was a lie that was said there? Eerik-Niles Kross gave an excellent example here that don't believe everything, friends. Has there been a moment like this, or is it coming? Can it be said afterwards that you have said that all the things that come from PBK cannot be believed, even if they have been bought in Estonia, for example, with local government money?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U63	Thank you. I do not know if this question was widely about the media or just one media channel. I understand that this question was not about Postimees, Delfi, ETV or ERR. Was that just about PBK? In any case, I say, if I can afford it, that sometimes a journalist is wrong. It's true. And if he is seriously wrong about the security policy's foundations, the security policy's certainty, then of course it must be responded to. It certainly has the authorities and the people on the payroll who react very quickly, including the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U64	Martin Repinski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U65	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Prime Minister, please correct me if I'm wrong! Am I right to understand that according to statistics, PBK in Estonia is, in any case, viewed very actively? That's one. Secondly, as I understand it, the problem for the heirs is as follows: they claim that negative information is transmitted from the point of view of Estonia's security in PBK. Their aim is for the Russian-speaking people of Estonia to receive positive information that is right and good for our country and our security. In such a situation, would it not be logical to do the opposite, so that Estonian municipalities and public authorities provide more information precisely via this television channel? Let's just say that in that case, there would be less information on the mother channel.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U66	Thank you. First of all, about the statistics that were the first half of the question. I have already pointed out that if, for example, ETV+'s Russian-language 'Actual Camera' is viewed by 13,000 people, then PBK's Russian-language Estonian news is held by 53000 people. I've also asked for statistics on other PBK programs. And as incredible and surprising as it may be, more Estonian news will be seen in PBK than in Vremja, for example. Now, the point two, which you have pointed out, is the security aspect. I will also go back to Mrs Tiidus's question in my reply. I remember my last interview with PBK was on Wednesday. I was at the Estonian embassy in London at the time and gave an interview, which were the points of discussion and the points of negotiation with UK Prime Minister Theresa May. I did not say that there were only these and these points, but I also mentioned the issue of security. So all the media have to be told the right thing to say, that's the truth. Do you want to buy more advertising in PBK? Really, things don't work in our country, so the Prime Minister says, "Get this job, this job, this job or this job." As I said, if you have the expectation that I will somehow crucify the Rescue Board, the Consumer Protection Board, the Road Administration or the 'Estonian Republic 100' team or resent them why they have bought real time from PBK for information campaigns, I will certainly not do so. Do we plan to purchase advertising time for the information campaign centrally in the State Chancellery? No, there's no plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U67	The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions about this question to the Prime Minister. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the heirs, Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U68	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Eerik-Niles Kross formulated the content of this inquiry very accurately when he came here and asked for the Prime Minister not to talk again about the smoke detectors, the Road Administration and the interviews to PBK, but only to talk about the fact that PBK has purchased programmes that are anti-Estonian by stealing taxpayers' money. This is not just about one quote, as the Prime Minister said. We have at least two pages of quotes that mock the Estonian state, the West, Ukraine, previous governments. These are basically hostile estimates that have been bought for the money of the stablers, including myself and Eerik, a lot of people in this hall. What did we expect? We hoped that the Prime Minister of Estonia, the Prime Minister of NATO and the Member of the European Union, the chairman of an Estonian party and the chairman of the Tallinn Council of this party would give some meaningful answer to the the thefts and texts that will be presented there in PBK. Only once or twice he said, yes, he deplores some small thing, but the overall assessment was still not given by the man. And this is the same man I call him a man because he has several jobs at once, who travels as Prime Minister to negotiate with the blinkers on Tallinn. There is no doubt that it is his job drive, one profession and one view of the world. We got answers that we could make a long story about, but of course it's complicated on the move. In principle, we received these answers: however, the Road Administration and the smoke detectors, interviews have been given to PBK since 2002, see what you are, we have gained the public's trust, and we ourselves, with reference to the Chairman of the Council, decide what is right, because the voters have made us decide. This is, in fact, quite a tough question as to why the Prime Minister does not want to appear wise or relevant, even with a conscience. We had a separate question as to whether, for example, you have consulted the President who has condemned this practice. From there came the'serious and more pronounced' answer that we would consult the President on a wide range of issues. And all of this was answered. These phrases could be rewritten and simply compared to whether they would somehow give a higher score than two in assessing some kind of logic. One answer was that the most important thing about PBK was not to look at the "Vremjat," but to the news from Estonia. This is exactly what we are talking about, that the news is not objective or friendly, that some of the programmes have been bought with our money and that there is anti-Estonian propaganda. But he brought the statistics that you can see, the most viewed from PBK is the Estonian news. This is what we are most afraid of, that it will wash the minds of Estonian viewers and do it in the interests of the Kremlin. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U69	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U70	Thank you. I liked that the Prime Minister started answering with quotes from the Human Development Report, even mentioning kindergartens. But his view was still such that we needed to improve our language training. He does not like that the tone is that who supports the Estonians and who supports the Russians. Actually, it's black and white impudent. The main path of the Human Development Report is that one of the most difficult problems facing Estonian society is the separation of two ethnic groups. It doesn't necessarily start with PBK, it starts with kindergartens. And that means "spiritual ghettoization." They may not be using this word compound, I might steal a little from other discussions, do not remember by heart, but in principle the report still describes that Estonians and Russians are starting education from different kindergartens, although, according to later studies, 71% of Russian parents would like to have the opportunity to put their child in Estonian kindergarten. They're living more and more apart. They're working more and more separately. They do worse jobs, and what they deny, they get lower wages. Their health is worse. [[We were talking about Russians.]] This is actually the result of building a barrier between the two language groups. After all, PBK is one of the masons who keeps laying that wall so that people live separately and think differently, but the Prime Minister does not answer that question. Instead of turning kindergartens and schools into Estonian, he talks here consistently about learning Estonian, which still means learning in separate groups. It recognises the differences in media consumption as a fact, but endorses it. It does not, in fact, make an assessment that this practice should be changed and should not be deepened for taxpayers' money. We have a lot of colorful quotes from this program that PBK bought. I don't know what form we're going to deliver them in: maybe in a slightly more literary or artistic form, or in writing as quotations. We'll decide. But basically, we should get rid of one thing, so that we don't have at least the kind of spiritual ghettoism that the Prime Minister comes here and talks about the subject, just doesn't answer the questions and accepts what we say because it's in his party interest. Mr. Prime Minister, please observe what is being asked of you. Please, from Wednesday to today, it has failed to answer the questions that are being asked to you! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U71	Martin Helme, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U72	Dear Speaker! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is important to highlight some of the things about this whole PBK issue that, as I think, the government or the Prime Minister does not understand now or is denied. The first and most important thing is that we have a party of the Prime Minister in Estonia, which is not just the sin of one party, who systematically sends different messages to different auditoriums: there are some messages for Estonians; there are other messages for the Russians. It is, in itself, perhaps common politically elsewhere in the world, that different target groups are told exactly what is important to them, but we are dealing with a background system that makes it extremely dangerous. In our case, we are very quick to reach this slippery path, where we are already talking about the threat of security to Estonia or the dismantling or undermining of the state's idea as recorded in the preamble to the Constitution. In such a situation, there can be no tolerance that we have such a message to the Russians, we all know the message of the Centre Party, that we are the only ones who care about you, that we give you here the opportunity to gain citizenship without any particular effort, and that we will make sure that you do not start learning Estonian, because you can do all your business in Russian. These are things that are directly contrary to the principle of a nation state provided for in the Estonian Constitution, but such a message is systematically sent out by the Centre Party, concealing it from the Estonian electorate very jealously. Another important thing: I understand that ministers cannot say it so directly, the Prime Minister even less, but we all know that there is no friendly neighbouring country next to us. I'd go even further and say there's a hostile neighboring country next to us. Next to us is a country that has started a war with two of its neighbours over the last ten years. And the cause of these wars has been the same, i.e. the collection of pieces of their former empire. Perhaps Russia is not a friendly country for Estonia, it is not a friendly policy from the point of view of Estonia, but it is clear, acute and, in my opinion, an ever-increasing security threat. We all know that Russia is not a free country. There's no such thing as freedom of the press. There is no such thing as freedom of speech. There is official, state propaganda, which must be taken into account by all the media operating in Russia. At best, they'll be able to open up a little bit there, but basically, all Russian television channels are engaged in mediating national, Russian chauvinist propaganda. And the Russians in Estonia, whether they are Russian citizens, gray people or Estonian citizens, are in the influence of this hostile, poisonous propaganda (again we will get back to it) is dangerous to Estonia's security and statehood. Now we're getting to the ad from PBK. I must say again, for the sake of honesty, that the Centre Party is not the only one who buys advertising from Russian channels, but he is the most diligent. And he will, of course, do so, as is usual in the case of central party governments, with taxpayers' money, which is still particularly disgusting. This is their practice, which has come from them and which they use most in mass, legitimizing the anti-Estonian activities on the territory of Estonia. The Central Party legitimizes Putin's propaganda and large Russian chauvinism on Estonian territory and keeps the Russians here under the influence of this information. It's criminal, to be honest. How do you fight it? Very simply. Lithuania has done so and Ukraine has done so. Today, it is extremely easy to remove the broadcasting licence, simply to shut down the translation. You don't even have to do it with some broad curve to all the channels, right now. They are monitored very closely, and all channels from which some of the programmes, where history is distorted, are dealt with inciting hatred between nations, ridiculing or undermining Estonian statehood, will be banned in Estonia for three months or six months. Every media specialist says that if you're taken away from your usual channel, you're moving to another channel. This is the answer to how we can take the Russians in Estonia to the Estonian information field. We take away the poison tube they're on, and they come quietly without a special appetite, but they come out of the Estonian information field. This Estonian information field does not have to be in Russian, or it does not have to be ETV+, where we bury a huge sum every year. This amount is about the same as the total annual budget of our private television channels, although ETV+ has 30,000 Russian viewers on a regular basis. Basically, we could hire someone for every person to go home and talk to them about something if we shut down that channel and spend the money differently. It's just not a sensible thing to do. So if you ask how we can get these Estonian Russians into Estonia's information space in any way, the answer is very simple: we will shut down Putin's propaganda pipes at first on a temporary basis, but if necessary, the people will be there for longer. I'm not just talking about television channels, it's possible to close down information portals from across the border. This is absolutely feasible; it requires political will. This is how we reach, of course, not overnight, not once and not all, but more and more Estonian Russians. I fully agree with this part of the Prime Minister's story, according to which it is necessary to gradually switch to Estonian in kindergartens, but I do not know what has been done so far, i.e. 27 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U73	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U74	Mr. Chairman! Members of the Riigikogu! Prime Minister! I'm sorry it took a lot of time in this discussion to figure out what the questioners didn't really ask. The questioners certainly did not ask whether or not anyone was attending the press conferences of the Government of the Republic. They didn't ask about the smoke detectors or some kind of government social advertising. In my opinion, the Russian media in Estonia or which channel is being monitored are not even relevant. There is one very important question here, and exactly two questions of security are also important. But the most important question for me is the content purchased from the broadcasting channel for public money. In Estonia, there is a general agreement that public money is used to finance Estonian National Broadcasting, which has editorial independence, i.e. the content of which no political party, no city government, no ministry can buy or dictate. This is the concept of a balanced media, but in reality, these transactions are far from that. I remember that there was a period in Estonia when a couple of ministries started buying environmental news from Estonian Television, where the minister also appeared on the screen at least once in a quarter of an hour. It was a relatively mediocre and bad time, but this thing was closed. What happens to public money in Tallinn if it is transferred to PBK and purchased from it a rather biased program, including news programmes? As has been proven, more than 90% of the Tallinn-Politics of the Centre Party are shown there. I'll stick to it as stealing. And this is stealing from three aspects. Firstly, public money is being stolen in the interests of the party, secondly, voters' votes are being stolen on their competitors, this is not an option, and thirdly, the hostile propaganda channel is actually stealing our public money, while we could support our independent channels. Now, speaking of having to get to people, that's all the nice talk that's been said here in the meantime. See, if we do not have it otherwise defined in law, then one concept exists in Estonian law. I am not saying that this is the best-lucked concept in the world, but there is a concept such as the 'active period of election agitation'. This period begins on the day of the transfer of the electoral lists and, from then on, the public media will also monitor the balance requirements with special care. And yet we have one place where you can do anything for the money of the city of Tallinn, you can do a completely unbalanced and developed program in one direction. Civilization of political space and culture is an arduous process. I had no reason to recall 2009 when Edgar Savisaar offered firewood and potatoes to our own people with a large media campaign, or 2013 when Tallinn's district elders, assistant mayors and mayor himself ordered various outdoor advertising and video ads with some kind of clips, where they advertised the walk and didn't know what else. It is uniquely qualified for public money for an election campaign. I do not see that this purchase of PBK broadcasts in the pre-election period would be otherwise qualified. That's the big problem: why are we doing this? It is not worth pretending that we are talking here about Estonian and Russian media or smoke detectors. We are talking about stealing public money for party policy purposes, which must eventually end in Estonia. I would still like to get an answer from Jüri Ratas about his attitude towards the earlier acts that have been done under the leadership of Edgar Savisaar, and for which it seems that they are being carried on in Tallinn under the leadership of Kõlvart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U75	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U76	Good manager! Good Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I've been listening to these answers. At first, I thought I'd ask you something, but then I found that it really doesn't make sense, because there's not going to be a substantive answer anyway, which is sad, but also a little offensive. This is insulting to the Riigikogu, not a little, but quite a lot of the members of the Riigikogu, when questions are asked, because there is a concern, they want answers, but there will be no such answers. I tried to think about how a person who doesn't know these connections and topics in depth, perhaps completely ignorant from the side. He probably gets the feeling that the questioner doesn't understand the questions for some reason: he doesn't know if he can't hear or if he's having trouble understanding or what's going on. But we know what this is about. The point is that it is difficult for the Prime Minister to answer these questions honestly, because then it should be acknowledged that very many things have been seriously and seriously wronged. You might also think, as I said earlier, that the Prime Minister is condescending, derogatory to the members of the Riigikogu. I hope that's not the case. I believe that when the Prime Minister comes to this remote control, he says no, that's not the case, but unfortunately that's exactly what it's all gonna look like. It is bad that we are concerned that the Prime Minister's party is buying advertising for its party and also propaganda from a hostile channel for us. Please, Prime Minister, think about it. This is a serious concern, it is a threat to our country. I understand it's hard for you to admit it publicly. Take action slowly and do not come and tell me if it is so difficult. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U77	Helmut Hallemaa, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U78	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! The subject is very serious in itself, and I agree with Maris Lauri that we really should have respect for each other here. I, rather than the Prime Minister, who has mostly been very polite here, have enjoyed this 'visit' for quite a number of colleagues, and some of them have actually spoken on the same subject today. So let's be respectful and polite to each other. Propaganda cannot be combated by propaganda, but there have been quite a number of speeches here today which have meant the emergence of genuine propaganda. I am particularly happy to be in a party where everyone else knows how this party should work, how this party does one, two and three things. But let us also look back in time (the reason why I asked one question about history before) - this TV channel did not arise today and it did not start broadcasting yesterday, it has been very long and there have been no problems. Now, speaking of ETV+ and ETV2, there were some interesting arguments in this hall. One party that led the government has set up a channel in other languages twice in national broadcasting, and the other opposition party does not consider that channel to be necessary at all. In fact, it is also necessary to provide information in this other language, and that is why I very much liked the Prime Minister's response to ETV+. I, too, believe that support for this channel must certainly be provided; it must be supported. For God's sake, don't stop everything now to rebuild things from scratch in a few years. However, I have quite a concern about the issue of local governments, which is not being mistreated here for the first time today. Unfortunately, high civil servants have also erred against the spirit of the Constitution and also against the content of the Constitution in quite a number of recent speeches. Municipalities and municipalities are a constitutional institution in Estonia and still make their own decisions. Therefore, we really have no right to tell them here what to do or not to do, whether it be about Tallinn, Viljandi or Valga. We can all belong to both the Riigikogu and the local government councils from last autumn. Local councils certainly work, and all of us, when we are on the side of the so-called councils, have the right to make proposals there. I am addressing a particular good colleague, Andres Herkel, because he is not only present here as a member of Andres Herkel or one of the Riigikogu, but is still the chairman of the Riigikogu's anti-corruption commission. To say sentences here who have stolen and who have not, I don't think it's right. If there are such doubts or doubts, there are completely competent bodies in the Estonian country to investigate these matters. These things should be made clear there, not to say one, two or three at random on this console. With regard to this channel, too, one control body has actually initiated an investigation. And is this not what is going on here to affect one collection, so that this whole, or Political Financing Monitoring Commission, will take one, another or a third decision? So we're in different roles here. The Chairman of the Anti-Corruption Commission plays a very important role and should also monitor and monitor such statements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U79	Igor Gräzin, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U80	I'm based on a assumption that certainly isn't true, but it sounds like: forgive them, because they don't know what they're doing. The Centre Party doesn't understand what they're doing. Let's assume that, and let's take a good look at it. How do you make television? Push the button on, and then you will see how television is done: you will make sure that 90 to 95% is essentially entertainment in one way or another. If you see 'Suriku adventures' or 'Volga-Volga' there, it's pretty much no matter if it comes from Sputnik, ETV or BBC, it's still good old Volga-Volga, and there's nothing you can do about it. 95% of real air time is filled with Volga-Volgat, and I have to say that PBK has Volga-Volga and Shurik adventures often been chosen with a better taste than ETV. True, however, the best taste is ETV+, which is watched by Estonians precisely because there is a normal, even very good selection of films and programmes. But everything is actually done for the remaining 5%, which first includes the TV channel's income from the sale of advertising. In case we are dealing with a national media and propaganda channel, in this case, the Russian State will put its resources in its 2% to 3%, which is a "normal" time beyond the air time and, in fact, a time for advertising. And then what happens? That's what happens when we buy ourselves into the 5% that is commercial or political advertising, we buy ourselves on the political stage. They're connected. No one remembers Volga-Volgat, but we remember what news and comments came before or after. I come back to this example, which is why Veller and Tulvis and I dared to go to PBK to Jevgeni Solovyov or Vladimir Solovyov. There was a very simple reason. Yeah, it was awful, but one important thing was that whatever they were doing there, we were on the air, it wasn't possible to cut anything out. We figured if we even lost that yelling there, look at it, it's a zoo, at least somebody's seen somewhere that we were fighting and telling the truth. If we're dealing with these channels, Sputnik is a particularly drastic example, but also PBK, even if we genuinely buy ourselves on that platform, we will legalize this platform as such. You see, this is about our attitude. We say that Russia is not democratic, it is not that, it is not that and it is not possible to have such or different dialogue with Russia. That's one thing. But the other thing is that we're going right where the people we're basically having a hard time finding something in common are talking to. They are not a second opinion, which would be positive, but an opinion that precludes our opinion, i.e. there is no dialogue. I didn't want to give you this example, but now we've come this far. I mean, we have PBK and Sputnik who extend their friendly hand to Estonian viewers. And we have the Russian State Duma, who will not receive an invitation from the Estonian Riigikogu within two years, not to mention responding to it. What respect or dialogue are we talking about when all we have is screaming and yelling? I sincerely regret that one of Estonia's official and large political parties does not understand that even if they go there with the greatest warmth of their heart or, as they say, live and howl with wolves, they legalize it not legally, but morally, as they say in modern language, discourses of which we are not part of the discourse in which the counterparty really wants us not to be in this form, even if it does not say so directly. When Estonian Television was spoken about, this platform was also sought for people who want to see good news in Russian. By the way, they are very critical of Estonia, but they are not less critical of Moscow or any country, because they are. They all scream and complain, but honestly and objectively, for something to heal. The excellent channel RTV, which has its head office in New York and is partly financed by the money of the Israeli Government, bears precisely the somewhat ironic and whining potential that a decent intellectual Russian TV channel really should bear. So there is no mistake in Russian culture, Russian language or Russian background. The problem is simply that there are people and a party in our country who, as I said, maybe do not know what they are doing and who has unwittingly put a little flag of the Estonian state up on the edge of the screen, although this thing certainly does not deserve this flag. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U81	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U82	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! I don't mind if the smoke detector commercial comes under food and eats on any television channel. On the contrary, as a volunteer savior, I'm in favour of it with two hands. And for me, there's not even a moral dilemma here, is it that if you take money from a smoke detector ad into a hostile channel, it's a means for a hostile channel. You know, the Per or Baltiski Channel lives very well without the money from our smoke detector ad, but maybe we wouldn't be able to get the smoke detector information to a few people. But as has already been said here many times today, smoke detectors were not the question we were talking about. All right, the smoke detectors, the Road Administration campaigns and all the other social promotions, it's extremely nice and comfortable to plant a theme so that we don't have to talk about what was actually asked about here. I asked about the country's strategic communication, and I didn't take that question out of the blue. Last week we had a meeting with strategic communication specialists in the Committee on National Defence. There, too, the question came to the table, and we never got an answer to that question, that question remained in the air. I wanted to put my question time into this dilemma, this strange situation that could arise for one specialist. The circle of strategic communication specialists is small in Estonia. We are thinking of a situation where most of the experts who are familiar with this specialist, colleagues in the private sector and freelance colleagues, and perhaps some of his teachers say that Per or Baltiski Canal is a problem: it is a propaganda channel that presents messages from the Russian Federation in both direct and covert form. And now that this specialist works at the Communications Office of the Government of the Republic, he's in a situation where his direct employer, or prime minister of the Republic, says that's not the case. So what's he gonna do? How does he look at his relatively small district, his Estonian colleagues in the face and say that no, it is not a problem, Per or Baltiski Canal is quite okay? Perhaps I would not like to be in the shoes of this strategic communication specialist, who is now in a position where he should either be guided by what he thinks, what his esteemed colleagues think, or who should adapt to the opinion of his direct employer, the Prime Minister of the Government of the Republic. It's an extremely difficult situation! In the country's strategic communication, which must work as a single punch, there should never be such dilemmas. Professionals must be free and objective in their analyses and assessments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U83	The members of the Riigikogu do not wish to negotiate any more, nor does the Prime Minister. I will close this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U84	The following inquiry, presented by Henn Põlluaas, Martin Helme, Mart Helme, Uno Kaskpeit, Jaak Madison, Raivo Põldaru and Arno Sild. On behalf of the heirs, Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U85	Prime Minister! Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the EKRE Group, we are presenting an inquiry into possible major contributions from Estonia to the budget of the European Union. Several countries have already expressed a negative opinion on this subject, bearing in mind, of course, their contributions. However, the Estonian Special Representative to the European Union, diplomat Matti Strawberry, announced that Estonia would be willing to increase its contributions to the budget of the European Union after Britain left the European Union. Some time later, Foreign Minister Mikser made the same statement, but we had already been able to make this inquiry, so his name is not written here. This readiness has been published at a time when we know that according to the Ministry of Finance, the European Union will reduce subsidies paid to Estonia by about 40%. It is the Riigikogu, not the government, that is responsible for making such financial commitments and making decisions. This is a violation of the principle of separation of powers. That is why we have five questions for the Prime Minister: 'Where did Matti Strawberry get the authority to speak on behalf of Estonia? Has the government discussed this issue and is this the government's position? Where does the government take the power to express such views, and has the agreement in principle been given to the institutions of the European Union on this subject? If it is not the government's position, will the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and its representatives pursue a policy that is independent of the government and the state? ' And the last question: 'On the basis of the state audit on the financing of state tasks in the event of a decrease in European Union subsidies, the ministries do not have a plan to fund the activities carried out so far at the expense of EU grants. How are funds to be found, especially if they agree to increase contributions to the EU budget at the same time? ' Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U86	The inquiry is answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U87	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Members of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! I would like to thank the members of the EKRE Group for their questioning. First, I will answer your questions in general and then directly. I'd like to start with factorology, giving you an overview of the progress of the process, and then I'll go to your specific questions. The government confirmed Estonia's starting points in relation to the future MFF, which is short of the English language term Multiannual Financial Framework on 8 June 2017. Estonia's starting points were discussed. You mentioned going against the principle of separation of powers. This certainly must not be the case and, of course, we are based on what the Riigikogu, including ELAK and the Committee on Monetary Affairs, say. So it was that these bases were discussed in the Riigikogu Finance Committee and on 3 July 2017 ELAK also supported the positions of the government. At the meeting of the Government Office on 8 February this year, the Minister of Finance plans to present an overview of the developments that have taken place in the preparation of the European Commission for the submission of proposals for the next European Union budgetary framework and how these proposals relate to Estonia's starting points. The Minister of Finance will also give an overview of the possible size of Estonian cohesion policy funds in the context of the distribution of regions in the European Union at the meeting of the Cabinet of Government. The meeting of the Cabinet will provide an opportunity to clarify our positions before the Council meeting on 23 February. There's no need for that, and the Minister of Finance doesn't propose it. Renewing and detailing Estonia's positions is planned after the Commission presents its proposal for MFF at the end of May. I'll answer your first and second questions at once, if you'll excuse me. The first question: 'Where did Matti Strawberry get the authority to speak on behalf of Estonia? The second question: " Has the government discussed this issue and is it a government position? 'The Government of the Republic discussed Estonia's starting points for the budgetary framework of the European Union following 2021 at the meeting of the Cabinet of Government and adopted them on 8 June 2017. The Riigikogu then discussed them. The Committee on European Union Affairs supported the Government's positions in line with the opinion of the Committee on Monetary Affairs on 3 July 2017. Matti Strawberry and other Estonian officials draw on the positions confirmed by the Government of the Republic and the Riigikogu. The third question: 'Where does the government take the power to express such positions, and has the relevant agreement in principle been given to the institutions of the European Union on this subject? " The government has based its positions on the next budgetary framework of the European Union on the priorities and the goal of achieving the best result for Estonia. The budgetary framework of the European Union will be agreed unanimously between the Member States of the European Union, with the agreement of the European Parliament being needed. Negotiations are at an early stage; final decisions are unlikely to be reached until the next year, or even the next year. There's nothing new in the budget talks. Our willingness to contribute more is directly related to the interests of Estonian and Estonian residents. If the budget does not fall after the UK leaves, then we and all the other countries will have to increase their contributions. In this way, there is a greater likelihood that following the priorities that are important to Estonia will receive funding. For example, Estonia considers it important to finance more research and innovation development; digital change is also needed. The current relatively modest means of increasing internal and external security and dealing with migration should certainly increase in the European Union. With the support of the European Union, Estonia wishes to complete the Rail Baltic project and synchronise the Baltic electricity systems towards Europe. We consider it important to further harmonise farmers' direct payments in the single market. The cohesion policy instruments, the so-called structural funds that are allocated to Estonia, are likely to decrease as we have become more prosperous. You shouldn't be ashamed of that at all. However, we consider it important that these instruments be reduced as prosperity increases as smoothly as possible. But in the end, Estonia is very likely to receive more money from the budget of the European Union in the next and the next budget period than we are paying in. Question 4: 'If it is not the government's position, will the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and its representatives pursue a policy that is independent of the government and the state? " I assure you, I will not. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and its representative have followed the approved positions of the Government of the Republic. Question 5: 'On the basis of the state audit on the financing of the state's tasks in the event of a decrease in European Union subsidies, ministries do not have a plan to fund the activities carried out so far at the expense of EU grants. How is it planned to find resources for this, especially if it is agreed to increase contributions to the budget of the European Union at the same time? ' First of all, even when the European Union's resources increased, the principle was that subsidies and investments must contribute to the growth of Estonia's competitiveness and, above all, give a one-off boost to development. The same principles are followed when planning a new budget period for the European Union. Secondly, the sustainability of the financial coverage of public tasks is assessed in the budgetary strategy and budgetary process of each country. In general, we are taking into account the reduction in the European Union's resources. It is not only at the end of the budgetary period of the European Union that an analysis of the achievement of the objectives of the sectors and the need for resources is being carried out, but all the time and on a large scale. According to the initial estimates of the Ministry of Finance, around 1,5% of the state budget volume per year relates to social and educational services covered by European Union funds that could be considered as fixed costs and are expected to continue to be financed. The aim is to address the progress towards the sectoral objectives independently of the sources of funding. Thank you very much. I'm ready to answer your additional questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U88	The first question is asked by Martin Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U89	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Prime Minister! We know that a number of countries, such as our northern neighbour Finland, but also the Netherlands and a number of other countries, have said very clearly and quite categorically that the increase in contributions to the European Union budget in relation to Brexit is out of the question, and that the reduction in the budget will have to lead to cuts in the entire budget of the European Union. There is talk of a magnitude of 16%, which would mean a considerable reduction in our contribution of around 8% compared to today. Estonia has taken the opposite position: we better pay more ourselves than we get less support. We consider that our GDP per capita is rising, and if it rises to at least 75% of the EU average, the money we receive will decrease by 40%. In addition, the Estonian Government wants to pay the European Union a further 10 to 15% more than so far. The money we receive from the European Union will be reduced by about half. Right now, we get EUR 3.5 per euro that we pay...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U90	Question!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U91	How much is it going to be in the mid-2020s?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U92	Thank you. The direct answer is we don't know that right now. There are no rules on how much is paid in the new budget period. I personally think that we need and want more Europe. We want a stronger Europe, we want a stronger Europe. This does not mean that we only measure everything by a measure of the euro. This means much more important things: what cultural space we belong to, what security space we belong to, what economic space we belong to. It is true that new policies have emerged in the European Union. Take, for example, the security policy, where more should be contributed. If we want to deal with more areas, we also need to allocate more money to this. You rightly pointed out in your question that most Member States are net recipients and that those who are net contributors are outnumbered. You also gave an example of some countries. In particular, I can now point out that, as of 2 February, there is an overview of Germany's views on the next multiannual financial framework. These views are as follows: Specific amounts will come after the German Government has been set up. That's point one. Point two: the new MFF is intended to be more flexible than the current one, allowing for a better response to unexpected political crises. The new MFF must be based on the values of the European Union and not only on existing priorities but also on new challenges such as climate change. Thirdly, in order to make room for the priorities set, the share of the Structural Funds and the CAP in the budget should decrease. For example, more prosperous regions of the European Union could also receive support to deal with the migration crisis. In my opinion, Germany has made it very clear, at least during the coalition negotiations so far, that it is willing to contribute more. But the truth is that policies have come up in the European Union and they need funding. I will once again give the example of security policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U93	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U94	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! You are wrong to claim that we want more Europe. We do not want more Europe. We want Estonia to have a sovereign Estonia in a community of sovereign European states. We do not see the European Union as a federation to which you refer when you say that we want more Europe. We do not believe that the European Union must be a security guarantee, NATO. We're full members of NATO, we'll bet on it. The improvement of the Afghanistan mission was again discussed today, so security issues are wider. My question, however, is specifically about where representatives of non-executive powers, such as the President of our Republic, take the right to state that Estonia is prepared to pay 20% more to the European Union budget. He or she does not have the authority of the Riigikogu; he or she does not have the authority of the Government and does not have the power of law to do so. Do you not think that you should draw his attention so that he does not express such views?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U95	Thank you. I want to get one thing right here, this is about the first part of your question. I am based on what the mandate has been given by the people of Estonia, and this is certainly not for the creation of the United States of Europe. It is certainly about an alliance of independent democracies. That's what I'm talking about. Now the sentence that I want more Europe. What do I mean by that? I mean better growth in the European Union, more employment in the European Union, less unemployment in the European Union. I mean even greater expansion of Erasmus+ in the field of education, for example. I mean an even stronger policy for the Eastern Partnership of the European Union. I certainly want to see more of these things in the European Union. I certainly want to see more that we, as the European Union, can be a stronger alternative and a more powerful competitive area if we compare ourselves with China, Russia, the US or any other region. I certainly want us to see more research and innovation in the future, more top universities in Europe. It means more Europe. On one point, however, I disagree with you: you say that security is not important in the European Union. It's important! We will take the same PESCO that was created by the 25 Member States of the European Union at the end of December last year. This does not mean duplication of NATO. On the contrary! Cooperation between the European Union and NATO is very effective, and I think it is now the densest ever. And these are not my words; this is borne out by both NATO representatives and the leaders of European Union countries. That, too, means more Europe. This does not mean, of course, that Estonia should lose its independence. However, if you ask about the President, I think that the President simply had in mind the same values that I have highlighted here. A stronger European Union relies on a stronger economy, a stronger social and educational system, research and innovation. I think it was his idea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U96	Uno Kaskpeit.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U97	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister! I heard from your report that we're becoming more and more wealthy and why not pay more. I don't know where we're getting any more wealthy. It just ran through that Latvia has received Estonia's excise policy at our expense, I don't know how much, I think, around 40 million euros. It has also been through the press that small bus companies buy all their fuel from Latvia. I'd like to know where that wealth comes from.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U98	I believe you do not mean that I should answer where you, as a member of the Riigikogu, will gain wealth. But the prosperity of Estonia is more than just where does it come from? We see that our average wage is rising, we see that our minimum wage has risen. We can see that Estonia's economy went well beyond expectations in 2017 and that our economic growth is over 4%. We see that both Eesti Pank and the Ministry of Finance forecast growth in Estonia by about 4% by 2018. These are the places. We see that we are increasing investment, we see that unemployment is low. All these indicators provide assurance that our GDP will grow, that our economic prosperity, our prosperity, will increase.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U99	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U100	Thank you. You have repeatedly confirmed here that Estonia is a net beneficiary in the European Union. I say the opposite: we have given the European Union the most expensive we have, we have given up our people, whom we have raised and educated. There are more than 100,000 people, which means 10% of the workforce. All the values they have created have been created elsewhere, and we have also lost taxes. And the most intrusive thing is that our paid-up money is constantly being mutilated by the European Parliament when it moves between Brussels and Strasbourg. It'll take 200 million, which is as much money as our deposit. Why do you not think that the European Union should rather save and stop luring? Rather, you are of the opinion that we should pay even more there.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U101	Thank you. First of all, when we think about why the European Union was created, the reason was actually very clear. The goal was to ensure peace. And that peace is very expensive. It's very expensive, but it's also priceless. The European Union has been able to guarantee peace, let us be honest. When we look at the Rome Declaration, which was signed at the beginning of last year, we must be happy that these 27 countries want to move forward together in the same way. You claim that we have given so many people to Europe, but Statistics Estonia says that Estonia's migration balance was positive in 2017. I hope that they will also come out in the near future with figures showing where people have come to Estonia. The number of Estonian residents increased by 3070 last year, not decreased. The four fundamental principles of the European Union are the free movement of people, the free movement of capital, the free movement of services, and I very much hope that we all understand this in the same way, including the free movement of data. But a very respected member of the Riigikogu, Mr Põlluaas, I think it is very good to know before the elections what different parties think of one thing or another. Who thinks we have given a lot to the European Union, who think we have had a lot. In this sense, you are right that in 2016 Estonia paid 210 million euros to the budget of the European Union. However, Estonia received 673 million more than three times more from the European Union budget if we do the calculation only in view of this scale. But I don't think that's the main scale. The main is the European scale of values. But before the elections, of course, it is right for voters and society at all to have their say. After all, people are divided when they think about being in the European Union. I understand you have some doubts as to whether it's worth belonging to. In any case, as head of the government, I very much believe that Estonia belongs to Europe and that Estonia, together with others, can make the European Union stronger. As I said, we also need to become stronger as an economic area compared to other economies. I also confirm, as a member of a political party, that the Centre Party is in favour of membership of the European Union. Speaking about the opinion of the Estonian population, according to the latest survey, 79% of the Estonian population supports membership of the European Union. The latter figure was 77%, with an increase of 2%.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U102	Arno Bridge.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U103	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! We know that in recent times, the amazing fact that building the eastern border is going to be three times more expensive than was originally planned. It is also the European Union's border. Do you think that this additional money, over 100 million, must be found from our budget, or does the European Union have to help in financing?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U104	Thank you. First of all, I'm following the general principle. I remember that while I was a respected member of the Riigikogu, I said in opposition the principle that I do not believe that this must be done in such a way that something drastic must happen in the Estonian state before we begin to make any changes. But true, you're right. Unfortunately, construction can be 2.5 to 3 times more expensive and, let us be honest, maybe this appreciation is even greater than all construction contracts have not yet been awarded. At the same time, I am still pursuing the objective of building this border in the most modern and safest European Union. Is it possible for us to receive support for this, so that all money does not have to come out of the pocket of the Estonian taxpayer? Yeah, it's possible, and we already have. We are still applying for these amounts from European Union funds. In any case, I think we need to build this border. However, the entire schedule needs to be reviewed. We intend to do so in February at the cabinet meeting and, of course, we will also cooperate with the Riigikogu here. Under no circumstances do I think that now we should raise our hands and say that we will not continue to build this border. In any case, we have to go on with this.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U105	Raivo Põldaru.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U106	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Good Prime Minister! You repeatedly stressed that there could be more Europe in Estonia. Are you also referring to the European Social Charter, for example, to the fact that the people of Estonia have a normal pension? Wages are not directly regulated by the Estonian state, but is well known that the new government has planned to move in this direction too, so that we also fulfil these charter points and reach the situation that is already in other parts of Europe? How can we resolve these issues?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U107	Thank you. I sincerely thank you, I think that is the right question. I think that the European Union summit held in Gothenburg, Sweden, was very successful. A European social pillar was agreed with the participation of employers, employees and 28 Member States. This is, in my view, a very fundamental step forward. As a representative of the Estonian Presidency, I had the honour of signing it on behalf of 28 countries, i.e. 510 million inhabitants. True, you are bringing out part of this social pillar, which is pensions. I was watching the news from the National Broadcasting 'Actual Camera' last night. It said that a very large number of pensioners, if I remember correctly, will receive an average old-age pension which, unfortunately, is below the limit of relative poverty. Under the limit of relative poverty! I think it's a serious problem. You are asking whether Estonia could move forward in this area. You rightly said that the Charter provides for fair pensions. Yes, I think Estonia should move in that direction. I fully agree that, in the context of the ongoing indexation of pensions, we need to think about solutions for how to bring the vast majority of retirement pensions out of relative poverty. In fact, this is also a question for the XIV Riigikogu. Now is the time to put these proposals on the table. I have read our party's proposal to think about an extraordinary pension rise. I think we should really think. This is a problem that pensioners live below the limit of relative poverty. But I see most parties say that it is not necessary or that it is not possible. I was honored to speak to the former Minister of Social Affairs Jaak Aab this morning. During his time he was in office in 2005 to 2007 there was an over-the-counter pension increase. Then it was possible. This increase was about 48 euros, I think 750 kroons in the currency of the day. So, in any case, I support your point. And if we can work with the EERE here, I think it means a stronger Europe. In that sense, you're right.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U108	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U109	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Prime Minister! I would point out that the Conservative People's Party has never opposed a pension increase. However, we are opposed to allowing something that does not say where the necessary money comes from. If, for example, this money comes because Tallinn City Government or the Centre Party would not spend half a million dollars on PBK and give it to pensioners, then we are in favour of it with two hands. Come out with reasonable sources of cover, and we'll agree now! Basically, we support pensioners. However, I come back to paying it back in connection with the new budgetary framework. Before the summer Council, the Government and also the Committee on European Union Affairs approved a memorandum on the new budgetary framework. It states in more detail under the heading 'Budget volume' that the European Union needs a fundamental agreement that it is not in the interest of the European Union to cut the Community budget after the United Kingdom has left, but to keep expenditure at least as high as possible in the current period. I note from this that we are not in favour of cutting costs and making them more efficient. However, it is not necessary to spend millions every month, for example, on holding a sitting of the European Parliament in Strasbourg. There's a way to save you somewhere else. Do you object to austerity?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U110	Thank you. I think that making every process more effective is certainly a worthwhile undertaking. If you ask whether I consider it politically possible to agree that the European Parliament is no longer working in Brussels and Strasbourg, but is working in one place, I do not think this is a place for discussion. I really don't think even you, Mr. Madison, can carry it out. Besides, this isn't the right place to start. The right place to start is actually what was referred to before you spoke. We need a stronger Europe, we need a stronger Europe. I am pleased if you too consider it appropriate to support the elderly and to help them out of relative poverty. This is a problem was very clearly a problem! You have read the point of the memorandum very correctly: there is indeed the word 'at least' in it. At the same time, we know that so far there have been a great many new policy orientations. Take, for example, the same security issue. I know it's important to you too. On behalf of the PESCO common platform, we have agreed with 25 Member States of the European Union. That doesn't mean it's just on paper. It also needs real action, which, of course, requires greater funding in practice. Should we contribute more to this? Yeah, I think we should bet more. You and I have been discussing a lot. Remember when you said bad things to me, but that's not why I'm offended. We have discussed very much with you, for example, on solidarity in the external dimension. In my opinion, we are both of the same opinion that there is a need to contribute to this in any case. Let's take the same African trust fund. It needs extra money. This means that perhaps after Brexit, after Britain's departure, more contributions will have to be made. However, I cannot say that I am not in favour of internal solidarity; I am, of course, in favour of it. Let's go! Various infrastructure connections will be very important in the next period. Indeed, Estonia supports non-dependence on the Russian Federation system. There's also a security aspect here. We believe that the right solution is to synchronise the systems of the three Baltic countries with those of Central Europe via Poland. We want it. Of course, we are asking for support and co-financing from the European Union. Or let's keep going, Rail Baltic, for example. This project will not end in 2020. We would like Rail Baltic to be completed in 2025 and pass through Pärnu, which is the fastest route. I've been told that Ülemiste is leaving for Pärnu in 43 minutes. It also improves other connections within Estonia, which connects us to other Baltic countries and, of course, to Central Europe.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U111	Thank you, Prime Minister. No more questions right now. You will be able to speak before the negotiations are concluded. I'm opening negotiations. Please, Martin Helme! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U112	Dear Deputy Speaker! Good Prime Minister! As is typical of European Union affairs: the subject is boring, complex, involves huge sums and national sovereignty and other big but abstract things, so nobody really cares. But we care. I will start again by referring to a topic that we have rolled back and forth several times here in the whole round of questions and answers. On a subject that still means more Europe or what things are European values, there has been a lot of shit. Our party certainly does not agree with the idea that power, decision-making and money should move more from Estonia to Brussels or to the European Union at large. We do not think that Estonia should further associate itself with global institutions and narrow its internal political manoeuvring space, thereby essentially reducing the sovereignty of the people to decide matters as they see fit. This is a completely practical issue and, in the coming years, an increasingly heated political debate or even a quarrel in Europe. Among other things, in the documents of our government that have been through the Cabinet and ELAK, it is clear that if the contributions from other countries are not increased after Britain's departure, the European Union's budget will have to decrease by around 16% and, as a result, the European Union's action will also decrease. This means that the European Union must cope with less and be more effective. A number of countries say that this is exactly what needs to be done. The European Union is wasteful, overexploited, does little with much, is inefficient and all forms of paying up money are out of the question. Our government has taken exactly the opposite view. We just need to signal that you pay more, and our question is only how much more. We did not, unfortunately, get an answer on this today, and I am afraid I will not be able to do so soon. There are objective reasons. The budgetary dispute is indeed long and with several parties. But it is clear that our 'political elite', the cream layer, has read out of the eyes of the Brussels lords the desire that Estonia throw its taxpayers' money more towards Brussels. And now some simple calculations. After all, if our standard of living rises to 75% of the European Union's average, the amount we receive from the European Union will be reduced by 40%. This means more or less the same cut from both agriculture and other UCITS with which we are accustomed, including, for example, education or EAS. Now, if we put these two numbers together, how much should we increase the payment? These figures have been different, they're between 10 and 20%. And then how much will the amount we receive be reduced? It is quite clear that if we take the difference between giving and receiving, the resulting amount will decrease by 50 to 60%. Today, it is that every euro we pay for the European Union will receive EUR 4 according to propaganda, but the actual calculation will show EUR 3.5. If it falls by 50 to 60%, we will receive EUR 1.5 to 1.7 in return. Yeah, well, that's a plus, but let's take it into account that it's the money that we can't use to a very large extent. It's locked. Secondly, most of this money goes to a project that the Prime Minister mentioned and to which we are categorically opposed: it is Rail Baltic, which is built for European Union money. This money is wasted, crazy wasted, it's no use to us. Keeping this facility up will get us out of business. But let us not forget, too, that when we are talking here about getting 1.6 euros against 1 euro, it is more reasonable at some point to cancel this mediator and place it ourselves in Estonia as we think it is better. It is more effective, easier and more accountable. It's all our money! This is all our money, and our party is not in favour of giving more money to build and strengthen the socialist multicultural euro empire, or more Europe. Because if we take the money away, if we take away the fact that we're paid for part of it with our own money, what's left? What, then, is the European Union for us? Then it is the payment of the ESM, or Greek debts, the Syrian refugees, so-called refugees, homosexual marriages and gender-neutral kindergartens. No, thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U113	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U114	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good Prime Minister! For starters, your remargic answer to my question. I hear I've told you something unpleasant, but you're not offended. I'm glad you weren't offended, because offended in this hall would be a very big sign of weakness. Don't pay attention, sometimes we say a little more acutely if we don't get answers at all, or if we get very misleading answers. So I didn't really use the first, or certainly the last, a little bit sharper. But I will now go to the European Union. This is a very broad and long-standing discussion. Here we could talk for hours about what exactly this European Union is, where it is headed, which is its budget. But I'm going to bring up a few keywords that I had time to write down during your answers. First thing: a strong Europe. It is in our interest that Europe is strong. That's for sure, who wouldn't want us to be strong. But what exactly is this strong Europe? What is it that expresses a strong Europe? You mentioned a strong economy and a high level of employment. Is employment okay when we talk about the free movement of labour by praising the fact that about 100,000 people of working age have left Estonia? Is employment okay if, for example, 670000 people have left Hungary after joining the European Union and another 300,000 are due to leave in the coming years? Does it show the strength of Europe when half a million Poles of working age live in France? Is this a sign of good employment and of Europe's strength when we too are on the brink of a demographic crisis, let alone an old Europe? Is it an excellent result of European Union policy that we have come to a situation where every day we are discussing in the corridors of the European Union how to solve labour problems and get a new workforce in the form of migrants? Is that the kind of employment we've wanted? That's another thing. A strong Europe constantly means moving in some direction. Last year Jean-Claude Juncker came up with five scenarios in the White Paper. These scenarios for the future are very different. If I now interpret the message of a strong Europe, I will read two clear options: whether we continue to move in the same direction, it was perhaps the first of the five options, or the second, which was the last on the list: even faster federalisation. Will Europe be strong if, under the leadership of the European Commission, we harmonise national legislation in all policy areas? Will Europe be strong when the European Commission supervises all national legislation so that it is compatible with the Treaty on European Union? It was only today that we had an agenda item in the Committee on European Union Affairs to deal with infringement procedures. Estonia is currently dealing with 33 infringement proceedings, 26 of which are due to delays in transposing directives. If we don't take them in time, we'll be fined. The fine for Estonia per day is EUR 4 000-6000 and starts running from the day when the deadline falls and lasts until the day when the law is passed in this hall. Every day, we lose EUR 4 000-6000. And because we have not adopted any directive. Is this a united and strong Europe that the Prime Minister is talking about? Forward, budget. The European Union currently has a budget of EUR 135 billion. Estonia has formally taken the view that it is in no way in our interest to reduce the budget and to continue spending the same amount. To some extent, it also speaks of the thinking of the Estonian left-wing government that this money is coming from somewhere. The way in which we have to get more from somewhere and give less ourselves is, of course, genuinely popular and, at the same time, juniper-like: let the German pay, let him lead us and tell us in directives what we have to do, as long as we can get some money in our cups to re-distribute it and talk about income tax exemption. About this ideology: let the other one pay somewhere. I basically disagree with that. I do not agree that the European Union directive says that I cannot tax trucks from other European Union countries in Estonia, but I must impose a uniform tax on all vehicles, including Estonian vehicles. I do not agree that Estonia cannot create advantages for its own entrepreneurs in its economic space, because otherwise, the Commissioner of the European Commission will come and say that we are breaking the conditions of competition. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U115	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U116	Ultimately, we have created a situation where businesses in all other countries can enter our market without our own companies having an advantage. And the consequence is that we can say, you see, with German money, we fixed this section of the road or renovated a school. I don't like this ideology. Maybe the government really likes it, of course I do! But speaking of the budget, I would like to mention, for example, that in 2016, just over EUR 30 billion of this large budget was allocated to Africa alone through the EUR 2.8 billion development funds. It went directly to African countries. This is the number taken from the last report of the European Court of Auditors. This is one small example. Before I referred to the European Parliament's expenditure. Thousands of papers are printed every day just because they don't know or want to use a computer. This will cost hundreds of thousands of euros each month, plus the transfer of meetings to Strasbourg every week. Yes, it is likely to be politically impossible to agree on another, but this is one markent example of the costs that should be drawn up. However, we go out with the view that under no circumstances do we agree with the reduction in the budget. Of course we should be! It's up to us to say, hey, there's millions being wasted here! Indeed, Britain is leaving, and I am somewhat pleased about that. The people said that we have had enough of this directive policy. But it's up to us to say that, well, we're gonna live somehow, it's okay, but we're gonna cut some expenses somewhere. For example, pumping the same billions of euros of money into Africa is simply foolish, because these countries are one of the most corrupt countries in the world. Finally, the support of the people to the European Union. Yes, the last two studies show that 79% or 77% of the Estonian people support the European Union. Statistically, that's right. However, the question is how the questions have been asked. If people are asked whether they support a common refugee policy in the European Union, I can bet 79% will say no, they will not. When you ask the same people whether they support the common monetary policy, according to which we have a finance minister in the European Union, which is currently being carried by the French President and the Germans, most say: no, I do not support it. Do you support federalization? No, I'm not! But if they ask if you support the European Union, they will answer: yes, I do not support it, I have got the village road fixed and we have received something, and security is very important. This, by the way, is also a major delusion that the security guarantee is the European Union. Security cannot rely on the leadership of Germany and France, which have their own personal interests in relation to our greatest security threat, which is Russia. As long as there is no real value-based foreign policy, as long as Nord Stream 2 is not denied, it is a two-faced policy. This is a two-faced story when people speak in Estonia and elsewhere in the Baltic States and Poland that we support security and a common foreign policy, but at the same time, France and, according to recent data, even the leaders of the German Länder support the abolition of Russian sanctions, because they have mostly lost the farmers in East Germany. This does not seem to be in line with your understanding of the common security policy. But, unfortunately, my time is over, so thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U117	The addressee of the inquiry, Mr Prime Minister, takes the opportunity to speak again.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U118	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Members of the Riigikogu! I was moved into this chair by that last call. First of all, from a stronger Europe. Yes, for me it really means a more powerful economy, a stronger economy. It certainly also means a more social Europe, a stronger social policy, whether it is a working or rest period, whether it is employment or pensions. A stronger Europe will certainly mean for me what I have repeatedly emphasised here: it is a better course of education, a better course of research and innovation. A stronger Europe will certainly also mean a more digital Europe, more e-services. In my view, the direction that the European Union has taken to be a serious leader in tackling climate change is very much appreciated. This is very right and the European Union must continue to do so. And work on the Eastern Partnership is also a very important direction that the European Union is currently taking. I had a very heavy scratch on my soul when you said about the African countries that they were corrupt countries. I modestly advise you, as a member of the Riigikogu, to think a little before you use such expressions for about 55 countries. I think that what the European Union is contributing to Africa, including by organising summits between Africa and the European Union, is necessary. Africa is our neighboring continent. As far as migration and refugees are concerned, this is in any case an issue that needs to be addressed. We need a stronger Africa, we need a more successful, more democratic Africa. To claim here, when discussing foreign policy, that one continent is not important in your eyes, and to try to get any points for it in domestic politics, I think it is completely irresponsible. The word of a member of the Riigikogu is very important. In my opinion, the overall direction in the world is different. We want to see a stronger Africa, a more transparent, more democratic one. The direction is to help these countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U119	I will close the questioning debate, although it just got very exciting at the last minute.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U120	Today's third item is the inquiry into the hidden relations between law firms and the prosecutor's office submitted on 13 December by the members of the Riigikogu, Henn Põlleaasa, Martin Helme, Mart Helme, Uno Kaskpeiti, Jaak Madison, Raivo Põldaru and Arno Silla. On behalf of the interviewers, please speak to Martin Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U121	Dear Deputy Speaker! I could not understand in the previous speech whether we were to be told that there was no corruption in Africa. But we come to corruption in Estonia. We did indeed make an inquiry on behalf of the Conservative People's Party ambassadors, and this is the background. On 29 November, the Central Criminal Police apprehended the former leaders of HKScan, Teet Soorm and Mati Tuvi. There's a civil dispute between HKScan and the inmates. The civil dispute is a form of dispute where the criminal police almost never intervene, and the police and the prosecutor's office prefer that the parties to the financial dispute have a civil dispute before the courts. However, in this case, the prosecutor's office initiated criminal proceedings and the Central Criminal Police apprehended unpleasant persons for the HKScan. HKScan is represented in this dispute by Soraainen's law firm. This office is one of the law firms operating in Estonia, which is also in close contact with the Defence Police Department and the Prosecutor's Office. This office employs the former State Attorney General and Chancellor Norman Aas of the Ministry of Justice, who wrote at least one complaint to his former subordinates and colleagues at the prosecutor's office, on the basis of which criminal proceedings were initiated against Sorainen's major client, the HKScan opponents Soorm and Pigeon. If there is any doubt that there is a law firm in Estonia that can use the central criminal police, the defence police or the prosecutor's office to shut down and label its opponent, then we are in a state of constitutional crisis. The authorities and special services of the state must not be able to work on behalf of any private company or on behalf of any private company, certainly not in the interests of law firms. There is an extremely big problem and there is a complete confrontation with the values of a European country, when one of our country's most expensive law firms can secretly order the execution or the shut-down of its opponents. In this regard, we ask the Minister three questions: 'How do you, as a minister, ensure that the state's powers and the public prosecutor's office do not agree with the handling of a complaint from a law firm, i.e. the 'order' in the clear interest of the client of this office? In what way do you intend to determine whether, as head of proceedings, the Central Criminal Police and, in particular, the District Prosecutor's Office in the North, abused their power by initiating a criminal case on the basis of a complaint from a law firm in a biased position? Please explain what problems or benefits you see as your minister when the law firm is in close contact with the Defence Police Department and the (State) Prosecutor's Office. ' Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U122	Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, answers the heirs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U123	Honorable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable representatives of the people! Good questioners! The Code of Criminal Procedure recognises, in addition to the national principle, the principle of the mandatory nature of criminal proceedings, or the principle of legality. Pursuant to § 6 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, if the circumstances of a criminal offence occur, the investigating authority and the prosecutor's office are obliged to bring criminal proceedings in the absence of circumstances which preclude criminal proceedings provided for in that Code or where there is no basis under that Code for the termination of criminal proceedings. This means that, if the investigating authority or the prosecutor's office has become aware of the facts of the crime in any way, the rule of the opening of criminal proceedings, and the refusal to do so, is an exception which must be justified by a specific legal basis. The fact that the investigating authority or the prosecutor's office has become aware of the facts of the crime by being notified by the lawyer of the victim is not an exclusion from criminal proceedings. Nor is it that there is a civil dispute between the victim and the persons mentioned in the report of a criminal offence at the law firm representing the victim, which is the former state attorney-general of yours. In fact, the law does not provide for any exceptions or limitations as to who may report a crime. Even if no one makes a report or a complaint, the investigating authority and the prosecutor's office are obliged to start criminal proceedings if the circumstances of the crime occur. Secondly, I am concerned with the fact that the respondents have formulated their question as if a civil dispute had been intervened in criminal proceedings as if the actual subject matter of the dispute were a civil dispute and criminal proceedings had been initiated to resolve a civil matter. In this case, the suspected acts of crime are still covered by the Penal Code, not by any rules of the Civil Code. This is to a large extent an appropriation attributed to individuals, a misuse of trust, as well as money laundering on a large scale by the group. Now, I still want to stress the supervision scheme. You asked how the Minister should ensure that the principle of the rule of law is not abused either by the prosecutor's office or by the police authorities. So you are interested in the Minister's supervision of the prosecutor's office as an authority for the administration of justice. However, this is a matter of professional supervision in relation to the organisational functioning of the prosecutor's office, including issues relating to financial arrangements. As far as police and prosecutors' offices are concerned in a specific case, in the rule of law, there is a chain of supervision of the activities of the police and prosecutors' offices within the justice system. This means that the Public Prosecutor's Office is supervised by the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Public Prosecutor's Office is supervised by the Public Prosecutor's Office. The activities of the Public Prosecutor's Office can, of course, also be brought before the courts, while a complaint concerning specific procedural procedures can be lodged at any stage of the proceedings. I would like to emphasise that our law provides for separate penalties if the police authority, the individual persons or the prosecutor's office have taken steps that are not legally justified. Among other things, there is a criminal offence in the event of an unlawful cessation of criminal proceedings knowingly, as well as when the charges are dropped or, on the contrary, unlawfully prosecuted. There will also be criminal penalties for this. I'm talking about the level of the prosecutor's office right now. When it comes to police work, suspicion or criminal prosecution, it may be a case where it has been possible to create evidence artificially: if there have been written down any work or evidence that has not actually existed. Or perhaps your position has been abused. If any person has a doubt, you used the word'suspect', that in pre-trial proceedings there have been specific offences that violate someone's rights, then this must undoubtedly be investigated in the Estonian rule of law. All persons shall have the right to pass on such information to the police authority or the prosecutor's office which is obliged to deal with it. If the information or circumstances provided so warrant, criminal proceedings shall be instituted. However, I would like to emphasise that one of the principles of criminal proceedings is the presumption of innocence. According to this, no one is considered guilty of an offence until he has been the subject of a conviction judgment, a judgment of an independent judicial court, which closes criminal proceedings in a specific way. In view of the direction of the question of the heirs, I would also like to emphasise that the opening of criminal proceedings is not comparable to execution. The sentence of execution ends criminal proceedings and does not involve the commencement of such proceedings. Criminal proceedings can, of course, end in a way other than a conviction, and of course it is not right to treat a person as a criminal or simply as a perpetrator. It is clear, without further ado, that the opening of criminal proceedings will have unpleasant consequences for individuals. It's a reality. Some of these inconveniences are avoidable, some unfortunately not if criminal proceedings are to be brought to an end. You asked if the order was in the interest of the client of the Bureau when this criminal procedure was initiated. In answer, I would like to stress that the prosecutor's office is independent in the performance of its duties under the law; it is acting in accordance with the law. With regard to the fact that someone has taken a representative, you are referring to a specific law firm, the Bar Act provides the basis for the activity of a lawyer. It is subject to state supervision, as well as to corporate supervision organised by the Bar Association itself. The lawyer provides legal services to his client. Legal services include legal advice, representation and protection of a person in court, pre-trial proceedings and elsewhere, as well as the preparation of a document for a person and other legal acts for his or her benefit. If the client wishes his lawyer to submit a report of the offence as a result of the circumstances which have arisen, the lawyer cannot be prevented from doing so. Where a lawyer representing a client has concluded that a criminal offence has been committed against his client, he or she shall also have the right to prepare and submit a criminal report in the interest of his or her client. It is neither possible nor reasonable to prohibit or restrict these legal services in the rule of law. I was asked how I intend to determine whether the Central Criminal Police and the North District Prosecutor's Office have abused their power. I would like to stress that I do not know of such circumstances. You're referring to someone's close relationship with things behind the corner, I don't have any information about it. It is right that professionals with special education have gone from public work to the private sector, but so have people from the private sector gone to public work. For example, Indrek Teder has worked as a lawyer, then was the Chancellor of Justice and went back to law enforcement. Former Head of the Supreme Court Märt Rask acts as a lawyer. One principle of such a movement is certainly that the procedural or procedural position which a person has when dealing with a particular case must not be influenced by his previous professional activity. In any event, its earlier office cannot be an exclusion from any other case unless there is a basis for a reduction specifically provided for in the law. For example, in the case of a judge, it may be a close relative of his or hers or the like. You ask me what problems or benefits I see as a minister when a law firm has a very close relationship with the Defence Police Department and the prosecutor's office. Yes, I fully agree that if there were such an incriminating situation as you would have the impression that you could order the initiation of a criminal case, this would undoubtedly be totally unacceptable in the rule of law. As I pointed out, it would not be just a deplorable crime, but a crime if such orders were to take place. I have no reason to refer to this now, but I would like to stress that the penal code also protects the judicial officials and the officials involved in justice by providing sanctions for both insulting and defamation. As regards your claim that in a particular case, there is a relationship of trust between somebody, whatever you can say when you concretise it, I do not have such information. If I had information at my disposal that a crime has been committed, I am thinking specifically of the question of whether, in fact, criminal proceedings can be ordered and initiated, it would, of course, be my responsibility to provide the relevant information as a good-faith citizen to the judicial authorities who can investigate the case. Certainly, this nepotism or circular guarantee is one of the most dangerous forms of corruption in terms of the rule of law. And corruption must be prevented. It must be blocked in the Republic of Estonia, Africa and everywhere else, where human relations, where society is a community, are rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U124	The round of questions begins with Igor Gräzin.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U125	Commencing nepotism. That came as a surprise! Your own party partner is the chairman of the Supervisory Committee and oversees his own institution, including the things he has initiated himself. And it's not happening in Africa, it's happening in Estonia. I was impressed by what you just said that the DA's office is completely independent and acts as it pleases. The prosecutor himself says even worse: he says he's completely independent. As in this pair of cases, the prosecutor's office and the barrister's office, isn't one side so beyond doubt, smarter, more honest, etc., the prosecutor's office remains. The question now is: who and how will monitor the activities and legality of the prosecutor's office? It's not a court because he's dealing with the subject matter. It's not you either, because you're only involved in organizational culture and in-house human relationships. Who will supervise this?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U126	The Public Prosecutor's Office cannot imagine going out like a German submarine with torpedoes during World War II and looking at what kind of prey it finds in the Atlantic Ocean. When we talk specifically about legal proceedings, it is carried out by specific officials with specific circumstances in force. And in these operations, each person signs, gives his or her signature to the police officer according to his or her authority, and also gives his or her signature to the prosecutor. As I pointed out, there is, of course, a monitoring of the actions of these persons or of the failure to perform them. It's happening inside the chain of justice. This supervision exists, this supervision can lead to criminal penalties at the most drastic time when there is a knowing abuse of the power given to the workers of these authorities in the rule of law. This responsibility or supervision cannot be impersonal. It is not the case that all prosecutors meet at the prosecutor's office and discuss a specific case, and then the prosecutor's office, as an authority, develops a position. In a specific procedure, a particular official still takes a specific decision. This has legal consequences, and if there is a conscious violation of the law, it must be held responsible. And this, as I emphasised, is being supervised at the level of the prosecutor's office by the person above their official hierarchy, and eventually judicial supervision may also be reached. We have had cases where criminal cases have also been brought against prosecutors. I recall a case dealt with in the media, where the procedure was initiated not on the official activities of one prosecutor, but on the activities of him as a person. In fact, what I want to say is that there is no immunity under any institutional circumstance in the rule of law. Regrettably, the crimes committed by judges have also occurred and, if these circumstances have occurred, these cases have been dealt with in accordance with the legal order.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U127	Martin Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U128	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. Well, right now, I heard an endless amount of pointless political foam. You have informed us of the definition of justice and of the procedure, but you have not answered the questions. These first two questions, in particular, would still like to be answered. I hope you understand and admit that this is all very unusual when it comes to civil disputes, whether money was stolen from the company or not, or whether someone got some sort of special treatment, or whether somebody got their contracts. In this case, K-Squad doesn't usually fly on, doesn't force people against the ground, and doesn't take them away by dragging them away. It happened this time. There was a disproportionate use of force and an entirely unusual situation arose in which the criminal police intervened in the civil dispute. And if you're just telling us that you don't have any information, I'd still like an answer to the question that you've been doing so that things like this don't happen. What have you done or are you going to do to find out if there was an agreement between you and me, whether it was an order, a special relationship, or not? It's not the answer that you don't believe it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U129	It's not a question of faith. Justice decisions are based on facts, information at our disposal, and we draw conclusions on an evidence-based basis. This very fundamental question! It is not possible to operate in these categories on an intuitive platform. You're saying there was illegal use of force. If you have factual information at your disposal and do not rely on intuition and have come to the truth on the basis of the facts, this is an incriminating act in § 313 of the Penal Code, 'illegal application of an act guaranteeing legal proceedings'. We are talking about taking or applying for arrest, detention, detention or forced arrest without a legal basis. If you have at your disposal information that this is a crime, I hope you will also inform the investigating authorities that there has been a pre-trial offence in the area of justice. I have no information at my disposal that the police or the prosecutor's office has exceeded the legal authority. Your reference to the fact that the prosecutor's office and police authorities do not intervene in civil matters in general is completely relevant and competent. Of course, there is no need for the prosecutor's office and the police to intervene in civil proceedings; there is a civil court route or an out-of-court settlement for this. I replied to you very clearly that the information that I have at my disposal allows me to state that this is not a case of civil procedure, but that there is a reason to start criminal proceedings on the basis of the formations contained in the sections of the Penal Code. I would like to point out that civil proceedings, as I have already said, are not an obstacle or exclusion in criminal proceedings. My answer is unambiguous: I have not had any reason in this particular case for such incriminating questioning as you did. I don't have any information so I can admit your incriminating question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U130	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U131	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! You repeatedly claimed that you did not have any information to knowingly abuse your position. I am referring to this intervention by the Central Criminal Police and the Public Prosecutor's Office in civil disputes. Here comes my question. Where do you get your information? Have you carried out a monitoring procedure, or have you specifically obtained information on it, or are you relying on personal knowledge and the impression that this is not a motivated initiative to turn the other party off? On what basis do you claim that this is not the wish of one party, the Soraainen law firm, to turn the other party off with the help of the police and the prosecutor's office? Have you conducted an audit or a monitoring procedure that you can tell us that you have no information about it? What do you say that's based on?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U132	Thank you. I have based my position on explaining that I have described to you the procedure in force, including the procedure to be used when your incriminating circumstances have arisen. I described how these situations are resolved in the rule of law and what the logic of the monitoring procedures is. Of course, in the arsenal of the Minister of Justice there is no procedure for monitoring violations of procedural rules, whether it is a pre-trial or a judicial criminal procedure. That's what I wanted to point to. You claimed that civil proceedings had been interfered with and asked where I received the relevant information. I asked the DA's office if criminal proceedings had been initiated under the Civil Code. The answer was brief: in this case, criminal proceedings have, of course, been initiated in accordance with the rules of substantive law of the Penal Code on criminal proceedings. Some detailed examination of the circumstances of the case in some form of procedure when it comes to who went where and what I have not carried out. I don't think that would be my jurisdiction in this case either.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U133	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U134	Thank you. I understand from your reply that you came here to the Riigikogu to respond in a so-called way, without delving into the subject on which an inquiry has been made. However, you have had almost two months to find out in concrete terms whether or not such circumstances have occurred. We don't care about the sections you read to us here. The question still concerns a very specific case. In the same way, you did not respond to Mr Gräzin when he asked who and how he was supervising the prosecutor's office. You said it was happening somewhere in a chain. Do you think it's perfectly normal that the minister comes to the Riigikogu just to blur?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U135	No, I think that's totally unacceptable. In Parliament's speech chair, mist in the public representation room, that is to say, the fact that the question is essentially not answered could be legally sanctioned. Now I'm overdoing it. There is, of course, no reason to claim that I have not fully examined the content of your claim. Unfortunately, it is regrettable that there is no fact behind this statement. This is due to categories such as'suspected', etc. Regrettably, as I said, your inquiry did not contain the facts or the facts and my reply does not contain any facts that I could have in this case. Now that surveillance is going on somewhere in the chain. Of course, it's not in a chain or I don't know where. I told the good questioner Igor Gräzini that there is no imperialist monitoring system in this particular procedure, but that there are concrete legal follow-up actions by individual persons. They are subject to very clear supervision and are carried out within and not outside the justice system. At the same time, there are other monitoring formats outside the system, let's say. One supervisory format which is not legal in the sense that it does not monitor procedural procedures is the special committee on the supervision of security authorities referred to by Igor Gräzini as a representative democratic monitoring institution. I understand that the pathetic content of this question was very specific. Firstly, that it is actually possible to order the initiation of criminal cases in Estonia. Secondly, you have the suspicion that this is what has happened in this case. And third, in fact, criminal proceedings have been initiated to put pressure on the resolution of civil proceedings. To all these three arguments, I unambiguously replied that if this incriminating situation really existed, it would, of course, be a serious breach of law, which should be assessed by the Penal Code. But I don't have any information at my disposal that there's any reason for these suspicions. As regards supervision on the basis of these suspicions, if you have any concerns or doubts as to whether this is happening, I assure you that supervision will take place within this famous chain of justice. The Minister of Justice does not have the powers of such supervision under the law in force. I believe that your concern is borne out of a sincere desire to support the rule of law. I can tell you that we're on the same boat as you, on the same team. I assure you, the rule of law will work. But we have the land of men, not the land of angels, which means that there is always a chance in the rule of law that someone is breaking some standards. A person who is in law enforcement is corrupting and violating some other person. This possibility always exists, no matter how ideal the legal environment created by humans we live in. And for that there is both the monitoring mechanism and the rules to be applied to non-compliance.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U136	Raivo Põldaru.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U137	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! You just admitted that it's like you don't have a gun in an arsenal. But we, as a legislative body, maybe we can help you with this if you bring us such a draft. Maybe we could give you that gun.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U138	No, I pointed out that I believe that this model of the prosecutor's office and the functioning of the police in Central Europe, which we have chosen, has justified itself during this generation. Surely there is room for improvement in this system as well, it could certainly be developed and made more effective, like any system in the area of the functioning of state or public authority. However, as regards the supervision of the prosecutor's office or the handling of specific cases, I am extremely sceptical that a Minister with a political mandate should be given this competence. After all, your concern is that there is a threat to the rule of law: it seems that things can be dealt with somewhere around the corner. Believe me, in the rule of law, things have to look honest. If there is a situation where the Minister of Justice has the right to supervise the prosecutor's office in substantive or procedural matters, but also in matters of personality, I am afraid that so far only the apparent risk of political influence would arise in practice. So far, the credibility of our legal system is believed to be high in the eyes of the public. Our common interest is certainly to avoid this risk.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U139	Thank you very much, Minister. No further questions for you. Ladies and gentlemen, the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act provides that, after replying to an inquiry, the representative of the heirs will first receive the floor. I will now ask my colleague, Mr Helme, whether you are willing to surrender the right of the first speaker to your colleague in the negotiations. If so, Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U140	Thank you. Eight minutes, please! And I'm glad it's going that way.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U141	Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U142	First of all, I'm gonna make a little critical remarks about you, you're gonna fix my words right now, and your truth is on top. I mean, we often fall victim to our own naivety, goodwill, and honesty. This is what happened to the Minister of Justice today. There would have been only one correct and legally correct answer to the question: what is it to me? Because the Minister of Justice really does not have the slightest opportunity to exercise any kind of supervision or intervene in this matter at all. The fact that the Minister called the prosecutor's office to ask for something is undoubtedly worth launching political rather than official supervision. The Minister of Justice has no reason to call the prosecutor's office on matters other than, for example, investigating why they use a service car for private travel, where petrol disappeared and sugar stamps remained. That's all. Another thing I want to clarify. The system that we have created is not a central European one and not European at all, but a Soviet one. As we recall, the Soviet Constitution contained separate chapters on the judiciary and the prosecutor's office in the Soviet Union. It was true that there was a significant difference: the prosecutor's office was supervised and carried out by party bodies, in particular the administrative bodies of the Central Committee of the ECB. At present, the prosecutor's office is not even subject to such supervision. How far these things can go if we do not have a consistent system and thinking is also an excellent indication of how the Minister of Justice responded perfectly. By the way, why did he call? He asked if a criminal case was initiated in civil proceedings and received a definite answer: no. I think that was also the answer to the prosecutor's office's janitor, because the Minister had spoken just before that the prosecutor's office did not deal with civil matters. And by the way, he was absolutely right here. The Minister's answer: I have no information at my disposal. So what? Where did this information come from, because the Minister can't have any information other than what's in the daily newspapers. So, what can the Minister do? The answer is really nothing. But now that I've protected the minister, I'm trying to figure out where he's wrong and what I disagree with the minister. We're talking about a legal chain like running it all out, well, it's in a bunch. In other words, the Minister claims that the monitoring of justice is carried out on a corrupt basis and for corrupt purposes. I do not agree with the Minister here. Very many prosecutors and lawyers and police officers work in non-corruption; they work for the benefit of the Estonian state. And the control that works over the prosecutor's office is really non-legal. It's public opinion, newspapers, ultimately even here. The question is whether this in-chain monitoring is sufficient. In short, at one end there are six and at the other end there is a dog and surveillance works. I don't think it's quite the case that any other control should be ruled out. I think that we have no reason to assume that the US is a deeply anti-democratic country, although there have also been a number of unpleasant tendencies over the last ten years. Who's on trial in the United States right now? That's right, the Director General of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, who has been questioned in Congress about the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the special prosecutor appointed by the prosecutor's office. Interestingly, the prosecutors are caught there, not with corruption, but precisely with legal errors. And we're the little bunch here. Is everything that's gone wrong in the DA's office really limited to drinking that one jar of gin next to the Church of Niguliste, where a man was attacked by a mupo who, by the way, had no right? He just said about mypo that they were villains, and we agree that they may have been part of it back then. It is not right, in my opinion, to reduce the errors of the prosecutor's office to this. And here's the last thing. What the boys just picked up here is actually a very big and deep problem. I have been saying for years that the Estonian system has failed. If you want an example, this is the criminal proceedings of the Republic of Estonia, which were tried and, by the way, discussed here in the Riigikogu in 2003 and 2004. Today, we can say that nothing has been done to improve criminal proceedings, apart from changing detention periods, which are still long, unfounded and uncontrolled. There is no competitive process. On the one hand, we require the prosecutor's office to participate in a competing process, on the other hand, it does not provide sufficient time for preparation. At the same time, we have lost the inquisitionary role of the court, which in its time was balanced by the failure of the prosecutor's office to carry out the prosecution which it had prepared itself, and so on. In other words, this thing is running all over the place. And now there's going to be a strategic problem. In 20 years, the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Estonia has done nothing to balance this system in any way! And it's not going to help if we're just trying to fix the old Soviet system again. Should start from scratch and should write a code of normal criminal procedure, the sole purpose of which is independent justice. As far as the prosecutor's system and the justice minister's system are concerned, the Minister of Justice, objectively speaking, is in an idiotic situation in Estonia. On the one hand, he sees things go wrong, but there's nothing he can do. If he gets in there like he called now, some kind of Gräzin will come and say, but he can't call there! So what does this Justice Minister have to do before he shoots himself? There's nothing he can do! This is our system, and it means changing the entire Code of Criminal Procedure. And now the last question: Which way to go? But let it go to the verbatim as my personal opinion. In the Republic of Estonia, the Prosecutor General is not needed now or ever in the future. The Republic of Estonia has one Attorney General: it is the Minister of Justice who is subject to public opinion, which is also represented by the Riigikogu, and who, in that case, really comes here and Helme can ask him. And then when the fog starts coming, that's when Helme has the right to make a note of it. But right now, what do you want?! There's nothing a man can do, even if he's wanted to. And I hope he's wanted to.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U143	Martin Helme. Eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U144	Dear Deputy Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. Of course, Gräzin spoke of the painful experience of a lawyer. I don't have this experience, I've been in court in other roles, but yes, there is still a very big problem behind this question. I would have been grateful if the minister had just told me he couldn't do anything. There's nothing you can do! Then we might have been able to move on, discuss what needs to be changed. But, unfortunately, we are living in a country where we have some authorities, courts and the prosecutor's office, as well as some power structures that are not subject to anyone whose supervision is formal. Such a simulac, something that doesn't exist. It cannot be a free state, it cannot be a democratic state, in which research bodies and power structures are not subject to political supervision, because political supervision is, in fact, the will of the people through the ambassadors. We here do not want the Minister to act as prosecutors. We're not here either, detectives who should either go somewhere to write a complaint or put some kind of factory on the minister's desk. That is not our role. Our role is to deal with political surveillance. In the course of this political supervision, we referred to circumstances that are extremely confusing and perhaps also scared. If we have a rare situation that a very large, very rich law firm, made up of former high-ranking public officials, lodges a complaint against its opponent of civil litigation, and then we did not say that illegal, we said that disproportionate use of force structures, initiation of a criminal case, there is a question of what is going on. Then the question arises as to how all this is possible. Yes, of course, in the case of a civil dispute, it may happen that a civil dispute will be turned into a criminal dispute, which happens sometimes in Estonia. It can happen perfectly freely. However, in a particular case, the circumstances are such as to raise questions in all of us, because things have not happened as other situations have previously been resolved in Estonia. This is not the usual practice we have seen. I remember we were distrusting a minister here a month ago, and then they ran through the same names. The question is not that we sort of come up with someone's personal matter or for someone's benefit or, unfortunately, talking about something. We are extremely concerned that in Estonia it seems that the prosecutor's office does what it wants. What is the result of the inquiry we had on the sieve? It's what's left of it. That's exactly what's happening. The minister tried to tell us a lot about everything, but we didn't get an answer to what we asked. Has there been any kind of monitoring? Anything done? Is there any guarantee that nothing can happen? The real answer was that nothing can be done, nothing can be done. The real question now is what the legislator will do. Because I think we're on a very dangerous road. All our freedoms and the rule of law will not survive if we continue to do so. I just can't make it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U145	The Minister would like to speak. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U146	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Ladies and gentlemen, including the questioners! In these speeches, the question was whether anything had been done. Nothing has been done, no monitoring has been done. Is it guaranteed that nothing can happen? And then there was the accusation that the minister didn't say there was nothing to be done. I regret to say that I am confused by the speeches that have happened, what should be avoided and what cannot be done in this situation. We should still be very precise in our formulation. The speeches tried to point out, as I would have said, that there was no monitoring. No, I didn't! I described the authors of the inquiry as disturbing that I did so for too long or more to deal with the way in which these matters are monitored. Surveillance is in place, monitoring is working. It's not like there's no surveillance. Secondly, it is right that the supervision of criminal proceedings in the course of criminal proceedings, I must have repeated it ten times, both when answering questions and in my previous speech, such procedural supervision during pre-trial investigations, as you had in mind, is not carried out by the Minister of Justice in the Republic of Estonia. I won't! And I don't think I should. You treat as a virtue or ideal that there should be political monitoring of the substantive processing of cases in criminal proceedings. I understand you're thinking of monitoring whether to initiate a case or to end the case. If that is the case, then in the next phase there should also be monitoring of which punishment to impose, etc., etc. The previous speaker argued that we are in danger of the rule of law, that the current situation is dangerous. I think it would actually be dangerous to realise this line of reasoning. Igor wanted to incriminate me for calling somewhere and asking for secret information. However, the grounds for initiating a specific criminal procedure have been made public by the prosecutor's office and have also been brought to the public on its website. This isn't secret information. These sources are very public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U147	I will conclude the debate on this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U148	After a hammer hit, it is possible to register for a speech in the free microphone round. George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U149	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. It seems that for the first time in my life, I have a chance to talk to the hall so I don't have any listeners. Anyway, if...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U150	There's a listener behind you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U151	However, it is, yes. I would like to say here in the Riigikogu today, for the record of the verbatim, that if we are to vote for a new Auditor General in the near future, this is actually a more serious and dangerous task than the appointment of a very large number of other senior public officials, which will be decided in this Chamber as well. What's the reason? Unlike all other independent authorities, the National Audit Office has no direct obligation to carry out so-called intensive and diligent work. All others are either directly prescribed by law or, in the case of the Chancellor of Justice, it is a constant pressure on citizens' letters. But in the work of the National Audit Office, it is quite possible that the work has been done formally, but basically it has been semi-creating or has dealt with non-essential issues. And this makes the personal qualities of the Head of the National Audit Office more important than those of many other such officials. The value of this office, the quality of the work, depends mainly on whether the head of the department internally burns to ensure that his subordinates, his institution does the best possible work. That's one problem. Another problem is that, in principle, this is one of the professions, such as the position of a newly dissolved county governor, which has been accompanied by a very positive public assessment, which has almost nothing to do with the intent of the head of the administration to do his job. In this regard, we have had an interesting experience: namely that Juhan Parts, who became the Auditor General as a quite young man, took advantage of the opportunities of this position to pursue a personal political career together with his friends and fellow fighters. When a new Auditor General is appointed, the question is whether there is a risk that the Juhan Parts case might happen again, or whether it is excluded. In general, in order to rule out this possibility, it is practiced in the world that senior public figures or politicians who have reached the final stage of their career in public activities are appointed as Auditors of State. In general, it is a pre-retirement position. It is quite unusual for a young person to be placed in this position at the beginning of his public career. We have a regrettable experience in this area in the form of Juhan Parts: the choice proved unjustified and brought with it bad consequences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-05_U152	Thank you very much, George Adams. If you do not want to speak on another subject, I will close today's sitting. I'll see you tomorrow morning at 10:00. Closure of the sitting at 6.26 p.m.
