ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Question Time. Incoming check, please! There are currently 46 members of the Riigikogu. Among the members of the Government of the Republic are Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Minister of Culture Indrek Saar and Minister of Finance Toomas Tõniste. I will give each subject an opportunity to ask for an additional question, but first of all I would like to thank the leaders of the political groups and the members of the Riigikogu for their cooperation in preparing today's Question Time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U2	The first questioner is Mart Helme and the first answer is Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U3	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! As we know, the planned closure of the maternity units in Põlva and Valga has found very serious opposition to society. This has even gone absurd at times, because I believe that Valgas is planning an action to install a car in a parking lot near the maternity hospital where the needy can give birth. The regional minister you are to be appointed has also said that it is possible to give birth in a field. Do you not think that all of this still points to a very abnormal situation that has evolved around county hospitals and, above all, maternity departments?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U4	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Members of the Riigikogu! Good questioner, thank you for your question. Indeed, for the maternity department, two hospitals, both Põlva and Valga hospital councils, have made their decision. Maybe a few words about statistics. The Põlva Hospital was born in 306 in 2006 and 236 new weather citizens in 2016, so that the Valga Hospital was born in 247 in 2006 and 132 in 2016, with 115 births falling. The Health Insurance Fund paid more than EUR 256000 for these deliveries to the hospital in Põlva and more than EUR 149000 to the hospital in Valga. The cost of equipment depreciation, medicines and medical equipment is added to the cost of €150 to €200 per delivery. Now for the closure of these departments. I have also visited South-East Estonia in both Põlva and Valga, both hospitals. I have said that I do not think it is right for such a service to disappear. Of course, the Prime Minister does not decide on a health or medical aspect; it must still remain the property of professionals or, let's say, medical staff. At the same time, I have received a letter from both Valga's councillor and Valga's parish elder. They say they want the maternity department to keep working. I have said that I am sincerely prepared to contribute to this in order to find the funds to prevent the obstetrics from being closed if there is a chance that this will not worsen the health or medical aspect. I will continue to take that view. In my opinion, these discussions should be planned in the coming weeks and found the best way.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U5	Mart Helme's point of clarification, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U6	Thank you. The media have gone through that continuing the work of these departments is not actually so unreasonablely expensive. If the justification has been that it is not possible to guarantee high quality obstetrics there, it can be said that, of course, it is possible to find resources and also to find doctors, either for an extra fee or with some other incentive. You say you can't decide. But who can decide? If the Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia cannot decide, who can decide?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U7	Thank you. Don't you have the ability to interpret answers differently? Yes, of course, the Prime Minister will not make a medical decision. Who can decide? These are the Supervisory Board of Põlva Hospital and Valga Hospital, which has decided that the date is October 1st and July 1st at Valga Hospital in Põlva Hospital. What can the Prime Minister decide? I have made this promise that when it comes to financial resources and this decision does not worsen the health situation of the mother or baby or raise the risk of putting them at risk, and that is what medical workers in both Põlva and Valga say, I think that a solution must be found. I have been in contact with both members of the hospital board today, as well as the representative of the University Hospital of Tartu. Their claim at the moment is that we are talking about Põlva and Valga in three hospitals in South-East Estonia, but we also need to talk about the maternity department at the Võru Hospital, because the number of deliveries is lower everywhere than it was a few years ago, it is about EUR 600000 per hospital. If that is the case, and if they say that they can provide medical support at a higher level, not at the same level as today, then I believe that the members of the government should make a joint effort and find these opportunities. Like I said, I'll be ready for that in the coming weeks. When we talk about Valga Hospital, having been in contact with this hospital today, I am aware that the last gynecologist who worked every day and only in that hospital will most likely no longer continue his work there. So these decisions must be made, I think, in the coming weeks, also in view of the fact that there has always been collective leave at Valga Hospital.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U8	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U9	Thank you, Mr President. Very honourable Prime Minister! My question is a little more philosophical, however, based on the example of obstetrics. Who and how in Estonia makes health policy decisions and manages health care in Estonia, whether hospitals, Ministry of Social Affairs, Health Insurance Fund, Government of the Republic? Who says which services should be guaranteed at county level, which maybe at regional hospital level, which ones at the University of Tartu Hospital, for example? You say that you disagree with the decision made by Valga's Hospital Board or also by the Põlva Hospital Board. The question arises as to who will lead and who will tell people what must be guaranteed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U10	Thank you. If we are talking about hospitals in south-eastern Estonia, specifically Valga or Põlva hospital (the Võru hospital is a similar example), then we know that 51% is owned by the University of Tartu Hospital and the rest by the municipality. Who makes these decisions? The answer is that in Põlva and Valga they are made by the hospital council, just as in Võru. The council has members from both the University of Tartu Hospital and the local government. When we talk about decisions, they are decisions at different levels. One is a financial decision, and this is done by the Health Insurance Fund and the University of Tartu Hospital. When we are talking about additional resources, the additional resources are provided either by the University of Tartu Hospital or by the Government of the Republic in exceptional circumstances. The Government of the Republic can only make special allocations from the reserve fund. This implies that there is consensus or consensus in the government when it comes to this decision. I really do not think that politicians must take responsibility here and say that, in any case, maternity departments must be open there. We must first get input from the hospital or medical staff. According to today's information, medical personnel in both hospitals and hospital councils are saying that they are ready to continue the work of the maternity departments, but the question is the lack of financial cover. This is, I think, what should be debated, as I answered the previous questioner, in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U11	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U12	The next question to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas will be asked by Arto Aas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U13	Mr. Prime Minister! With great regularity, the members of the Central Party government and the leading figures question the fundamentals of the security, language and citizenship policy of the Estonian state. There have been doubts about Estonia's membership of NATO, the new Minister of State Administration thinks that Russian should be the second official language, and Yana Toom is organising events in the Euro Parliament that detract from the Estonian state, also demanding the right to vote for the owners of the grey passport. It's definitely not random. I ask you, as Prime Minister and Chairman of the Centre Party, why you allow such speeches and events to take place. Is this your conscious choice?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U14	Thank you for this question. So let's come to your three questions. NATO first. No, the Centre Party has never questioned NATO membership. On the contrary, I have told you here before the Riigikogu that I believe that Estonia must continue its active membership of NATO, that membership does not need to be passive. In my opinion, the current government has made it very clear, and also financially, that, in addition to strengthening the External Action Service, Estonia's security policy and defence policy must be strengthened. What does that mean? This means that when the coalition was established on 23 November 2016, we decided to invest an additional EUR 20 million in defence every three years. When we completed the negotiations on the country's budgetary strategy for the years 2019 to 20/2020 a few weeks ago, we extended the programme of national defence investments for the years 2021 and 2022, with EUR 20 million foreseen for both years. That's a first. Secondly, you have highlighted another national language. § 6 of the Constitution is still in force, the Centre Party has not requested or will apply for another official language. Estonia has the most beautiful, most beautiful and cutest language, it is Estonian, and it remains the only national language in Estonia. If the Reform Party wants to come up with this proposal, I will say right away that we do not support it. On the contrary, we support better language learning in kindergartens, for example. I am pleased that the country's budget strategy foresees that we will also go pro-actively to Russian-speaking kindergartens to offer education in Estonian. I think this is the right direction. So this isn't going to work out between us and your partnership. I guess our discussion's going on, but unfortunately, we're running out of time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U15	The discussion goes on. Arto Aas, please specify the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U16	Thank you. However, I recall that my claim that NATO membership is a mistake has not been regretted by the former Minister of State Administration, at least in the Russian media he has not withdrawn his words, and today he is in a very high position, Secretary General of the Centre Party. Under the leadership of the Centre Party, there is the protection of Russian schools in Tallinn, which can also be called the Russification Policy. You are, for some reason, opposed to the transition to Estonian-language education in all Russian schools. So you had failed these examples. But if Yana Toom denigrates the Estonian state in the European Parliament and allegedly does not represent your views there, yet being a representative of your party in the European Parliament, one of the biggest voices magnets of the Centre Party, then I have the question: will you decisively put an end to this, or will you take Yana Toomi out of the Centre Party?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U17	Thank you, dear Arto Aas. I think you have really seen in your party such a political culture that the chairman of the party commands and so goes, there are no other discussions. I have not been able to answer one part of your first question, which you also referred to in the second question. We are talking about this so-called petition, which was being debated at European Parliament level, so that people with grey passports can vote in the European Parliament elections. I said in public, no, I don't think it's right. I do not think that this is at all the solution to the question or the main problem. We in Estonia must be able to offer a solution to those stateless persons who have about 80000. I think this is a problem for Estonia. You speak Estonian in schools. I think this is a good thing, but I think we need to take a step forward and increase the level of ambition. I also call on the Reform Party to support the plan of today's government in order to take Estonian language education even more actively to kindergartens. The Ministry of Education and Research has two types of resources here. First, teachers' salaries in Russian-speaking kindergartens. But I think it is very important when we talk about digital society and a country that offers good digital solutions, that we can also offer digital solutions for learning Estonian in kindergartens. I call on the Reform Party and personally on you, Mr Arto Aas, to support this idea of today's government. This, in my opinion, is the right step towards improving language learning. You were talking about the previous Minister of State Administration. He gave his clear comment that he supported Estonia's membership of NATO before he resigned. But really, he took political responsibility, not like some Minister of the Reform Party who has been in the grip of this conflict for six or ten months and only then resigned. Political culture foresees that responsibility must be taken more quickly, not in months, but in days.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U18	Thank you. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! Can you conclude from your previous answers that the Estonian citizenship policy will not change under your leadership? However, how do you comment on the claims of the representatives of the Centre Party who have said that changing language and citizenship policy is the goal of the Centre Party?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U20	Thank you. When we speak the national language, of course, this will not change. When we talk about citizenship policy, I have said it, and I am saying it today, that I think 80000 non-citizens in Estonian society are a problem and it has to be resolved somehow. I really support the fact that these people are choosing more and more Estonian citizenship. I think it is Estonia's security, Estonia's internal security and external security, but I also dare say that Estonia's unity is a question. The more Estonian citizens here in Estonia, the better. So that's what we're definitely working on. I do not think it is right that we continue to give 'grey passports' to those children who are born. I think we should find such an opportunity that Estonia will no longer give these young people gray passports, but Estonian citizenship. To these debates, I am completely open.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U21	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U22	The next question is the Minister of Culture, Indrek Saare. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Minister of Culture! The state's budget strategy includes the cost of repairing public foundations under the Ministry of Culture since 2019, which I understand is EUR 2 million recorded each year. What is this EUR 2 million, what is the basis for it and which agencies should it cover?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U24	Thank you, good questioner! First of all, I would like to congratulate you that you have studied the country's budgetary strategy very thoroughly and have found, at first sight, perhaps not the most glamorous thing like the repair fund, which, on the other hand, is the basis for a very large number of our cultural institutions to operate in the long term. The problem has been that the state's real estate strategy so far has largely preferred the accumulated real estate portfolio of Riigi Kinnisvara AS due to various decisions made during history. It has always been guaranteed by a'repair fund' designed to preserve the state's assets, to behave prudently with this asset, to do the necessary repairs in due time, to make sure that the infrastructure is in good condition and that all institutions can operate in modern ways in their buildings. Unfortunately, there has been no such thing on the part of foundations and public bodies under the administration of the Ministry of Culture. There are 20 such foundations, after my memory, and three public bodies. I can assure you that there are three public entities. This has meant that if the state wants to do whatever ongoing repairs a good real estate owner, a good landlord always has to plan, then you have to go to the state budget to ask for additional money. Of course, the order is always long, and that means that some things are not done for a very long time. Fortunately, we have reached an agreement, and I am very grateful to my colleagues for agreeing to it. The first step is done. This is far from sufficient to ensure that the state's real estate is in good shape in the run, but it is a step in the right direction. Indeed, as you said, this money has been included in the base, so in 2019 and beyond, 2 million are foreseen each year according to current knowledge.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U25	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Minister of Culture. Am I right to understand that now three public institutions and all foundations should quickly form a queue in order to claim this money? For example, should the Open Air Museum, which is also a rather fresh and young foundation and would like to use the Liberty complex, claim to these repair tools, or the Ministry of Culture sees another solution here?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U27	When we talk about foundations, we have to take into account that in many cases their assets have been partly allocated to the RKAS. So, in fact, it's already a rental relationship, and the RKAS has always been calculated to have the same repair fund. If we compare today's amount to what might ideally be the amount for the repair fund, here are some nuances. First of all, for years there was no fund at all. In a large number of houses, the situation is much more critical than it would have been if there had been a repair fund. For example, let us look at the National Library. If we had a repair fund since the early 1990s, we might not be looking for investments today. In today's situation, we cannot hope that we will be able to do everything with this 2 million, with 23 precedents for our different buildings, this order has, in fact, been mentally formed over the years, and it cannot be imagined that we would be able to cover the 50-million-dollar investment that the National Library now needs to cover from this repair fund. Absolutely not. In addition, the repair fund will have to cover 250,000 square metres, and this 2 million is three times less than what we applied for next year. Perhaps if you consider that the price per square metre is the same as the price for the SKAS, EUR 24, it should be 6 million, not 2 million. If we come to the ideal that the RKAS and real estate are expected to achieve, not 1.5% of the real estate price, but 3%, then it should be twice as high, i.e. EUR 11750000. Then we could talk about that...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U28	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U29	... it's sustainable.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U30	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U31	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! Today, the Special Committee on State Budget Control introduced the RES, which identified about four priority areas for each ministry. Under the Ministry of Culture, the realization of the investment needs of sports establishments or sports facilities over the next four years was highlighted. Can you specify the amount of money we are talking about, the contribution of the state, the Estonian taxpayer, to the European Union's structural funds? I imagine that this includes regional sports facilities and buildings. On what basis will they be able to receive this support?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U32	Thank you for your question. First of all, if you go on with this repair fund, there are two state foundations: Tehvandi and Jõulumäe. These are two sports objects that are directly affected by this repair fund. We do not yet have any priority table regarding the repair fund. This is a freshly obtained decision that we have actually been asking for years so that we can begin this work. As I said, it is far from ideal and sustainable in the long term. But on the basis of today's knowledge, we are asking all these foundations and public institutions for a repair plan for the next four years, too, they are not all ready for this, they must review their affairs and submit these plans for the purpose of reaching the reference data in the autumn, on the basis of which we can see where the most burning situation is. This money is not meant to build new buildings or create new functions; it is meant to repair existing buildings. I think that you may have prioritised this new initiative in the debate on the RES, which is also reflected in the national budget strategy. It is EUR 600000 per year for each of the next four years, which is intended to support health sports centres, i.e. to ensure that there is a uniform network of health sports trails available in all regions throughout Estonia. Our idea is to help local governments and non-profit organisations that currently manage them. We know that there are over a hundred official health trails in Estonia. We certainly can't help all of them, but we're trying to support them in an average of one or two in every county, where there's always snow in every winter, whether it's snowing or not, so you can teach a child how to ski, you can go there for a bike ride and for a health sport, walk, play discgolf, or whatever other possibilities there are to spend family time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U33	Thank you. That's very nice. Time's up. Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U34	The next question to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas will be asked by Jaak Madison. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U35	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Prime Minister! I will start by reading the quote: 'But if I mean it, in the course of this work I realized very simply that Valgas can give birth peacefully, in Estonia it can also be given birth on a field. 11 people in Estonia give birth in a car, such things happen all the time. ' This is the new Minister of Public Administration's understanding of the delivery conditions in Estonia's small places, which has been appointed by the President today. Is this actually going to illustrate the current government's policy and attitude towards regional policy, the need to maintain public services in small places? Is this going to be a new normality because you personally have proposed to Janek Mägg to take up this very responsible post?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U36	Thank you, good questioner! It is true that the work of a member of the Government of the Republic is very responsible and that this person bears very important responsibility. That is what a member of the government will actually say in less than an hour's time in your face, when he says that if he takes up the duties of a member of the Government of the Republic, he will be aware that he is responsible for this position in the Republic of Estonia and his conscience. In the same oath, he also says that he solemnly promises to remain faithful to the constitutional order of the Republic of Estonia and to devote his strength to securing the well-being and future of the Estonian people. I think it is very important, it is not just a few sentences that a member of the government reads in front of this honourable Riigikogu. On the other hand, what you started your question with. He described the story of his family, certainly it was not a value assessment of Estonian regional policy or some kind of assessment of how things should work. I believe that we both believe that maternity facilities in hospitals across Estonia must be as widely as possible. I am pleased that before I had the opportunity to debate this matter with the chairman of your party, Mr Helme. I think we need to look at it the other way when you asked. It is important to make sure that all services and people are not concentrated in Tallinn or Tartu alone. We must make sure that the services are as widely available in Estonia as possible so that we contribute to state buildings and the removal of employees from Tallinn, for example, also to the removal of head offices from Tallinn. Regional policy measures are also for this government, be it the Ida-Virumaa programme...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U37	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U38	... or the Southeast Estonia program, extremely important. I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman, I'm out of time!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U39	Apology accepted. Jaak Madison, please specify the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U40	Thank you. I am certainly afraid that the new minister has not understood your views well because he said very clearly in the 'Actual Camera' interview that the conditions will continue to be very, very good, even if Valga and Põlva can no longer give birth in the hospital but only on the field. I'm afraid even at the moment he knew this responsibility would come to him, he didn't really take up his position or his responsibility. So you may understand the same thing, but I'm afraid he doesn't understand it that way. But let's do a second quote on peripheralisation and the extinction of rural areas: 'But this cannot be changed by political decisions alone, because the world also moves to large cities and this trend is not only in Estonia but in the whole world. " Is this also a new concept in the current government that it does not matter, that we cannot change the tendency of peripheralization with political decisions anyway? So, the question is, what does a minister need at all if he cannot change this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U41	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U42	Thank you, very honourable member of the Riigikogu. I've said here before, don't be afraid. It's bad when a member of the Riigikogu is afraid. You said you were scared. Either way, I'm trying to help make sure you're not scared. I do not know that some level of danger has risen in Estonia, and you do not need to be afraid. We are trying to find solutions together, as can be done with the EKRE, in a spirit of good cooperation. When we talk about these conditions, I think that in this sense we must not underestimate, for example, the professionalism and operationality of the Estonian ambulance. There's nothing to do, but sometimes in life, when we call 112, we need emergency services, police, or an ambulance to respond very quickly. In the medical field, this response is, of course, an ambulance. I want to pay tribute to paramedics, paramedics, car coffins, who always do this job in a very high voltage situation, and in fact, it doesn't matter for minutes, it doesn't count for seconds. So really, the ambulance service in Estonia is, I think, very high quality. When we talk about childbirth again, I said that the maternity department should be in as many places as possible in Estonia, not only in Tallinn and Tartu, but also in Southeast Estonia. Now that the world and the European Union are agglomerating. I think I am not mistaken when I say to the honourable Vice-Chairman of the European Union Committee for Affairs: in Europe, perhaps four fifths of people live in metropolises or cities. I don't think you can accept that. On the contrary, we must contribute to the possibility of life outside the city. Better transport connections, better internet, better health care service, this is what we work for every day.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U43	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U44	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Prime Minister! No, we're not afraid of anything here. We're the only party in this room who's not afraid. I come back to the question. In fact, it also ties in with the subject of my question, which we started our briefing on today. You spoke of political decisions, and Jaak Madison, the foreman, spoke of political decisions. My question is again about Valga and Põlva, but the evil languages are already talking about Võru. When you say that making these decisions is the prerogative of lower-level institutions, I, on the contrary, say to you that such important regional policy decisions are very clearly political decisions at government level. Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U45	Thank you. First of all, I thank the honourable Riigikogu member Jagu for his fears in cooperation. It's important. Thank you for coming to help, I couldn't get as close as you did. When we talk about regional policy decisions, I would not be less important here in the Riigikogu. I sincerely think that the Riigikogu is a very important partner, in fact, in the case of very many subjects also a leader and a spokesperson, the government in the same way. If it is only a matter of regional policy decision, as in the case of the deepening of the Rye Canal, it cannot be that it is not included in, for example, the national budget strategy. Today's government has written it in. This is, of course, a regional policy decision; an operational solution must be found. I can also give you an example that this question about Saaremaa and Hiiumaa would be in the parking area: Kuressaare and Tallinn air connection. This is, of course, a regional policy decision, and here the government has taken very concrete and very operational steps, because a larger aircraft is needed on the route between Kuressaare and Tallinn. Next, if you ask about regional policy decisions. For example, the same program in Ida-Virumaa. A lot's been said, nothing's been done. Today's government did it. The Southeast Estonia programme is a new initiative of today's government. I'll come back to Põlva and Valga. A medical decision cannot be a purely regional decision of politicians. I think at any moment, by contributing to this decision, whether we can guarantee an adequate medical level and quality of service, both high quality personnel and equipment, that if something goes wrong in the course of childbirth, the mother and the new world citizen, the baby, will be protected. I think we can jointly find the best solution for South-East Estonia to keep this service there. I believe in it, and I'm working on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U46	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U47	The next question to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas will be asked by Liina Kersna. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U48	Thank you. Prime Minister! Lawyer Kari Käsper considers that the appointment of a public relations officer as a minister is not in line with the recommendations of the Council of Europe, according to which a person whose activity has been in the interest of influencing politicians should not take up a political post directly. In recent days, our practice has been that the press directly refers to the risk of corruption, you assess it in such a way that when the sole owner of a lobby company has withdrawn from the company's operational management, there is no risk of corruption, and the PR itself advises journalists to draw up a list of its cooperation partners on the basis of public data. How do you feel, Prime Minister, is this practice appropriate for a Western democratic society?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U49	Thank you, good questioner. I wish you strength and thank you very much for this question. I think this is an important debate. Very often we hear in Estonian society that politicians have somehow closed the circle, politics is very closed, for some reason the good specialists of their field, with strong leadership experience, people with strong volunteering contributions, are not coming into politics. I am very pleased that I have today proposed to the honourable President of the Republic of Estonia the appointment of a point one, Mrs Riina Sikkut. It is a very well-informed person in a social field. I also proposed the appointment of Mr Janek Mäggi, who is indeed a person who has been excited with very extensive management experience, with a high level of education, who has contributed much to volunteering. I am pleased that the President of the Republic signed it and agreed with my proposal. Now, what you're implying. I think that is this aspect of openness. Openness and clarity are important here. If we're talking about Mr. Janek Mägg, he's said he's reducing himself from running a business, he's no longer running a business. He's found a new CEO, and I think it's the very right approach that the border is very specifically tucked in. I know he had a conversation with the president today. He said that if he had to decide at one point that he was going out of politics, he would have to consider that he couldn't go straight to the parties to advise. He accepted it completely. I think these are important points of view. Sometimes it happens that politicians from this very hall go into public relations, for example. I know a very nice politician who was in your party and went to work at a PR firm. I'm not saying he did the wrong thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U50	Liina Kersna, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U51	Thank you. It is very notable that you really do not understand where the problem is, despite the fact that the President also very clearly raised this problem. But Janek Mäggi has said in public that she is taking the office as a minister as a training officer. In addition, he has repeatedly complained about the lack of a politically experienced employee in his company, so he has also had to give up his work. Now he's going to be a minister to train himself to get better jobs in the future. How do you feel about this speech affecting the image of government?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U52	It seems to me, Mrs. Liina Kersna, that you have acquired the highest political pilotage in bringing such things together. Even I can't think like you do now, but of course I'm not that powerful. What do I want to say about that? Janek Mäggi has said that she will stop entrepreneurship, and if she becomes a minister, she will do this work responsibly and contribute to it every day. That responsibility, that responsibility on his shoulders, is great. On the one hand, you said in the first question that it was somehow bad when he was involved in public relations, on the other hand, you say that you see such an incompetent company he didn't get any jobs. It is true that he has also told me that there have been some procurements in the private sector where he has participated and has had to say that the company has no former politicians at work. Well, it was my example that some political parties have gone to organise public relations, and I think they have done so very well. Now for the training you were talking about. There's a lesson in life every day. Tomorrow we'll always be smarter than we are today. In my opinion, the wisdom of the old people is that it is a very good man who learns from the mistakes of others, and a very, very good man who can learn from his mistakes. I guess we train each other every day. If you think, for example, that a member of the Riigikogu is ready or, I don't know, the mayor or prime minister is ready, then I, having also been the head of a small government, cannot say that I knew all the topics from the first second. Still got to get up to speed. I think it's better to keep a little lower profile in any case and not to say that I know everything.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U53	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! I'm going to continue a conversation that we had on Monday's questioning. This concerned the activities of Est-For and Ministers. Now, taking the light from the presence of a well-known lobbyist in the composition of the Government of the Republic, I ask you if you support the establishment of lobbying rules for the ministers of the Government of the Republic.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U55	Thank you. Just as I may have replied to your questioning, I am also replying today that any increase in transparency and openness I support in any case. I think it's right. It was probably in the previous composition, if I am not mistaken, in the 12th composition, when a member of the Riigikogu tried very hard to come to this Riigikogu, the plenary hall of the Riigikogu, with their so-called lobbying rules. He made some progress, but certainly not the kind he had hoped for when he began to draw up this document. But I think that any openness, transparency and specificity are important. I certainly support that.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U56	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U57	The next question for Prime Minister Jüri Ratas comes from Artur Talvik. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U58	Thank you! Good Prime Minister! The task of the government is also to protect the so-called weaker party in society. The Free Party is trying to do this every day, perhaps to keep this kind of justice in society. My question concerns the situation of small shareholders and small investors in Estonia. We have had a few very well-known cases, the case of Telia's small shareholders, and now the case of small investors in Swedbank, the case of the purchase of Romanian land. What has the government done to improve the situation of small shareholders and small investors in Estonia and to protect them from large banks, large corporations and some companies that do not want to comply with these "good practice" rules?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U59	Thank you for that question. I think this question is very legitimate. In fact, in the wider picture, it deals with the business and economic climate in Estonia and how attractive Estonia and Estonia's business environment is to make investments. In answer to your question, which then the government has done, I met with representatives of small shareholders and small investors in March this year, who introduced their concerns and their requests to resolve this problem. The representatives of small shareholders had a number of proposals concerning amendments to the Law of Property Act and the Code of Civil Procedure. The Justice Department is seriously involved. At this meeting there was also the Minister of Justice, and on this subject you, I mean the Free Party, have submitted an inquiry to the Minister of Justice. Minister a few months ago, January 22nd s. a, answered this question. According to the Minister, a review of company law is underway and has also given the task of analysing and proposing the strengthening of the protection of minority shareholders' rights. The aim is for the best national civil law experts to propose improved solutions to the whole system. The Commercial Code and the entire civil dispute settlement system are whole and must take into account a number of types of balance, whether it is the protection of property rights or the functioning of the economic environment. As far as I know, the final review of corporate law should be completed by 2020.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U60	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U61	Thank you! I remember this conversation with the Minister of Justice during his questioning. Unfortunately, there was the sound of this analysis and the work of the panel taking years, the result being pushed back to what was known as 'years'. On the other hand, it sounded like an attempt was made to introduce the so-called middleman status, i.e. to create another state office. We already have a large number of national posts in Estonia. But I come to the small investors for a moment and specifically to the Swedbank case, where it was obvious that due diligence had been violated. What are these levers, how can a government, too, draw attention to such a large and important bank that they do not act properly toward us?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U62	Thank you. I think the first lever is that we believe, point one, that the business sector behaves honestly and in accordance with the rules. Point two, right, everyone must behave in accordance with the laws in force in that country. Point three, I don't think you meant it, but if we're talking about the banking sector, it doesn't apply to Swedbank now, but we've had these examples in other banks, then money laundering control is done by two authorities: the Financial Supervision Authority and the Police and Border Guard Board. What else can we do? I think that there have been some examples of these in larger companies, which also carry out internationally. Once again, it has nothing to do with this bank, there have been other areas. There have been problems that the rights of small shareholders are not sufficiently protected. As far as I know, there are certain court cases on this subject, these disputes are ongoing. That is, I think, the most important principle that we have the principle of separation of powers, and then the court can finally make those decisions. But to make the system even more transparent and better, I support it in any case. I do not think that, in this work, we should increase red tape once again. In my opinion, this should certainly not be part or purpose of this solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U63	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U64	Thank you, good Chairman. Thank you, Prime Minister. At the end of that last answer, I will continue. A good economic environment, as you emphasise yourself, is part of the country's attractiveness and well-being. I certainly would not put all the cases in line, there are disputes, they are in court, but the case that Artur Talvik referred to has attracted attention to the public precisely because a large institution that offers trust more widely than only to its customers, perhaps also to future customers, as a system as a whole, has perhaps not acted in a way that recreates this trust. Mr Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, has said that the solution would be to create a new mediator or ombudsman, i.e. an expensive post. My question to you is, what solutions do you see? Do you think it's so bad that we should create a new expensive position?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U65	Thank you, good questioner! I am sincerely pleased that we can debate on the issues relating to the Estonian economic environment, because unfortunately you do not speak on these issues very often in the Riigikogu when we have a debate here. But discussing economic issues is, in my opinion, very right and must be contributed. In recent times, thanks to our entrepreneurs, we have seen quite good economic growth. In my opinion, it is the duty of the members of the Riigikogu, as well as of the government, to ensure that this economic upturn is as sustainable and long-term as possible and also as inclusive as possible, so that it reaches as many people as possible in Estonia. I'm always happy to have a debate with you. It's a good ad for you and me, and soon I'll be back on your Facebook page with this video. In my opinion, here, too, you must be commended for your operationality. As I said, the final review of company law should be completed by the end of 2020. You mentioned some positions. No, you shouldn't say that at all. If any positions need to be created, it must be seriously considered, but I think the primary solution should be that we are not increasing bureaucracy in Estonia, but moving towards reducing it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U66	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U67	The seventh question, with Prime Minister Jüri Ratas presenting the sixth question to Monika Haukamm. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U68	Thank you, Mr President. Very honourable Prime Minister! At the beginning of this year, the Secretary-General of the Centre Party, Mr Korb, made a promise that no later than 2019/2020. The pension will rise by an exceptional amount of EUR 100 for 2009. It took some time, you rushed to fix him, and you said no, you'd rather have a pension of 60 or 70 euros. This promise is expensive, it costs up to 500 million euros. We also received a national budget strategy for the next four years last week. I was wondering if we could find that number inside. No, I didn't. Why, then, is it not inside, or was it an early, unprotected election permit?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U69	Thank you, good questioner. Knowing that you know this area through and through, made me flinch at your assessment of our elderly, our pensioners, and our retirement, that it is awfully expensive. I really hope what I read out of here doesn't mean you don't support it. I think it's not scary, it's really necessary. The decision that the average old-age pension in Estonia should not be lower than the limit of relative poverty should have been made a long time ago. Really, we've come up with ideas, just like any party. I believe that the Free Party will also come up with its ideas for the elections that will come on 3 March 2019. Yeah, the Central Party thinks pensions have to rise. The Centre Party believes that indexation of pensions is not enough. We are very happy that the Estonian economy and the residents of Estonia have given this opportunity that at the beginning of April this year the pension increase could be about 7.6%. If we take this year's example and 40 to 44 years of service, I think the pension increase was EUR 35 to 40. Yes, we have said that this extraordinary pension increase plus indexation must mean an increase of EUR 100 from 1 April 2020. This is the mandate that we are going to ask the Estonian people in these elections. Indeed, if we say that indexing is 30 or 40 euros, and if you add 60 or 70 and 30 or 40, that is 100 euros in total. I say it's very necessary. I think it's a value-based approach. These people have contributed very much to the Estonian state with their work, and I think we must pay them the best possible pension.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U70	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U71	Thank you. Prime Minister! You did not understand my question correctly and correctly. I didn't say that we had enough pensions or that they didn't need to be raised. Undoubtedly, our pensions are very low. 446 euros, which is an average pension, is no longer sufficient if we think about what is happening to the increase in the cost of living, which we have unfortunately contributed to here too. Life hasn't gotten any cheaper. But my question was why this amount is not reflected in the country's budget strategy. Long-term and very expensive promises, I think, EUR 500 million per year is an expensive promise, but it is not reflected in the country's budget strategy. So, who and what are they planning to raise pensions, which is very much needed?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U72	Thank you. First of all, I think it is good that we are here with you and I believe that, in general, with the members of the Free Party and with your voters, there is a consensus that pensions are not enough in Estonia and that they need to be raised. Personally, and my party, we are of the opinion that making such fundamental changes to Estonian society, point one, needs a public debate, point two, it needs a specific source of cover, point three, it also needs analysis. I think that the best time is before 3 March to debate and say what the views of the parties are. If the Free Party has also started to support our position on the rise in pensions, I think it is excellent and we can certainly work together on this. Your assessment of the cost of the extraordinary rise in pensions, you said that this is EUR 500 million, is not correct. If we are talking about an extraordinary increase in pensions plus indexation (an extraordinary increase of EUR 60.70 per month and, in addition, indexation, resulting in an increase of EUR 30.40), this order of magnitude is EUR 200.250 million, so this cost is lower. If you ask me where the money comes from, I don't know that anyone would have figured out another place where the money comes from in the state budget. It comes from the Estonian people, from Estonian taxpayers, from Estonian business, because of the increase in our exports. That is why I replied to Mr Michal, a very respected member of the Riigikogu, that the economic environment must be addressed so that economic growth can be sustainable. So it must and must be debated from the Estonian state budget. The fact that we have a common role in this matter is very nice.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U73	The last question of Question Time is asked by the member of the Riigikogu. Please, Kristen Michal!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U74	Thank you, good Chairman. Good Prime Minister! Jüri Ratas, as chairman of the Centre Party, Prime Minister and leader of this government, you will go to history. Your government is the first government to reduce pensions for Estonian pensioners. Higher taxation of pensions for working pensioners is entirely wrong. Experienced workers are needed in the economy, people have the skills to be active and, if they also contribute to the tax fund for other pensions, it is a very dignified and appropriate activity. I have a simple question for you: when will the Coalition support the Reform Party's proposal to abolish higher taxation of working pensioners?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U75	Thank you for your question. Whoever goes down in history and who doesn't, I really don't appreciate it. I suppose you, too, will go down in history with your actions, with their good deeds, I hope. But it has really been our desire to improve the situation of pensioners. We have also brought changes to the pension reform before the Riigikogu. What does that mean? When we talk about the percentage of old-age pension that represents the average salary, it is now 29%. If we did not do this pension reform, which is now before you, then in 2050 the minimum wage pension would be 21% of the average wage, which will result in 29%. I can give you the following example. The percentage of people earning average wages is 34 now, if we did not reform it would be 36% in 2050, and it will be 41% in 2050 after the reform. Let's take another example. A person earning a double average salary now has this percentage of 41; without pension reform, it would be 59% in 2050, but it would be 62% after pension reform. The prognosis is valid for 40 years for full-time work, the first and second pillars combined. In this sense, progress on pension issues here in the Riigikogu, which you also asked about, is extremely important. I call on you to support the pension reform in any case.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U76	Thank you, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas! Thank you, Minister of Culture Indrek Saar! Thank you, too, to the Minister of Finance. I'm sorry he didn't have any questions. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U77	Honourable Riigikogu! 13th working week plenary session of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U78	Honourable Riigikogu! By decision of the President of the Republic, including 2 May, Janek Mägg has been appointed Minister of State Administration. Next, we will hear the oath of Minister of Public Administration, Janek Mägg. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U79	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Riigikogu! Prime Minister! In taking on the duties of a member of the Government of the Republic, I am aware that in this capacity I am responsible for the Republic of Estonia and my conscience. I solemnly swear to remain faithful to the constitutional order of the Republic of Estonia and to devote my strength to securing the well-being and future of the Estonian people. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U80	Honourable Riigikogu! Riina Sikkut has been appointed Minister of Health and Labour by decision of the President of the Republic, including on 2 May. Next, we will hear the oath of Minister of Health and Labour, Riina Sikkut. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U81	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Riigikogu! Prime Minister! In taking on the duties of a member of the Government of the Republic, I am aware that in this capacity I am responsible for the Republic of Estonia and my conscience. I solemnly swear to remain faithful to the constitutional order of the Republic of Estonia and to devote my strength to securing the well-being and future of the Estonian people. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U82	Now you can hand over drafts and inquiries. Please, Andres Herkel, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U83	Mr. Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the eight representatives of the Free Party, I have an inquiry to the Minister for Public Administration, Mr Janek Mägg. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] Indeed, since the adoption of the Administrative Reform Act, the fourth minister is already in this position and it is extremely appropriate to recall what the objectives of the administrative reform were: firstly, the increase in the capacity of local authorities, secondly, the improvement of the quality and availability of services, thirdly, cost savings. The subject of our inquiry is 'The possibilities of initial analysis of the implementation of the governance reform objectives'. We realize that a longer analysis will probably come when there is a slightly more lasting time distance, but there are many important things that I would like to get answers now. The first question is, when will this government analysis be completed? Secondly, we want to know about the increase in the investment capacity of local authorities after the administrative reform has been carried out. It is also a question of using European Union funds. We have raised a lot of questions about the fact that the wages of a very large number of local government leaders have risen exponentially since the administrative reform, which is why we find it particularly questionable to meet the objective of cost savings. We want to know whether the share of administrative and governance costs will decrease so that better services can be provided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U84	I have accepted an inquiry. Under the Home and Working Procedures Act, we will proceed with this. Incoming check, please! 92 members of the Riigikogu are present.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U85	The first item on our agenda is the third reading of the draft law amending the Aliens Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. Artur Talvik, please, on behalf of the Free Party Group!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U86	Ladies and gentlemen, The Free Party has decided to vote against the draft law 590. We are voting not so much against the entire bill, but against the methodology of how it has been done. Once again, we have shown diligence and German accuracy has transposed all the directives that we have been prescribed. It's too much. More independent thinking! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U87	There is no further wish for negotiations. Let's go to the end... It is. Mart Helme on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Easy, don't rush, may fall.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U88	Yeah, then we'll fall together. President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable hall! When there was a second reading of this bill, I also took the floor, and quite a few people spoke here. I must join the previous speaker in saying that this is a bill that is like a Brezhnev package. To a large extent, this draft can be supported, but it cannot support the part that is voluntary, but which we are taking over as if it were forced. This, as we have said, opens the back door to illegal immigration, human trafficking, the prostitution business, under the label of domestic workers and babysitters. We cannot support such a thing in any way. The state must act like a country. The country needs to know exactly who's going to enter here, under what circumstances, how long it's going to enter, what it's going to do here, whether it's going to pay taxes, etc. This part of the draft is, to put it mildly, suspicious, which is why we do not consider it possible to support it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U89	Jürgen Ligi, please, on behalf of the Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U90	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, We are not all in favour of this bill either. However, in order not to give the wrong impression that we actually share EKRE messages, I would point out that we do not very much like the creation of exceptions where taxation is a specific issue. After all, au pairing in itself is an international long-standing tradition; it is a different matter being dealt with, but I think we could have had this debate a little bit more substantively. The fact that one company simply does not have to pay taxes could have been discussed before we started asking about it in this Chamber, that why they, who is next, why the Estonian babysitters have to pay and why it is so that, for example, politicians in our cultural space would be in serious trouble, but if you bring someone from abroad in some special arrangement, it is regulated by law. I don't know exactly how mandatory this is for us. So we are skeptical, but not totally opposed, and we do not think that this is some sort of prostitution business and human trafficking that we are currently deciding on here. No, it's definitely not that bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U91	There is no further wish for negotiations, we are going to the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, can we go to the final vote? [[???Hääl saalist: 'Jaa!'???]] Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Aliens Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, 590. Please take a stand and vote. There are 65 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft act and 13 against, with 8 abstentions. The law amending the Law on Foreigners has been passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U92	First reading of Riigikogu's decision to amend the Riigikogu's decision 'Construction of the Special Committee on State Budget Control' submitted by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. Starter waitress Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U93	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to present draft 612, which says that our honourable new colleague, Enn Meri, will take up work on the special committee on budgetary control. Enn has been a very good entrepreneur, he has written and read hundreds, if not thousands of budgets during his life. He hasn't done the state budget yet, but none of us do it alone. They also have financial education. So please support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U94	Wait a minute! Honourable Riigikogu, who has questions for the initiator of the bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U95	Oh, okay. [[Laughing.]] There are no questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U96	The members of the Riigikogu have no questions for the initiator of the draft. Thank you. The rapporteur for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is Tiit Terik. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U97	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, You have before you a draft of the Riigikogu decision 'Construction of the Special Committee on State Budget Control'. Its content is to appoint Mr Enn Meri as a member of the Special Committee on State Budget Control in place of our former colleague, Mr Andres Ammas. The Commission discussed this issue on 16 April and took procedural decisions to put the matter on the plenary agenda on 2 May, to support this draft and to appoint the speaker to act as rapporteur for the Commission. All decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U98	Any questions for the Commission's waitress? No, it's not. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. We will conduct the final vote on the draft 612. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the amendment of the Riigikogu decision 'Construction of the Special Committee on the Control of State Budget' of the Riigikogu, initiated by the Group of the Estonian Free Party, draft 612. Please take a stand and vote. There were 78 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft as 612 decisions, no respondents or abstentions. The decision has been taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U99	Second reading of the draft law amending the law on the election of the European Parliament and other laws initiated by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, the Group of the Social Democratic Party and the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union. The rapporteur is Marko Pomerants, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U100	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, You have before you a draft law amending the European Parliament Election Act and other laws 400. This bill was already at first reading on 17 May last year and now the time has come when there is a willingness to move forward with this draft. Before I explain the content of the draft and the amendments to it, I am going to say in advance that the Commission's proposal is to interrupt the second reading of the draft, because there have been new changes and then you can look at them calmly. We are proposing a short deadline for tabling amendments, but I can say that all political groups have been represented in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and for three weeks there has been this knowledge that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is proposing this. So please don't grump about it. If anyone has any suggestions, they're all welcome. In terms of content, it is most useful to take apart or consider who, in the second reading, pages 2 and 3 of the explanatory memorandum, which outlines the situation that we have with the elections now and what this draft could look like as a law from the elections in 2021. So now for these possible changes. If you do the title of this law, you will see that four laws are being amended. We have our own law for each election. In addition to the European Parliament Election Act, the Riigikogu Election Act and the Local Government Council Election Act, it is also necessary to amend the referendum law, as changes affect this law. Why does the law enter into force in 2021? The whole logic of this draft is built on the basis that by then we will have an electronic list of voters. All the manual work that is now being done has led to the absence of voting before Sunday on Thursday, Friday and Saturday. This gap does not need to be kept in a situation where there is an electronic list of voters and there is no logistics of the votes in the envelopes along the country, where people have chosen, to the place where their 'home' constituency is located. The concept of 'their polling district' will disappear, and voters will not receive a electoral card in the future, which was primarily related to the location of this polling station. The simple logic will be that the voter can cast his vote anywhere on the territory of Estonia. Indeed, it can be provided electronically throughout the territory where the communication is available, so that his voice goes on the road, and on other occasions in places where the polling station is open, or in his own home, for example, when a box is brought home to him. In the election of the Riigikogu, this territory would be the whole electoral district. Southeast Estonians will not have to go to the Põlva Cultural House, where they are used to going, but can vote freely anywhere in Valgamaa or Võrumaa. With regard to the selection of local authorities, where local authorities are larger than they have been in the current elections, they can cast their vote anywhere on the territory of that local authority. So far, such a sacred concept has been that of the voting district's own premises and territory, and in the future it will become important for people to have voting spaces where local authorities have opened them in their territory. It may very well be that during this week, one day there will be a voting room at one end of the parish and the other at the other end of the parish. Certainly, on the right day of the election, the voting rooms will be open wherever they are decided to set up. As far as voting time is concerned, as has been said, the election period will not start again on Thursday of last week, but will start on Monday and last until Sunday evening. So seven days would be the election period. Advance voting would last from Monday to Saturday, including. The so-called envelope vote and the box vote will take place from Monday to Thursday. This is similar to the current situation where voting opportunities exist, for example, in county centres or in a few places. Election stations would be open on three days: Friday and Saturday 12 to 20 and election day 9 to 20. E-voting would last from 9 a.m. on Monday to 20 a.m. on Saturday night. There is no such possibility in the current law. On Sunday, you could cancel your e-voice with a paper note box at the station. Now the question is, when will the candidates or even the public know how the e-voices were divided? According to the legislative amendment, it would appear that on Sunday night at 8 p.m. when voting places are closed, the lists will first be checked against which vote will be retained, either by e-choice or by means of a paper note. So a few more minutes before eight o'clock in the evening, you can reveal your last will. This will certainly delay the time for reading e-voices a little bit, so at 10:00 this picture should be clear. A further change was made and the period of voting at home was extended. If you can vote at home now on election day, then you can vote on Friday and Saturday. The question in the Commission was how many voters are there at home. Their number has decreased with each election, but nearly 6,000 people voted at home in the last selection. The possibility of e-voting and the availability of ID-cards and certificates has created a situation where you do not always have to order the box home. In a very simplified way, most of the changes have now been introduced. Now I come to the discussion that was in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Mr Pevkur was concerned that one day of e-voting would be lost compared to the existing situation and two more days of voting at home. He wondered if these changes were justified. Perhaps I will mention another amendment. I do not dare to propose a final solution; it is now proposed in the draft. This concerns signing at the moment when a person goes to the voting room and receives a ballot paper from the electoral commission. In a situation where a person can vote 'broadly' across Estonia or in the electoral district, it is very impractical and pointless to make signatures where a person has signed his/her signature by hand to the effect that he/she has received his/her ballot paper. We in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs have proposed the solution that a person does not sign at all, but that a member of the electoral committee who issues this note makes a note of receipt of the ballot. Having been logged into the system, it makes signs that a particular citizen has received a ballot paper. The alternative would be to have some kind of device in use like when a courier brings you a package and you try to write a signature-like thing on that board. If you come to the conclusion now, you can say that the questions will eventually go back to what you can trust and who you can trust. When we talk about voting time at home, the question is that, after all, all these ugly things are happening there, the members of the polling station who go home with a box cannot be trusted, nor can they trust the members of the department who specifically issue this ballot paper at the station. I'm pretty sad about that kind of thinking. We could finally understand and should understand that the 100-year-old Republic of Estonia is the kind of place where the people of the polling district can, must and can be trusted. This should be the starting point. Now there are procedural decisions. We unanimously decided in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that the second reading of this draft could be on the plenary agenda today. That's what's happened. Our consensual proposal was to conclude the second reading. We had a proposal on the table to set the deadline for tabling amendments at 4 May at 4 p.m., which was also in favour. Helmut Hallemaa, Kalvi Kõik, Marko Pomerants, Mart Nutt, Mikhail Korb and Tiit Terik voted in favour, but there were also votes against (Arto Aas, Jüri Adams and Lauri Luik) and abstentions were Jaak Madison. We also agreed that I was the rapporteur for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and there were no disputes about that.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U101	I have a request. Repeat again, which was the Commission's decision on the fate of the draft. Will the second reading stop or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U102	Propose a second reading of the draft. The Commission's decision was consensual.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U103	Thank you very much. Questions for the Commission rapporteur. Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U104	Thank you. Good waitress! First of all, I will say right away that I do not consider it quite normal that it is 2 May today, but that the deadline for tabling amendments is 4 May. There could still be a normal time, there is no reason to set such a short deadline. The Reform Party will certainly support the introduction of electronic electoral lists and more flexible electoral models. That's the right direction. However, we still fail to understand why the IRL and the Social Democrats agree with the Centre Party's policy of reducing the possibilities for electronic selection and, at the same time, extending the voting time at home. We know that people are voting more and more electronically, there are not many voters at home, and in political monopolistic cities such as Tallinn, voting at home is quite risky. Could you explain the reasons why it is necessary to shorten the time for electronic selection?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U105	Thanks! Electronic voting time would decrease by one day compared to today. This means that there will be six days in a row for this vote. I'll bring the parallel. I'm thinking about my father-in-law in Võrumaa, who is 82 years old and who needs to be able to make his decisions once a week in ten minutes. Anyone who wants to participate in e-voting will have that opportunity within six days. If he doesn't do it in any way, he'll still have the chance to vote on the seventh day. Seven days is enough. As far as the extension of voting time at home is concerned, indeed, there is no correct and even response, so and so will be. The Commission has seen this as an additional opportunity for people who do not use e-tools and who do not move themselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U106	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U107	Good manager! Good waitress! We all know that this bill is actually born with the Central Party idea of losing e-choice. Now there's this kind of mush and cabbage, and it's time to take a break. But my question is, why are you giving up your signature? Is it so that old people's homes and small polling stations can do what they need to do in the evening? Why are you so eager to support the possibility that you no longer have to sign?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U108	Thanks! We live in an overall climate of mutual distrust. Some say there's thugs, others say there's thugs, and the thugs are in the third place. It must be assumed that the people who work in the electoral commission and who take this box to a nursing home, for example, are honest. I think that in the current situation, where everyone is watching over each other, it should be ensured that the right person is voting. Can we, by law, guarantee such a world that no vote will ever fall into a box independently of the will of a potential electorate? Well, I can't necessarily. But that signature on that paper obviously doesn't increase that confidence either. In the end, we travel around Estonia in circles with some forms of signature, and no one goes into them in particular. You can always find out what's on it, but let's all try to be decent people, not go along with such actions, and trust the current system.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U109	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U110	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable waitress! From the explanatory memorandum to the draft law, you hinted that it was worth reading, I read a sentence that I really ask you to explain: 'The amendment will stop voting on a ship carrying the flag of Estonia in international or foreign waters. ' Does this mean that Estonian sailors, whose country has now left to float on the sea like this, will lose the right to vote? What are they reorganizing?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U111	Sailors can also use e-voting opportunities.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U112	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U113	Thank you. Mr. Pomerants, no one here has called each other a criminal.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U114	I did.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U115	However, I very much agree with the child's mouth, Peter, who confessed to what will be done with this e-voting. The Centre Party wanted to ban it and achieved that it would be banned for one day. But the other side of the case is voting at home using a box that is the most unsafe. It was still intended to ban e-votes because of insecurity. Voting at home is the most unsafe, especially in a situation where the Prime Minister and Chairman of the Tallinn Council of the Centre Party Jüri Ratas personally go through their homes, push their hands, and after this, the Tallinn Council will most likely send this box right there. What exactly is the reason that e-votes are qualified to be too unsafe, but caste voting is something more to be created? How would you describe this contradiction?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U116	No, not him. Is it safe? The reason for keeping free of e-votes for the last three days is that the e-vote is compromised and attackable, so there must be an opportunity to make improvements on the last day. How thoughtful is the decision to add three days in the e-vote technically?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U117	Thanks! I think it's very easy to describe. Like I said, criminals can be in any camp, so there's distrust of one system or another in different camps. Some people say that the whole problem lies in voting at home, and others say that the whole problem is that the e-vote can go six days in a row. Both methods of voting may include how to say that a person's will is not necessarily reflected. The safest way is to come old-fashioned, clean clothes on, vote Sunday.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U118	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U119	Thank you, good Chairman. Mr. Pomerants! My question goes on from the same place. I would like to know what you think or how you feel or what the outcome of the Commission's debate was. Do you consider e-choice to be a safe way to vote? If so, why is the choice made to shorten this period rather than to extend it? This is the most convenient and most effective way of increasing electoral activity.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U120	Thanks! There was no vote on this particular issue in the Commission. If you ask for my personal opinion, I consider e-voting to be safe, I will use this method myself. As regards this so-called length, I will stick to my previous reply that six days a week in a row should be sufficient time for a citizen of electoral law to be given his or her decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U121	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U122	Good manager! Good waitress! To the question of whether this would increase security in retirement homes or in small polls just before the election ended, I still did not get an answer. But why do you call this draft a draft law on the election of the European Parliament and the amendment of other laws? One could have said more simply: the draft law amending electoral laws. For some reason, you have set the top of the European Parliament. Could have been the Riigikogu Election, Local Government Election and European Parliament Election Act or in some other order. Why the lack of clarity?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U123	I'm improvising. The law on the election of the European Parliament is alphabetically ahead of these other laws. Jüri Adams also raised the question in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that it is time for one electoral law in Estonia at all. Unfortunately, that time has not yet arrived. In this sense, it has not come to pass that we simply do not have such a law and that is why, until there is no other situation, we have to go through these four laws for so long, and precisely in that order. So accept it. What matters is the content of the draft. The amendments are welcome and it is important for people to understand what their options are.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U124	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable waitress! I do not think that shortening the e-voting period is a good idea either, but I think that the electorate will be accompanied by a reform of the "election stations" here, i.e. in future it will be possible to go according to its choice to any department in the respective territory. Please state in this connection whether this will lead to any significant spatial changes. If so far, for example, a school house has been the place of traditional selection, is it now a shopping centre or a place where people are going more anyway? What is the financial consequences of this reform of the location of the polling stations for the country?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U126	Thanks for the question! In the first half of the answer, although the electoral card and the link with the particular polling station that is currently in place will disappear, the electoral committee will certainly have to continue to inform people about their options. If these opportunities are to expand, the voter must, in any case, know about this. In the Commission, we reached the understanding in the debate with the electoral service that if one day there is a voting space, for example, within this week at some point where it is no longer on the next day, then the minimum that must be taken into account is the opening time. If it's 12 to 20, it should be open 12 to 20 on that day, no matter where it is. Indeed, if there are no more polling stations and there is a voting space, it can also be a joke-joke! A state bus or election bus, where privacy is guaranteed, where the electoral commission can work and where communication facilities are guaranteed to be able to interact with the electronic list. As far as costs are concerned, both in the election of the European Parliament and in the election of the Riigikogu, the Riigikogu Election Committee is, in fact, the state budget which ensures that expenditure is covered. As regards the selection of local government councils, these costs are covered by the local government. We'll see what the optimal system is. I do not know, but I imagine that, in a situation where these polling stations have been drawn together over time and in the context of the various elections, the voting rooms will be chosen, first and foremost, the places where they have traditionally been.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U127	Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U128	Thank you, Chairman. Good waitress, chairman of the committee! I do not know whether this concern about reducing e-choice opportunities is now so well founded. My question, however, is that we actually combine all e-things, pre-votes and e-votes, and actually make it much easier for the voter to remember the days. In the current system, even those people who work politically every day find it very difficult to remember these things. Every choice can be safe, as shown by the experience of other countries, and this should be the case in Estonia. But I'll ask you another question. You're the one who brought the idea of signing this technical device to the committee. Then why don't you protect it now?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U129	Yeah, I just brought this idea as an alternative to a paper list so it could be a technical solution. Personally, I still think that what we're producing them for... I don't know, let's call them signatures then, but I don't think they have much value in increasing their credibility. This could be a modern alternative to this paper list in order to maintain this signature for some period in an electronic system. But I think I should say no to that signature. I believe those two or three people, whoever they are, who are in the polling station the minute I walk in. It will be right that the right person gets the ballot paper. We don't have to worry too much about that.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U130	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U131	Thank you. Mr. Pomerants! Once again, the question is not that some say that some are criminals, and others say that others are criminals. You've said that twice in a row. No, that's not the question. It is about voting methods, allowing time for their use and considerations, completely neutral considerations. My second question is about e-voting over the last three days. I've been talking to the experts, and they've been telling me... In particular, I have spoken to one key person. I'm sorry I'm here now...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U132	You mean Need Martens anyway.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U133	Question clear, time's up.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U134	Thanks! I get the question. When we prepare this draft, we have been guided by the advice and expertise of the national electoral service on the technical side of the matter. At least we have not had a debate in the Commission on whether it is credible. We have everything in the protocol, we have long, proper protocols. This question of credibility was not at issue. The only thing we can say about this is that this is a place of policy-making, as Priit Vinkel said in the Commission, is the extension of voting at home to three days. That's the thing about taste, in a very simple way, someone says it doesn't make sense, someone says it can be accepted. At the end of the adoption of the law, it will be clear to what extent this voting at home will remain in place or whether there will be proposals for extending e-voting so that it will start on Sunday. But in my opinion, it makes sense if pre-voting and e-voting are exactly the same-length period, the seventh day, or election day, in addition. Well, for the one person they want to choose, that decision must be made. I don't think it's that complicated. There is a well-known concern in this hall that a crook is made in one place or a crook is made in another. I understand, Jürgen Ligi, that this is not the main thing in this debate, but I want to say that the main problem is not whether someone gets one vote or two more votes somewhere, the main problem is that you have a lot of votes. For that, all candidates must work on their own.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U135	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U136	Thank you. As Peeter Ernits said, the whole bill has indeed grown out of the Centre Party's desire to abolish electronic voting. It seems to me that the IRL and the Social Democrats are currently giving a score to the Centre Party. The Centre Party doesn't need this victory, they have a rating, there are voices, everything's fine, faces full of laughter. You are in a worse position, and I do not think your constituents understand this step either. I just have a suggestion not to go along with it. Believe me, the government won't fall. The Centre Party needs to keep this government together at whatever cost, and this bill is not wrong. What I am asking is whether you really do not see the risk of extending the voting time at home. Tallinn City Government and the municipalities of Ida-Virumaa are all politicised, party members are in each structural unit and are paid an extra fee for being part of the party. If these people start passing by three times as many homes as they have so far, there is a certain risk.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U137	Thanks! The Act enters into force in 2021. You have time, you have a strong new leader, win the elections and walk the homes of Tallinn yourself.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U138	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U139	Thank you, good Chairman. Good waitress! Peeter Ernits said nicely in this hall that this bill bears the seal of victory for the Centre Party, they managed to go on the e-choice and shorten the time. I have a question from another area. The Centre Party has promised or is planning to compromise on citizenship in the electoral laws so that non-citizens can choose parliament in Estonia. Do you defend the electoral laws against these changes as firmly as you do with e-choice?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U140	Thanks! Of course, let's look at the political rhetoric of the way I say, the room for interpretation. You say that if there are six days left for e-choice, it will equal the loss of e-voting and the big score of the Central Party. I say the Centre Party's plan was to eliminate e-choice, but e-choice is still possible for six days. So, please, what are you gonna do with it? As far as citizenship is concerned, it has not been discussed. I, as an IRL politician, will certainly stand for this not to happen. A little more remark on the question of Arto Asa, so don't worry about the Centre Party, because they have a lot of votes, but IRL doesn't have enough at the moment. Our voters are aware and can do it in six days.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U141	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U142	Thank you. I wanted to ask you that this voting period at home is three times longer. Had the statistics proved that the people who actually needed to vote at home had missed this opportunity? Or what was the motive?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U143	If you look at this bill in all its perfection, you will see that people have expanded opportunities to participate in the selection at all. I admit one point that it is now possible to participate in e-voting in six instead of seven days. But geographically, this opportunity has widened, so you can vote practically where you are during this election week. I read this amendment, which concerns voting at home, to the effect that voting opportunities have also improved for people who cannot move.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U144	Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U145	Thank you, Chairman. Good waitress! I also do not see where this concerns the e-vote. But I ask whether it is possible to consider, or whether it was under consideration, that the period of preliminary and e-voting would really be eight days rather than six days. The second question is still about voting at home. Is it not very important that we also increase the opportunities for these people to take part in elections, in fact, rather than statistically? What is statistics, it is known: there is a small lie, a large lie and statistics. We have a statistically 90-, 95- and 100-year-old vote 100% electronically, which doesn't make any sense. Do these opportunities in this law improve the opportunities of all voters in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U146	Thanks! I believe in the old people of Estonia. Hundreds of people are already very tragedy, and why can't they vote electronically? My husband's Aunt Salme is not 100 years old, she's only 92 years old, but she's not skipping any political debate, and she has an opinion on everything we're doing here or what's being done in the government. So don't underestimate these people. I really think the week is the optimal time. Two weeks would be, look, even better. The election period would last two weeks and we would start the campaign early in spring to be ready for next spring. There is no absolute truth here. A specific week, if we vote so that it will be, then that will be it and that will be it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U147	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U148	Thank you. Don't you think it's basically a contradiction here that the campaign is on, but they're already voting? We know it's forbidden to campaign on the real election day, but now this is the situation. My whole life, I thought there was such a legislative contradiction.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U149	Thanks! In this respect, we have met you: from last Thursday we have moved on Monday next week.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U150	The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions for the rapporteur, but the manager does, because I ask for advice and help on how to fulfil my obligations under the law in the best way possible. The Commission has made an exceptionally reasonable decision to interrupt the second reading, as so many changes have been made. In the case of interruption, the deadline for tabling amendments shall be 10 days. If the Commission agrees with the President that there is a shorter deadline, then we agree, but so far no one has explained the reason for this haste. The Act enters into force in 2021. Perhaps you will explain to both the President and the entire Chamber why the deadline for submitting amendments is two days?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U151	Thanks! I think I've already seen quite a lot in my life, but really, such a nuance that this should be agreed with the manager...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U152	The President shall set a time limit.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U153	Yeah, I get it. I would certainly have taken advantage of this opportunity. But as far as its extraordinaryness or non-extraordinaryness is concerned, as I said, I have also used this practice, under the leadership of other committees, where there has been the opportunity to work, that I, as an honest person, inform all parties in advance of what is planned. I would like to say that all political parties are represented in the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu. Before we started discussing this on 10 April, I did not know whether this plan would be approved by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, but on 10 April it was known that the plan was to interrupt the second reading of the draft, and these amendments have been public since then. So everyone who has wanted to react has actually had time for it. If nobody wants to, there's nothing I can do. However, in order to reach the end of one process in the Riigikogu, which has already matured here for a year, this spring is a nice one. I will involve all parties who believe that they should be involved in this new situation. By me, still...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U154	The draft will enter into force in 2021.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U155	I got that, yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U156	Thanks to the waitress! I'm opening negotiations. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U157	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, This bill is, of course, a political struggle, and so far no one has been able to prove that it is necessary. We know, of course, that the Central Party's great goal has been to compromise the e-election and, if possible, to eliminate it, to give the impression that it is somehow tilting or even falsifying the result of the election. That's how the Centre Party campaigned. When the coalition was formed, poor Marko Pomerants among others, gave in to some compromise and decided that something would be done with this e-vote. Well, they do now. Lucky you don't ban e-election, but we still think it's foolish to shorten that time by one day. If you want to harmonise these periods, I think I could easily extend the time of the e-vote, which would just give a statistically positive result. Statistics are not wrong, big wrong, and what was the third thing, statistics are science, and statistics are numbers that also value democracy. The more voters, the better. The more comfortable the vote, the more voters. That is why the e-vote has been a very important asset to Estonian society; it has prevented the decline in voting participation, especially among young people. We want to protect it. We don't want this Centre Party bullshit to be reflected in this bill. After all, Peter Ernits confessed that there was no point in this bill but to reduce the impact of the e-vote. We think this is a bad idea. It is amazing that another thing happens during this harmonisation. Those last three e-voting days will be taken away, seemingly the opposite extension of the e-vote. But I have spoken, as I mentioned, to an e-vote expert who said that he would not do so, because these last three days are necessary to correct errors. There is no room for correcting errors in the paper vote and in the box vote or in the home vote. The e-vote is not so technically unsafe compared to the other voting methods, on the contrary, rather safer, but more technologically attackable and more compromised. If you go to the servers or go to the databases, you can influence one, the other, and the third vote. However, in the case of an e-vote, at least there is a possibility that if this happens a few days before, the voter will be able to give his or her vote again if he or she has been affected and, as a result of the attack, it will be possible to cancel the vote at all and replace it by a paper vote on Sunday. That's the point. By abolishing this, the e-vote will be made politically intimidating. It is easy to say that something happened, although nothing happened in terms of results, to take away the possibility of correcting errors and compromise the whole vote. Unfortunately, Marko Pomerants did not answer the question whether it had been considered. A serious expert has told me that no, don't change it, this proposal is too crude, there are risks. It seems that what has been said so far about these last three days is still valid. So one of our proposals is for the Commission to discuss these over the last three days. Secondly, we think that extending the caste vote (I mean bringing the box home) is foolish. This is the most influential method of voting at all. And then you should think about whether this bill is even needed. We haven't found the rational point we're wasting time here. There is no need for this draft to compromise only the e-vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U158	Ladies and gentlemen, since we are in the negotiating zone and the name really did sound, Marko Pomerants, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U159	Thanks! I am not going to fight Jürgen Ligi, but I simply recall that on 10 April, when we had this draft for the first time in the debate, Priit Vinkel, the head of the state electoral service, Arne Koitmäe, and advisers Mihkel Pilving and Helin Leichter were among the invited. The problem raised by Jürgen was neither reflected in this form nor brought to the attention of the Commission. Certainly, if something terrible happens in a country when the elections are attacked, the elections can be cancelled and moved on. So this risk was not highlighted by the electoral service in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U160	Let's continue the negotiations. George Adams.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U161	Mr President of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! So what are we dealing with? Here we are dealing with the summation of two texts from a completely different source. The original draft was the meeting of the Centre Party to those of its own members whose wish was that there would be no electronic voting in Estonia, and who had for years created a figure for the Estonian public that electronic voting was a devil. That was the original idea of the bill. Even now, in this area, those who do not like electronic voting say that we are not changing much here, at least we will not change anything to the 2019 elections. Possible changes in the field of electronic voting are currently planned for local elections by 2021, but this is not yet known if it will happen at all. It is possible that the next Riigikogu will change the same law, so it is not so important at the moment. It's not urgent either. The majority of the text that has come from the electoral service of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu is faster. There are now 33 pages of text. It's pretty hard to see what it's for, and I don't think anyone reads it very thoroughly. In Estonia, the general area of the elections is divided into three main sub-areas. First, the possibilities and rules for setting up candidates. In this area, Estonia has the most serious problems. Secondly, here too, the Free Party has taken initiatives, the question of whether and how to clarify or change the rules on the allocation of mandates. There are problems in this area, but they are not as big as in the first area. The third area where the least problems lie is how the vote and the counting of votes take place technically. The main thing about this big package is that until now there is still such a concept as the polling district in Estonia. Once in the pre-Internet era, this was the only place where a person could vote, in the present era of electronic voting, it has become largely anachronism. The main idea of the electoral service is that the polling stations, as such, would disappear instead, which means that, first of all, every person can vote in his own constituency anywhere where the polling point has been opened. I think this is a perfectly sensible approach, and there is nothing against it. It makes sense to move on from here. Perhaps one day it will take place so that every person in Estonia can vote anywhere, even outside their constituency, in every election. This idea is, by the way, somewhat contrary to the idea of limiting the volume of electronic voting. But maybe that's the future. Let's look at this bill. There are currently four Estonian electoral laws. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U162	Please! Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U163	It can be said that they certainly have the face of one of our senior state officials, namely Alo Heinsalu, who was the main author of these laws for more than ten years. They stand out first by the fact that there are few laws in Estonia that have been written so long and in detail, there is hardly any detail whatsoever that would not have been recorded in the law. This is definitely not a good law-writing style. If there was ever a chance to rewrite these laws, I would recommend that most of these non-essential details be expelled from the law and left in the organizational rules. The situation now is that each of these four laws is 25.30 pages long, which means that the total mass of text is between 100 and 150 pages. Maybe there's a future minister of justice sitting in this hall right now. He could put officials to work to stop this kind of shit. It would make sense if Estonia had one large electoral code, because all of these four laws fall by 85 to 90% between letter and comma-comma. It would be reasonable for there to be a general part and the differences between all four choices to be made separately. So that's where we could get out. There was, in the meantime, a question which is behind the short deadline for tabling amendments. Neither did I in the Commission. I had this assumption that it would have something to do with the state budget process. I understood that the practical content of this amendment is the hiring of a number of IT specialists who, for a certain amount of money, ensure the transition to electronic voting lists. Apparently, it's money, I think it was EUR 400000, to get into next year's budget. I understood the members of the government coalition that they want the law to be passed at all costs before going on summer break. If I'm wrong with this assumption, I'm sorry, but I didn't know a more reasonable explanation for this six-to-seven-day nonsense when two years have gone by completely calmly.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U164	Arto Aas, a line or a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U165	Speaking in a position.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U166	Speaking from the floor, probably about the content of the speech that has just been made. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U167	No, I have my own speech.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U168	Oh, then we'll come back to the fact that the word is received by Mart Helme. Then the word will be given to Arto Aas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U169	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, In fact, what I meant throughout this point was largely marked by the previous speaker. We need a thorough review of our electoral laws and everything that concerns them. Today, for a somewhat understandable, somewhat incomprehensible reason, there is a dispute about whether e-choice is a good idea or not. From this point of view, I would say that I do not understand this bill at all. This bill changes the deadlines a little, but it does not essentially solve any issues, it does not raise the question of whether any electoral procedures should be changed as a whole and whether we should change the whole electoral philosophy in the e-age. I would like to point out to you that the next item is the cybersecurity law. It has been through the National Defence Commission, and I dare to recommend that this bill be dealt with thoroughly, because the easiest way to wage a war today is by electronic means. After all, we have experience that a country with a very high profile has been accused of interfering with the American presidential elections, for example, has been accused of interfering with the French presidential elections, and so on. In fact, this is also an example of the fact that e-choice should be subject to much more detailed screening than is the case under this draft. I'm not calling for an e-election to be lost, on the contrary. I call for e-choice procedures and the whole philosophy of e-choice to be considered from a new and, as I say, a more complete perspective. Once again, if anyone thinks that some superpowers do not have the ability to run our e-elections together or otherwise squirt away, that is a very naive opinion. The countries that have this capacity are enough and some of them are certainly not the most friendly countries in Estonia. So the content of my speech is actually that we are not arguing about the details. I support the proposal to interrupt reading this draft and, in principle, I raise the question that electoral procedures and the whole philosophy of elections must be re-examined. What can be done? It has been a long time since the beginning of the 1990s, and the world around us has changed to the unknown, including the e-world, which has inevitably invaded the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U170	Arto Aas, speaking from the remote.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U171	It seemed that the speech from the place was too confusing, so I would come to the remote. I would like to reiterate that it is certainly reasonable to support the list of electronic voters. It's long awaited, it's the right direction. It is probably not a very political issue either, rather a technical issue and a question of money. This package of amendments would certainly be supported by the Reform Party. However, we continue to oppose this ideology and the direction that we are shortening the time for pre-election and electronic selection. Let me remind you that this period is not reduced by one day, but by three days, in fact by four days. If, now, pre-election and e-voting are starting a week earlier on Thursday, then now all this is happening in the last week. This is an important change. We have wanted the turnout to increase and people to have more opportunities to participate, either by voting in precincts or electronically, but now we are swimming against the tide. People have trusted in electronic voting, it is secure, it invests a lot of time and money, and cryptography is completely world-class. So the direction to reduce this time is in no way justified. Politics, as you know, is also the art of signs, and this mark is very bad. In the last year-two, nothing new and exciting has been born in Estonia's e-governance. If we are being watched in the wide world, they will now see that we are doing something reactionary; we will not seek new opportunities; we will instead move towards a traditional, very archaic home. What is it these days? Thirdly, I would like to protest against the deadline for tabling amendments. It's not justified at all that it's two days. Those arguments that the Commission had known something a long time ago are not criminal. There is good lawmaking practice in the Riigikogu, there are certain procedures that should be followed. It is very important what we do here, and it is very important how we do it. Just because there were things in the Commission that had been known before, or the procedure has been delayed, does not mean that the ordinary rules should be broken in this large Chamber. So this normal time of amendment, as laid down by law and by the Rules of Procedure, should certainly be in place for such an important draft. I hope that the President of the sitting of the Riigikogu will exercise his right and respect the large hall by the fact that the two-day deadline for tabling amendments, which was pushed out by the majority of the committee, cannot be supported in this large Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U172	Speaking in a position. Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U173	Since my name was named five times at least, maybe I could talk five times. But I would point out that it was said that I do not understand why such a bill is here. I get it. This is one of the two drafts that actually aimed at something else. The purpose of this draft was to abolish e-choice and the second draft, which will come soon, to directly elect the President. With the first bill, we're taking a break right now. On the second draft, I recall the words of a good colleague, Eiki Nestor, that if we start to directly elect the President, we will get our Erdogan, the Turkish Sultan, and the result is that Ruhnu will have two voters, as many as hundreds of times larger municipalities. So it's actually very simple: you have to use the drinks clean, but you don't mix beer and vodka and maybe more cognac. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U174	There are no more requests to speak, I will close the negotiations. One amendment to the draft 400 has been tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the decision of the commission is to take full account of it. The amendments tabled have been examined. The proposal of the commission is to interrupt the second reading of the draft 400. Second reading aborted. The point that sounded in at least two of the speeches in the negotiations reached the President of today's sitting adequately, and I therefore set the deadline for the submission of 400 amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 9 May.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U175	Fourth item: Second reading of draft law 597 on cyber security initiated by the Government of the Republic. Mr Kerdi, Member of the National Defence Commission, would you like to present a speech chair?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U176	Ladies and gentlemen, the chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The Government of the Republic initiated the draft on 5 March and its first reading was completed on 21 March. The draft amendments were tabled by 5.15 p.m. on 4 April. The National Defence Committee discussed the proposals and presented them as amended, together with its other amendments. No amendments were tabled outside the deadline of the commission and the draft was discussed by the National Defence Commission with representatives of stakeholders on 9, 10 and 12 April. For more information on the amendments and their justifications, see the second-reading explanatory memorandum attached to the draft, and I now highlight the most important of them. The draft did not extend to general medical practitioners and Estonian National Broadcasting, but after coordination between ministries, they are mentioned in the draft. Following discussions at its meetings, the National Defence Committee decided, with the agreement of the initiator of the draft and with representatives of the ministries of government, to amend the draft, which is on the list of amendments. In order for the state to be able to require the private sector to have a high level of security for these information systems, it is first necessary to make the public sector's own systems secure. It is therefore essential that the requirements of the Cyber Security Act apply to family doctors and Estonian National Broadcasting Systems. For family doctors, it is necessary to harmonise the security requirements for the information systems they use, for example to prevent personal data leaks or data encryption during ransom attacks. The task of the ERR shall be, inter alia, to ensure the operational transmission of adequate information, including in situations of danger to the population or statehood, and in order to ensure the continuity and continuity of the operation of national broadcasting, both on radio, television and electronic media. The cost of the amendment lies in the resources needed to develop the systems and a transitional period is foreseen for the money needed to implement the changes. In addition to the downgraded amendments, the Commission also made linguistic clarifications on the recommendation of the language editor in the draft. The representative of the initiator of the draft act supported them. I recall that the draft will transpose the European Network and Information Security Directive. Internally, security measures and cyber incident reporting requirements are introduced for essential service and digital service providers. The role of the National Information System Authority as a national supervisory authority in coordinating cyber security and organising cross-border cooperation is also specified. The draft provides a legal basis for effective prevention and problem-solving in the fight against cyber threats and allows the development of a cyber justice space that meets Estonia's needs and not just the minimum requirements resulting from the European Union Directive. In addition, the draft will provide an opportunity to develop the area in the future. It is therefore a law that establishes roads and sets goals. The procedural decisions were as follows: At its meeting on 12 April 2018, the National Defence Committee decided to submit a draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 2 May. At its meeting on 19 April, the Commission approved the text of the draft second reading, the list of amendments and the explanatory memorandum. At the above-mentioned meeting, the Commission also decided to propose that the Riigikogu conclude the second reading of the draft. All decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U177	The first question to the rapporteur is put by Krista Aru. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U178	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! The presentation and inclusion of the ERR in the draft law is very reasonable, as the public information field must be covered. I understand that the date of entry into force of 1 January 2022 laid down in the application clause has been chosen precisely to give ERR time to develop all systems. Did the Commission also mention the amount of money involved in the cost of improving the system to the ERR?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U179	Yes, the financial volume of the undertaking was also mentioned in the Commission. It is about EUR 6 million, but it would be planned to be used in the coming years. The thing is, they have to build a new house and build new systems there. There's no point in starting to rebuild the old house right now. Investments would be introduced in a new house and in a new environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U180	Arto Aas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U181	Thank you. Honourable waitress! In itself, it is very positive that family medicine centres are also involved in this law. They are undoubtedly one of the weakest links in our e-governance and e-health systems. In the past, this change has been postponed because there has been no money and there has not been a good coordination model for helping family medicine centres to achieve greater cybersecurity. I'm gonna ask you how this financial side gets covered now. Is it up to the family doctor centers themselves, with the help of some kind of health insurance fund or the Ministry of Social Affairs, or is it primarily a matter of coordination that any family doctor center that delivers sensitive health data really gets on top of adequate IT protection?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U182	Thank you for your question. When we had a very long and thorough discussion of the ERR, the Ministry of Social Affairs met with the family doctor centers. And the Ministry of Social Affairs claims that more than a financial issue is an organisational issue. They see no major obstacles, rather it is an organisational issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U183	Honourable waitress! No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. That's not what you want. There are eight amendments to the draft 597 and we will examine them together. Everything is presented by the National Defence Committee and, in advance, let it be said that they have all been fully taken into account. However, one by one: Amendment 1, No 2, No 3, No 4, No 5, No 6, No 7. The eighth amendment is also proposed by the Committee on National Defence, the decision of the lead committee: take full account. The amendments to draft law 597 have been examined. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of the draft. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U184	The fifth item is the second reading of the draft measure law 566 initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Kristen Michal, member of the Economic Commission for the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U185	Good manager! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Between the first and second readings, the Committee on Economic Affairs met to discuss the various proposals for improvement at two meetings. Improvements came from outside the house. One came from an association of technical overseers and was considered. The second proposal came from the Ministry of Economic Affairs which initiated the draft, and this was also taken into account. And the third was born as a result of the combined effect of these two proposals, which was also taken into account. This concerns the time limits for the entry into force of the law. One of the amendments is a technical amendment. There was one point misspelled in the previous law, and it had to be corrected. That is why we have supplemented the draft with Section 31 amending the Road Transport Act. We did so in the light of the principle of minimality: that the measure law amends as little as possible other laws. For this reason, the Committee on Economic Affairs has also launched a separate draft. The second amendment follows the proposal of the Estonian Association of Technologists. The aim is to reduce duplication of activity and bureaucracy, and so it was approved by the Commission and the initiator, the Ministry of Economic Affairs. The procedural decisions were as follows: to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 2 May 2018, to propose the termination of the second reading and to send the draft to the third reading when the second one is closed by 9 May. Then a final vote could also be taken. All decisions were taken by consensus. Please support the bill! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U186	Any questions for the waitress? There aren't any. Thanks to the waitress! I'm opening negotiations. I'm closing the negotiations. Three amendments have been tabled for draft 566; we will examine them together. All three amendments have been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs, and the decision of the commission is to take them all fully into account. The first amendment, the second, the third. The amendments to the draft proposal 566 have been examined. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 566. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U187	Sixth item: Second reading of the Act on bar Associations initiated by the Government of the Republic, the Law on Courts, the Law on Law Enforcement and the Law on the Amendment of Other Laws 583. Raivo Aeg, Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, will be the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U188	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the preparation of the draft law 583 for second reading at two meetings, on 16 April and 17 April. Nine amendments were examined at the meeting on 16 April. The first amendment concerned the amendment of the Bar Act, which was tabled by the Ministry of Justice. In particular, it was proposed to amend § 1 (6) of the draft, which, as I said, concerns the Bar Act, in particular § 26 31 and 32. The aim is to give the Board of Directors of the Bar Association a greater right to decide on the admission of persons who have not worked in the positions listed in the Act, but for whom the Board of Directors of the Bar Association is firmly convinced that their professional experience, knowledge and personal characteristics enable them to work as sworn advocates. This amendment was supported by the lead committee. The Chamber of Law Enforcement and Bankruptcy Administrators proposed to add a further addition to the above amendment concerning § 26 31 of the Bar Act. Its content was that the insolvency administrators, who have been acting as insolvency administrator for five years and have obtained at least a nationally recognised master's degree in the field of study or a corresponding qualification within the meaning of § 28 (22) of the Education Act of the Republic of Estonia, could work as sworn advocates. The panel did not approve the proposal by the bailiffs and the Chamber of Bankruptcy Administrators. The second amendment was tabled by the Supreme Court. The proposal of the Supreme Court contained nine points. The first three concerned the amendments to §81 (3), (4) and (5) of the Courts Act. These are the conditions and procedures for the completion of the judge's security clearance when the judges request access to NATO and EU classified information. Access to national classified information in Estonia is available to judges due to their position, as they undergo security checks before taking up their duties. Further: Paragraph 38 (3) (5) of the Courts Act was requested to be supplemented. The content of the case is that the members of the panel will be elected by the General Assembly of the Supreme Court. In accordance with the current procedure, they were elected by the assembly of judges. § 58 is also intended to be amended, its content being that a judge may be transferred to the state service at his request and with the agreement of the President of the Court without a contest. This section also regulates the return from the state service to the office of judge and the dismissal of a judge unless, under certain conditions, they are applied to them. The relevant terms and conditions are stated in this section. Paragraph 581 (1) is also amended. It relates to the suspension of the mandate and service of a judge when a judge is elected or appointed to the office of a judge of an international judicial institution or to an equivalent position, as well as to his participation as an expert in an international civilian mission. The next item is the amendment of § 69 (2). It contains a list of those who can be a member of the panel. Next, the following point: Paragraph 76 is added to paragraph 6. It provides that a judge who carries out duties in an international institution or who participates in an international cooperation programme as an expert is entitled to remuneration. The Steering Committee supported these proposals by consensus. The third amendment was received from the Ministry of Justice. It is proposed that § 3 of the draft law on the amendment of the Law on bailiffs should be supplemented with § 10.14. The tenth item establishes the basic fee for the bailiff. If the bailiff has submitted an order for the freezing of electronic assets to the credit institution, the principal fee proposed by the bailiff is EUR 22 instead of the current EUR 16. Paragraph 11 and 12 of the same paragraph establish a specific price list: the basic fees and advance fees of bailiffs are dependent on the amount to be recovered. There are two tables in the draft. The difference is simply that point 11 should enter into force immediately with the entry into force of the Act, item 12 only on 1 January 2019. The fact that these long tables have been introduced as an amendment to the law follows from this. The amendment is due to the judgment of the Supreme Court of 25 January 2018 whereby the General Assembly of the Supreme Court declared § 35 (2) and (3) of the Law of bailiffs to be incompatible with the Constitution. The substance of the case is that due to the Supreme Court's judgment, cross-subsidisation needs to be reduced and the charges for the collection of current cheaper claims increased. The fees of bailiffs proposed by the amendments have been calculated on the basis of the actual cost of meeting the requirement, and cross-subsidisation has been significantly reduced. One amendment concerned the law on bailiffs. It was presented by the Chamber of bailiffs and Bankruptcy Administrators, but during the discussion of the proposal it decided to withdraw its proposal. So the commission didn't start it. Amendment 7 is intended to supplement § 12 of the draft, concerning the amendment of the Code of Enforcement Procedure by adding a new point 2. This is a proposal put forward by the Ministry of Justice. We're talking about how a performer can arrest a debtor's salary. Paragraph 132 (12) of the Code of Enforcement Procedure allows the trustee to seize the debtor's minimum wage and its lower income up to 20% per month if the debtor's other assets are insufficient to satisfy creditors' claims. In doing so, the minimum wage must first be deducted from the minimum wage and only then can a 20% figure be calculated, which may be taken away from the debtor. It should be specifically pointed out that this regulation would still not apply to survivors, as they remain subject to the current § 132 (11) of the Code of Enforcement Procedure. Paragraph 13 gives the formula for calculating the minimum amount to be preserved when the debtor also has dependants. However, paragraph 14 provides for a regulation according to which the Statistical Office shall publish, by 1 February each year, in Official Announcements, an accounting minimum of subsistence. Amendment 8 is to delete § 13 of the original text of the draft text concerning the formation of the Chamber of sworn translators. The conspiracies opposed its formation and wished their activities to continue to be financed by the Ministry of Justice. The Ministry of Justice accepted this proposal. The last amendment to the draft proposal sets out the starting points for the entry into force of many of the points listed above. We also took procedural decisions: to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda of today's plenary session on 2 May (consensus), to propose that the second reading be closed (by 4, 2 votes against and 1 abstention). The next decision was to send the draft to third reading when the second reading is closed, by 9 May 2018 (consensus decision) and to conclude the final vote. As I said, another Commission meeting took place: three amendments were discussed on 17 April. They were essentially analogous and concerned the addition of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Code of Civil Procedure and the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure to the fact that, in general, any court hearing in any type of court proceedings will have to be recorded in the future. That's the general rule. There are also certain differences, but the amendment is that, under the current law, mandatory recording is foreseen only in the case of proceedings in general proceedings. This requirement now extends to all other forms of trial. I'm done with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U189	There are questions for the waitress. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U190	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! The more I look back on this procedure, the more disturbing I am is Amendment 3, which has been tabled on an ad hoc basis. The Supreme Court made the relevant decision already in January, but the Ministry was unable to submit the solution to us as a separate draft. My question is this: can we be sure that if the content of Amendment 3 is legalised, there is no reason for the Supreme Court to decide that these are disproportionate rates? Aren't they too high?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U191	I'm just saying, are you talking about these tables? To be honest, I cannot predict what the decisions of national judges may be in the future and how they will motivate them, from which they will come. But at least according to the explanations provided by the Ministry of Justice, it can be assumed that the proposals of the Supreme Court have been fully taken into account, that cross-subsidisation has been significantly reduced and that these rates are based on actual expenditure. In the past, there was also a problem that, in the case of smaller claims, the bailiff's work was underpaid and was offset by the fact that more was taken from the debtor in the case of higher claims. At the same time, however, the bailiff may not have had to contribute and exert so much more in order to recover a larger claim. In this sense, the situation is now improving thanks to the increase in the rates applicable to the lower requirements.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U192	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U193	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! These are the same bailiffs' fees. If you have a €35 claim, then after the law is in force, the bailiff will cash in twenty-five years, but it will be another six months, 1 January will fall, and you will already have to pay 45 euros with the advance. If you look at these tables from both the bottom and the top, there are a lot of questions about why such numbers. For example, an amount of 7.50 is added in a cell. My first question is: if your claim is 35 euros, how much will the bailiff take from you now? If the Act enters into force, EUR 25 will start to take place and EUR 45 will start to take place from 1 January 2019. Have you checked these tables in a comparative manner?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U194	These tables were examined by the Commission. How much is it now? Unfortunately, I do not have this law ahead of me, it has to be seen in the current law of bailiffs, where there is a similar table. I really don't remember how much you have to pay on a $35 claim. However, the lead committee, the Committee on Legal Affairs, supported these tables by 5 votes in favour, 2 against and 2 abstentions. So, after the debate in the Commission, these tables were supported. I don't know how else to comment.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U195	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U196	Thank you. The initial purpose of the draft measure was for the Ministry to transfer to bailiffs, notaries and other bodies their own registers, to carry out examinations and to resolve other technical and administrative issues. They wanted to make them themselves responsible for their sector. I now have the question of whether we have the certainty that the necessary conditions have been created for this. Let me give you an example. The bailiffs must start to keep a register, but at the same time they have pointed out that the Ministry has developed an e-Filler for which EUR 1 million was paid out of the European Union's Structural Funds, but this cannot be put into practice, which would require additional investments of at least EUR 800000. Can we be sure that this law will apply?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U197	This is currently an estimate of the need for additional investments. The aim of the Ministry of Justice was initially that sworn translators also start managing themselves as a separate organisation, but the debate found that this is not reasonable at the moment. The conspirators thought they couldn't handle it. The Ministry of Justice is still organising their work, training, exams, and everything that needs to be done there. It is expected that, in cooperation with the State, the Ministry of Justice, a solution will have to be found to renew the registers and to make the investments needed to complete the platforms. We did not discuss the budgetary aspects in the Commission, for example, which budget will finance some kind of innovation or some kind of development.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U198	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U199	And I'll take it from here, good manager! I was looking at the law of the bailiff. At present, the bailiff's fee is 15.50 if your claim is up to 35 euros. Now almost 10 euros is coming to the bailiff and it will be another six months, and another 20 euros. What's the economic logic of that? Like a tenner and another six months, and another 20? The requirement in itself is quite small.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U200	This is the reason I was referring to. The Supreme Court found that there is a conflict with the Constitution and there is cross-subsidisation. In the case of small claims, the bailiff's remuneration has been very low and this rate needs to be increased in order to bring it into line with how much the bailiff actually spends on the claim. His bet must be covered. However, in the case of higher claims, this remuneration has again been disproportionate and should be reduced. This was the fact referred to by the Supreme Court, this cross-subsidisation must be reduced. That is why, in particular, the rates applicable to the collection of smaller claims have been raised. That's right. It is based on the desire of the Supreme Court that everything be compatible with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U201	Dear waitress, there are no further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U202	Good vice chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, As I referred to in my questions, I see two points of risk in this draft. The biggest problem, in my opinion, is the introduction of basic fees and advance payments for bailiffs, which were tabled on our table as an amendment. Allegedly, both the Ministry and the bailiffs have been discussing this issue for several months, as the relevant decision of the Supreme Court came in January. However, we did not receive an answer to the question why the Ministry had not been able to submit it to the Riigikogu as a separate draft. These are pretty much discretionary decisions. What do I mean? I mean, there is no analysis of the impact of this change. First of all, it's people who've gotten into life's gears, whether it's because of SMS loans or something else. There are very different reasons for these people getting into those gears, and we cannot take them all in the same way. Does this change aggravate their problem, or does it help them out between the gears? Perhaps we should know such things in the Riigikogu. Secondly, I wonder how this affects the ability of households to cope. Thirdly, what is the regional impact? Is there any way we can assess this effect, and if we do, what is it like? I think this effect is very different in Estonia. I find it very doubtful that this is an agreement between bailiffs and the Ministry's office, which we have to accept automatically. I don't think we have to accept that. Another issue that I also touched on in my question is the keeping of registers, which the bailiffs themselves have made public through Äripäev. It's an eternal concern. We have wanted to become an e-state, but at the same time we have no competence or ability to improve our e-state. We sense that we are spending too much money, especially in the public sector, on different small gadgets. One example is the same e-Filler, on which EUR 1 million was spent from European Union funds. But what's it turned out to be? If you hand it over to a possible registrar, there's not much to do with it. I think it wouldn't be so difficult if the real registrars were involved right from the start, so they could have known early what they needed. And now we hear that an estimated EUR 800000 still needs to be invested, but it is not clear who is doing it. The Ministry has said through the media that he is not interested in making progress on this subject, but the Chamber assures us that they do not have this money. Why are we still processing drafts where there is no certainty that the law will actually work? I would like to remind you that the draft has been initiated by the Ministry of Justice, which demands the so-called VTK from all ministries. What's the longer name now? [[Someone's commenting on the floor.]] Yeah, that's right, the intention to develop. It should explain what the objectives of the draft are, how these objectives will be implemented and what the impact of the changes will be. Today, however, the same ministry again violates these principles with this bill. If you demand anything, please do the same yourself. I will tell Raivo that I am referring to Amendment 3 to put it all in mind. Consequently, I am handing over the draft proposal from the Free Party Group to suspend the procedure. I would ask everyone to support this.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U203	There are no further requests to speak. There are ten amendments to the draft proposal for 583; all are from the Committee on Legal Affairs and all have been fully taken into account. First, second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth, tenth amendment, decision of the commission: take full account. The amendments to the draft proposal 583 have been examined. The proposal of the commission is to conclude the second reading of the draft, but we have just heard that the Group of the Free Party proposes to interrupt the second reading of the Act of Attorneys-at-Law, the Law of Courts, the Law of bailiffs and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. We will vote on this proposal in a few minutes. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Free Party Group to interrupt the second reading of the Act of Attorneys, the Law of Courts, the Law of bailiffs and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. 16 MPs voted in favour of the proposal, 39 against and no abstentions. The proposal did not find support for the hall. This means that the second reading of Bill 583 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U204	The seventh item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. I would like to ask Urve Tiidus, member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, to present the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U205	Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The debate on the 580 amendments was held in the Committee on Legal Affairs on 17 April. Representatives of the Department of Law Enforcement and Criminal Policy of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Rescue and Crisis Management Policy Department, the Criminal Law and Procedure Department of the Ministry of Justice and the Legal Department of the Rescue Board were also invited to attend the meeting, as was criminologist Jako Salla. I recall that this draft creates a new type of procedure: a short procedure. The reason for legitimising short-term proceedings is the desire to make a specific distinction between more serious and minor infringements in the future, and the aim is also to reduce the over-criminalisation of certain less dangerous acts.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U206	Honourable waitress! I'm asking you to direct the microphones more towards you. I know Urve Tiidus has a microphone voice, but it's not good to hear right now. Please set up this other microphone more on your side, I call it Andres Herkel's move!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U207	Can I continue? By the deadline of 21 March, the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union submitted proposals, two amendments were tabled by Urve Tiidus, a member of the Riigikogu, and the Legal Affairs Committee, in cooperation with the Rescue Board and the Ministry of Internal Affairs, initiated one amendment itself. Altogether, there were four amendments. In essence, the amendments focused on two issues. The first of these aims to exclude regulation from the draft, which allows the person to be subject to additional national measures together with the imposition of sanctions. The second issue was the improvement of the Fire Safety Act. This amendment would set out in the Fire Safety Act misdemeanours where a short procedure is mandatory. Let me give you a practical example: if there is no required act with the signature of the chimney sweeper, a short procedure will apply. The first amendment was presented by Mr Aeg, on behalf of the Group. He pointed out that if the holder of the first licence was to be fined, this would involve the obligation to pass the theoretical examination, but that the same person would receive a fine for a fixed infringement with a speed camera, there would be no obligation to pass the theoretical examination. The aim of this proposal is to harmonise sanctions. Member of the Commission Liisa Oviir wanted to know the position of ministries on this issue. It turned out that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications felt that the traffic culture should improve if the person who received the initial driving licence was to receive a penalty in the criminal record and, in addition, a new traffic theory examination had to be carried out. The Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice do not support the requirement for an additional examination. This amendment was taken into account in substance by the Commission. All ten members of the Commission present were in favour. The second amendment was also motivated by a discussion at the first reading session of the draft, which acknowledged the need to harmonise the requirements for passing the theory examination. In some ways, it repeats the above-mentioned proposal, but it has been written in more detail. The second amendment seeks to delete from the draft the provisions requiring the holder of the first licence to pass a re-examination in respect of the application of the penalty. In particular, there is no reasonable justification why the imposition of the sanction should lead to a re-examination. Members of the Commission put forward a logical argument that it is not actually clear in what concrete way sending to the theory examination will contribute to improving leadership skills. Neither can learning and exam be a measure used as a coercive. I think that is a very logical argument. And it was with these arguments that the commission took the amendment fully and consensually into account. I will also read out the composition of the committee: Jaanus Karilaid, Uno Kaskpeit, Hardi Volmer, Külliki Kübarsepp, Liisa Oviir, Toomas Paur, who replaced Olga Ivanova, Raivo Aeg, Toomas Vitsut, Urve Tiidus and Valdo Randpere. The third amendment aims to remove amendments to the Road Transport Act from the draft. As with the regulation on the re-examination of drivers with the initial driving licence, the amendments to the road transport law proposed in the draft act give legal meaning to the data in the e-file. The infringements which this amendment has in mind include, for example, the non-payment of road user charges or the payment of a smaller amount of road user charges. These misdemeanours also go under short procedure. The possibility that these cases will later be taken into account when assessing the reputation of the carrier or suspending the licence is ruled out by this amendment. The subject also aroused questions. Valdo Randpere asked what was the situation with regard to the collection of road charges for foreign vehicles. Veiko Kombusar, Head of Department of the Ministry of the Interior, explained that the regulation concerning road user charges entered into force on 1 January this year. Until now, road user charges were not charged to foreign vehicles because we did not have a sufficient number of road user charge acceptance points. It was hoped that the fee would be paid online. There could also have been corresponding notifications at the border. Veiko Communist confirmed that the situation has improved. Other specific questions were asked. Jaanus Karilaid examined whether the change in question had an impact on the budget. Henry Timberg explained that the data in the e-file is currently of no legal significance. In order to share data, the system should be developed and cost EUR 20000 to EUR 30000. If this third amendment were to be supported, these development work would not be needed and the money would remain. This amendment was also fully and by consensus taken into account by the lead committee. The voters were the same as I read before. And there was the fourth amendment, which was made by the Committee on Legal Affairs in cooperation with the Rescue Board and the Ministry of the Interior. It is intended to supplement the Fire Safety Act by determining the compositions of misdemeanours for which it is mandatory to apply a short procedure. The amendment also contains a list of relevant misdemeanours. At the beginning of my presentation, I gave an example of the evidence given by the chimney sweeper, but since the barbecue season has begun, I will also give an example in this regard. The effect of the surroundings and weather conditions on the safety of fire-making must be taken into account when making and grilling fire outside the fireplace. If a fireplace is too close to a building or forest or to a highly combustible object, or if a fire is carried out in the event of a large wind, it must be accounted for, it is a potential misdemeanour and it may be a short procedure. Commissioner Randpere asked whether sanctions for minor infringements could be waived at all. Lawyer of the Rescue Board Margit-Marit Raudsepp explained that the criminal law reform carried out in 2015 reduced the composition of the Fire Safety Act and left only necessary. There are situations where national supervision and administrative procedures are not sufficient and there is, however, a need to implement criminal law measures. Mrs. Ironsmith added that the Rescue Board is still handling quite a few misdemeanours, with 113 in total last year. Henry Timberg, representative of the Ministry of the Interior, added that the Ministry of the Interior certainly prefers administrative measures. This amendment received a decision from the Commission: to take full account. Nine members of the Commission were in favour and with the abstentions of Valdo Randpere. Now, here's a little extra topic. Following the discussion of the amendments, Criminologist Jako Salla, who attended the Commission's meeting, pointed out that this draft was contrary to the principles of the system of special treatment for minors which entered into force at the beginning of this year. Attention, minors! There is now much wider opportunity for misconceptions to respond to offences committed by minors. In the case of misdemeanour proceedings, influence is now considered to be more important, such as an oral warning. Instead of being fined, influence must become a rule during this year, said in the Commission. This debate became quite specific. Those present admitted that there was a paradigm shift in the punishment of minors, but it was also stated that it would take time to put it into practice. The representatives of the ministries also pointed out that the application of short-term proceedings in the event of violations of minors is not necessarily imperative. Our debate actually got even longer, but I am not communicating everything here; the content of the debate is shown in the minutes. Mr Karilaid, as chairman of the committee, announced that the Commission would take note of Mr Salla's comment. Thus, the first three amendments were supported by consensus by the Commission, the fourth by nine members out of ten, with one abstention. The procedural decisions were as follows: to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 2 May, to propose that the second reading be closed and, when the second reading is closed, to send the draft to third reading by 9 May, and to hold a final vote. All decisions were taken by consensus. These were good amendments and such consensual decisions. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U208	The rapporteur will be asked by Mr Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U209	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I am happy to read here that the law on fire safety will be amended and the fine will be EUR 40. But who will this EUR 40 fine be imposed on? Firefighters or rescuers make this request, but their 28 depots of 27 are themselves flammable.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U210	Thank you, dear Peeter Ernits, for this somewhat imaginary question. These fines are still imposed on the persons concerned. I have no further comment here, it is quite well written in the explanatory memorandum to whom these claims are made.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U211	Thank you very much, dear waitress. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. That's not what you want. Four proposals have been tabled to amend the 580, and we will examine them together. The first amendment was tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, decision of the commission: to consider the substance. Second amendment, author Urve Tiidus, member of the Riigikogu, decision of the commission: take full account. The third amendment, also tabled by Urve Tiidus, member of the Riigikogu, decision of the commission: take full account. The fourth amendment was tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs, the decision of the commission: take full account. The amendments to the draft proposal for 580 have been examined. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of the draft. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U212	Eighth item: First reading of the draft law amending the State Pension Insurance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. Ms Kaia Iva, Minister for Social Protection, to present the speech chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U213	Good afternoon, Mr President. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Today I have a pleasant opportunity to introduce you to bill 613 which is probably one of the longest prepared in the Republic of Estonia. I hope that this will also make it high-quality and thorough. First of all, such small information that in the back of the hall, where your materials are available, the most important charts and tables have been printed in colour, which may illustrate my report and facilitate listening to it. Unfortunately, it is not possible to display such material on the screen when introducing draft laws, which is why it exists in this paper form. Your materials and analyses do have the same information, but maybe it's easier to track some facts when everything is shown separately. Now to the bill. As I said, its development has been based on a very thorough analysis and it is perfectly understandable that the pension system, which affects several generations of people, also requires this. In preparing the draft, the involvement of partners and stakeholders took place in four phases. First, in 2011 the Ministry of Finance, in cooperation with the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Estonian Health Insurance Fund, the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund, the Estonian Insurance Association, Eesti Pank, the Estonian Trade Union Confederation and the Estonian Employers' Confederation, ordered a survey in Praxis on the possibilities for financing the Estonian social security system, which included, among other things, the future of pension insurance, forecasts and challenges and solutions. Secondly, in 2014, the National Audit Office prepared an audit report entitled "Sustainability of the state pension system', in which it concluded that the current pension system facilitates early retirement and the state needs a long-term plan to ensure the sustainability of the pension system in the context of a reduction in the number of people of working age, an increase in the number of pensioners and an increase in life expectancy. In the third phase, in 2015-2016, an analysis of the sustainability of the national old-age pension was carried out. The analysis was carried out in consultation with experts and stakeholders at several stages and in a number of different working groups. In March 2015, a non-formal steering group consisting of representatives of target groups and social partners was set up in the Ministry of Social Affairs to reach a social agreement on the objectives of pension insurance. The first phase of the Steering Group's work was summarised by a seminar in cooperation with the World Bank on social and financial sustainability of pension insurance held in June 2015. In December 2015, a seminar was held on retirement age and pension formula, where proposals to address these problems were discussed. A final meeting of the Steering Group was held in February 2016 and the proposals for the analysis were accepted. In November 2016, the "Pension 2050" conference, organised in cooperation with the Estonian Cooperation Assembly, discussed the role and contribution of people in shaping their retirement, in addition to the legislative changes planned. The fourth stage for discussing the draft law on state pension insurance fell to 2017 when four events were focused on the discussion in cooperation with the Estonian Cooperation Assembly, the Estonian Employers' Confederation, representatives of the Estonian Trade Union Confederation and TALO. Now, however, from a specific bill. Why do we want to make these changes, which have also been called pension reform? Why is this necessary? As I was referring to, we also have colored extra material for you, and this is what best describes the state of things in Figures 1 and 2. The population, as we know, is aging in Estonia as it is throughout Europe. Looking at numbers, there are currently about two employees per pensioner, but in 2050 they would be on average 1.3 per pensioner. This illustrates quite clearly the fact that we can pay less for one elderly person to retire from the taxes we collect. The population is shrinking and people live longer. And as regards the claim that a higher birth rate would help, it is well known that in the near future it would not solve the situation either. In addition, the fact that wage inequality is reflected in future pensions is also a problem. What's the problem? The problem is precisely that small wages are boosted to very small pensions. If you have this page in front of you, see Figure 2. At present, the median and average pensions are quite the same and they are predominant pensions. Without change, the vast majority of pensions would be very close to the limit of absolute poverty, and that would mean additional pressure on our social system. It follows from the demographic situation that, if the median pension in 2015 was EUR 360, the figure would be EUR 280 in 2050, taking into account comparable amounts. The pension reduction would therefore be felt. Of course, we must try to alleviate these problems. Otherwise, the risk of poverty for pensioners would increase, and of course, as has been said, expenditure on social benefits would also increase. So the aim of this reform and these changes is to make pensions more solidarity, more demographic trends and flexible enough for people to make their own choices when they want to retire. The desire is to provide people with adequate retirement incomes and guarantee people who have worked against old age poverty; to treat people more equally in pension schemes; to ensure the sustainability of the pension system; to motivate people to stay in the labour market and thus increase overall labour supply. Now changes already by block in more concrete terms. The first block of amendments foresees that the pension will become more flexible from 2021 onwards. People can choose the most suitable time to retire, withdraw their pension partially or suspend their pension without losing money. It is based on the principle of actuarial neutrality. Existing pension assets are distributed over a shorter or longer period, regardless of the time of retirement. This means that the present value of the pension rights collected will not change later or earlier when you retire. The amendments allow people to retire up to five years before the general retirement age. The person will have the right to choose whether he or she will be paid a full pension, a partial pension or a suspension for a period of time. However, there are additional seniority requirements for early retirement. In order to retire five years before retirement age, the qualifying period is 40 years to go four years before, the qualifying period is 35 years, three years earlier means a qualifying period of 25 years, two years earlier a qualifying period of 20 years and one year earlier a qualifying period of 20 years. No, there was a mistake: for three years, the qualifying period is 30 years, for two years it is 25 years and for one year it is 20 years. These requirements are set out in the draft, so the length of the step is five years. As far as flexibility is concerned, there is a right to early retirement and at the same time to work. At present, you do not have the right to work if you have retired before the deadline. Block two. According to this draft, the formula for the national old-age pension will change from 2021 onwards. This is described in Figure 3 of this supplemental material, which you were able to take from the back of the hall, with the various parts collected at different times, which constitute the final pension formula, with explanations. Instead of the part of the insurance that depends on the amount of remuneration, people will continue to collect the part of the service that depends on the years worked. The full transition to a career will take place according to this draft in 2037. This is the length of the transitional period during which half of the insurance part and half of the seniority part are collected. From 2037 onwards, only the joint and several shares will be collected, which is then the seniority share. The sum of the solidarity shares shall be multiplied by the annual price. Of course, as can be seen from this formula and the figure, all the previously collected parts will remain, no recalculations of the earlier parts will be made. It is therefore also clear that the new formula will mainly concern people entering the labour market since 2037. Others are less affected by this: innovation does not concern those who are now on retirement at all, and very little concerns those who will retire in the coming years. As a result of these changes, most of the pensions in the first pillar of current pension collectors remain dependent on salary. Insurance units already collected and dependent on wages collected before 2037 will continue to be included in the pension formula: as I said, they will not be converted. The link with the size of wages is maintained in future pensions in the second pillar and, of course, also in the voluntary third pillar. So the new formula is most relevant to children born now when they enter the labour market in a few decades' time. The third block of changes is as follows: From 2027 onwards, the draft relates to the average life expectancy of the pensionable age. In this way, the pension system is in line with demographic developments and, as the population declines, pensions equivalent to those currently available can be paid. When calculating the retirement age, the average change in five years is looked at, but there is also a guarantee that the retirement age cannot rise for more than three months and the retirement age, or retirement period, is announced to people in advance for two years. Nothing can happen overnight. Block four changes. As has been said, since wage dependency in the first pillar is starting to decrease, the second pillar is all the more important. Therefore, the possibility of joining the second pillar will be re-opened to those born in 1970-1982. It's a voluntary merger, but once it's joined, it can't be reversed. The merger will not be opened to those who were born before because they would not be able to accumulate enough pension assets in the second pillar. According to the draft, it would be possible to join in the period from 1 January 2020 to 30 November 2020 and payments would start at the beginning of 2021. According to the Estonian Tax and Customs Board, there were 41000 people who had not joined in 2016. These people will then have the opportunity to join in the future. Figure 4 shows well how the pension will develop under the current system and how it will develop after the reform. If you look at it, the grey part is the base part, blue is the insurance part of the first pillar, which is purely dependent on salary, and red is the second pillar, which is also dependent on salary. About two thirds of the pension would be dependent on the salary of the average wage recipient and one third would be the same base. After the reform, the wage-dependent share of the first pillar will start to decrease and there will also be a retirement-dependent part. So it is also important how long a person has worked, that salary dependency remains purely in the second pillar. Table 1 of the accompanying material shows the formation of a pension for specific salaries. These calculations and models have been produced in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, they have been made by the Ministry of Finance analysts. And another characteristic example of how pensions would develop without these formula changes. If a pension of 29% of Estonia's average wage is currently paid to the minimum wage, it would fall to 21% without any change. That would be a significant and huge decline. This decline would be avoided as a result of the reform, and it would be 29% for this most vulnerable target group as well. Although today we are mainly talking about the first pillar, we are also looking at the first and the second pillars together. They form a whole, and on the basis of the current analyses, these changes are essential to achieving the objectives that I was talking about here at the beginning. I hope that the procedure in the Riigikogu will proceed rapidly, constructively and with all the circumstances in mind. I wish you the best of luck. Now I'm ready to answer questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U214	The procedure for the draft is certainly a matter of questions. The first of these will be presented by Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U215	Thank you. Madam Minister! The drafting of this bill, as I understand it, began in 2011. This means that this work has taken place during several coalitions. Has anything fundamentally changed in this process in 2016 and 2017, i.e. in the transition to the power of the current coalition? And the second question would be this. So here's this diagram 1. I hope that these are the figures for 2015 - there is no explanation here - and this can startle to death if there is no explanation.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U216	Thank you. I'll start with the end of your question. Yes, if Table 1 reflects future figures, referring to what might happen to numbers in the future, then indeed Figure 1 is rather designed to provide an overview thanks to comparable numbers in 2015. Of course, just as wages are growing, pension numbers would grow. But now the answer to the question is whether there has been a fundamental change. Analysis and proposed solutions are, of course, born analysts in collaboration with interest groups, experts and many others. Analysis, as such, of course, cannot be changed by politicians, analysis is analysis. The previous government coalition agreed and agreed on the need to change the retirement age and make retirement flexible. However, there was no agreement on how to improve the situation so that, if the current system were to be maintained, a very large number of people would receive a pension on the verge of absolute poverty. The previous government coalition did not agree on these solutions. In the analysis, a couple of different solutions were proposed, in our opinion what we are discussing here is optimal in terms of taking account of working time as well. The analysis also suggested an option for simply indexing the base part very rapidly and reducing wage dependency accordingly very quickly. However, this would have meant that the first pillar, although formally dependent on wages, would have grown so quickly that it would no longer have mattered how long a person has worked. But it doesn't matter if a person has worked for 15 years or 45 years. Now there's the base part, or the part dependent on standing, and there's the second pillar, which depends on your salary. So the previous government failed to find a consensus or a solution on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U217	Please, Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U218	Thank you. Good waitress! Here's the question. If we look at the explanatory memorandum on page 56, it's good to see that if you retire three years early, you're now getting a minus 14,4%. But from 2021, your pension will be 16.6% lower. Isn't this change coming too soon? Many people have been waiting for this time, with poor health, with other problems. Is this year still fair?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U219	In the opinion of the pre-emptors and analysts, this is fair. As has been said, in the case of pension assets, we have been guided by actuarial neutrality. So it's really fair. One way or another, if you retire early, you get a slightly smaller pension, go later, get a slightly higher pension. There is also additional flexibility to be able to work at the same time and, for example, to take half a pension, not a full pension. So there are more flexibility elements. In our opinion, this is an appropriate amendment, given that it also provides for additional elements of flexibility.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U220	Raivo Põldaru.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U221	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Currently, the second pillar is designed to maintain the pension system, but payments are extremely wretched. What will happen in the future if the second pillar has to play a more important role? Will payments from there increase and, if so, to whom? One paragraph here also talks about the amendment that current pensioners can start applying for conversion. Maybe it'll help some people?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U222	Thank you. I don't know what to say about the expected benefits. I didn't quite understand the question. As far as the second pillar is concerned, of course, the longer pension assets are collected in the second pillar, the bigger the pension assets are. To date, we have been able to collect it for about 15 years and it is clear that little has been collected at that time and the sums paid out are probably much lower than when the pension assets are collected at 40 to 45 years. Their share will undoubtedly increase. In 2017, 700000 people had joined the second pillar and the payout was on average €55 per month at the end of 2017. However, given that it has been collected in a relatively short period of time, it is clear that it will certainly increase in the future. Moreover, we must take into account that the honourable Riigikogu has made changes concerning fund fees relating to the second pillar, all of which have been corrected. I believe, and this is also the expert opinion, that our management companies have learned from the setbacks that had to do with the recession. At that time, the decisions made by the fund managers in the allocation of assets were perhaps not the most appropriate. Of course, this has set the second pillar back on its reputation. At first, everyone could really join, but after a very short collection period, the payments that were made later were really marginal. That is why it may seem that the second pillar does not play an important role. Now this role is growing and, of course, that is why a long transition period is also foreseen so that people can collect enough assets in the second pillar.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U223	Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U224	Thank you. Madam Minister, I don't think you can sense how strange the IRL Minister has said that the source of wealth is to take away from others in the name of equality. You probably don't understand the meaning of what you're saying either. For example, the wage differential is somehow amplified by the pension system. It's just not true. It will hold, but to a lesser extent. Tell me, what analysis still shows that it is the international custom to build the pension system as equal as you wish! Generally speaking, equalisation tends to increase poverty. IRL used to think so, and Dmitri Egorov drew attention to this aspect of taxation. This means that contributions will decrease, but it should be added that efforts will also decrease. If it is not the future that depends on the effort, then society's prosperity will surely suffer. I ask about this international comparison: where is still such a solidarity system based on such arguments?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U225	As far as Mr Egorov's concerns are concerned, that is understandable. He's in charge of tax collection. But we must not forget that the situation has changed considerably over the years. Other systems, which depend on the payment of taxes, have also become more and more. I will mention sickness benefits, parental benefits, but also, for example, obtaining a loan. It is also necessary to prove that you are an honest taxpayer and that you have an income with which you can serve the loans. There are plenty of these examples. You said that I think or that IRL thinks that wealth can be created by equality. It's not like that. We have always thought, and we still think, that wealth can be created by working. That's pretty clear. But we are in a situation where the current pension system creates such a situation that the difference between 20% of the smallest pensions and 20% of the largest pensions will increase more than four times in the future. We have nothing against large pensions, but we are concerned that if people who receive the lowest pension live on the verge of absolute poverty, we will have to pay significantly more social benefits. What does that mean? This means that a person who has worked for 40 years, but has earned a small salary despite being responsible, hears us say that yes, now you are the person asking for income support. This would mean that we will still collect this money from Estonian taxpayers and then distribute it again as subsidies. I don't think that makes any sense. You also asked for examples to be given in some countries where there is a left-wing government that is being done there. In these countries, payments from the state budget to the pension fund have been significantly increased. Much more money is made available for pensions. In our opinion, we are currently not in a position to make exponentially larger payments from the Treasury to the Pension Fund. There are other countries where the first pension pillar really is a guarantee pension. For example, the UK and Denmark pay a fully level 1 pillar. Our second pillar is also essentially similar to the first pillar of several countries, which includes the wage component. So by its nature, it's a mandatory pillar. In this sense, we have examples of rather similar first pillar pensions, they are given in the analysis, they can still be reviewed there.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U226	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U227	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I will continue with my question on the subject of Mrs Pikhof, and I will come to this so-called flexible pension. If you retire five years later under the current rule, your pension will increase by 54%. According to the new system, this increase would be 41.9%, which is 13.1% less. You call it actuarially neutral pension, but if you look at all this gradation here, you can see that it's obviously not in the human interest. Or we take that a person retires, for example, three years earlier, then it is exactly the same. You say that the flexibility of the pension system is enhanced by the fact that receiving a pension can also work at the same time. In fact, even now, there is no prohibition on working. This innovation makes people feel like they're being saved.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U228	Thank you. It's up to us to explain that this feeling isn't right. And I would like to correct your claim by pointing out that if a person goes on pre-retirement, he can't work at the same time. So now we're creating a flexible system. A person can retire early and work at the same time. He can also decide whether he or she will take a full pension or half a pension before going on old-age leave or, in the meantime, stop taking it if he or she has a suitable job. So you can make a lot more choices. Now, though, whether people feel that this system is unfair. Now this is where we need to talk about the fact that the world of numbers and money in the world of really numbers and mathematics is very important. As I explained, these percentages may change in the future. Much depends on the value of the money and then on the percentage calculated according to the actuarial neutrality principle. Given the average life expectancy, the value of money, and other factors, the percentages given today are those in which a person cannot be deceived, but he cannot win either. Assuming that most people live as long as life expectancy in general, it can be said that the pension assets collected by a person are the same, they retire sooner or later. And there's little place here to discuss whether it's true or not. It's mathematically calculated. It was also discussed whether it should be a very precise number or whether it could be rounded up in some way. It is precisely because a person does not feel that, because of any rounding or other circumstances, he could be fooled if the word could be used at all, it was decided that a very accurate calculation model would be used.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U229	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U230	Thank you, good manager. Good Minister, have you taken the gender aspect into account? Suppose a man and woman work for 40 years, for example, and calculated that EUR 400 should receive a pension. However, since a man lives five years less as a pensioner than a woman on average, he actually loses EUR 24000 in this 400-euro pension. And if you look at the entire army of male pensioners, a small piece of work says that nearly 500 million euros will go to the grave with the men. Have you ever thought that, in the case of men's pensions, perhaps there should be some way to consider that they will lose an average of EUR 24,000, but the entire male army will lose nearly 500 million?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U231	Thank you for that question. It refers to another rather painful subject. In fact, there is a wage gap in Estonia, which is why women's wages are lower. They are often smaller in some specific circumstances, but some pay gaps are also inexplicable; they are not exactly justified. But we know that women's pay levels are lower and then their pensions are lower. This is also a problem that has been taken into account in the drafting of this draft. So also in order to prevent women from falling to the limit of absolute poverty with their pensions, a change in the formula is foreseen. Now, of your claim that men are leaving and their pension money is missing. I would remind you that the first pillar pension is paid from the taxes collected by the people currently employed. It is not money that has been collected in advance, it is money that is jointly and severally distributed between generations. And you could turn the question around. If we can see that there is such a problem, perhaps we should think instead of using a coefficient in favour of women's pensions. But it's a theoretical question, I'm not saying that.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U232	Heljo Pikhof, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U233	Thank you. Good waitress! If we look at this table again on page 56, we'll see that if you retire now three years later, you'll get a so-called gain of 32%, but if you go through the new system, it's only 22%. Did you also discuss this in the Commission that if a person postpones his retirement and has had a very good salary in his previous life, but now, at an old age, the salary is very low, that he will then withdraw his pension in instalments and that deferred pension that he will not withdraw will earn as an extra one?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U234	Yeah, that's it. It all depends on how a person makes a decision, how he thinks it all for himself. If he first withdraws only part of his pension at retirement age, his pension will increase by that amount in the future. And vice versa: if he withdraws part of his pension first, he loses that amount. But over the years, he earns more pension assets. These aspects have all been taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U235	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U236	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! During election campaigns, people often find it a great concern that their careers are not calculated fairly. Are there plans to change the principles for calculating seniority? And the second question is: I cannot find information in the explanatory memorandum about the number of people of working age in Estonia who do not receive years of seniority for their work.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U237	When people work, they definitely get years of service for the job. This has always been the case, and no one has taken that right away from people. I think that it is probably not meant to be that a person is now retiring and that, in the future, he or she will be entitled to an old-age pension if he or she has completed at least 15 years of service. But there is one question that has caused people concern and which I have talked about here for a very long time. In future, the insurance unit will be counted as a retirement unit. According to the current system, if a person goes to work for one year and has paid a tax on it at least on the basis of a minimum wage, the pension entitlement period is one year. However, people have been disturbed and alarmed by the fact that the insurance share has been calculated on the basis of wages and, in the case of low wages, it is a coefficient of 0.4 or 0.5. This has made people frustrated: I went to work all year, why is my share less than 1? The clear answer is that it's calculated on the salary. People have often misunderstood this and thought that if, for example, their share is 0.5, they also have to earn multiple pension rights. It's not like that. The requirement that 15 years must have been completed in order to obtain pension rights has always been and will continue to be so. Changing this formula will change the situation you described. In the first pillar, there is no longer a wage-dependent insurance unit, which can often be less than 1 if the average wage was lower. In this pillar, the term is taken into account: one year, one share.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U238	Jürgen Ligi, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U239	Thank you. Good waitress! After all, this whole pillar system is because an individual does not make decisions rationally, given the major demographic processes. However, he decides very rationally according to his tax burden. I am actually surprised that the IRL has gone to a boat where, long ago, there has been no more talk of some form of less taxation for high-wage earners, but simply of the redistribution of money, a higher tax rate than the increase in income, i.e. basically graduated income tax and even a smaller pension than it is now. Tell me how seriously your party shares the notion that wealth does not come from an individual effort, from an incentive, and that equality at a lower level of wealth is a value in itself! Is that also your opinion and some expert opinion, or is that your party's overwhelming opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U240	Opinions may vary from one political party to another. But your argument, which you, as you are saying, is that, as a result of the regularisation of this bill, work is not valued or that the pension is no longer dependent on pay, is simply not true. We know that the first and second pillars form a whole, the third is indeed what is actually voluntary and people have not been very willing to bet there. In addition, there are many other things that a person should contribute to in terms of future and retirement: his good health, good education, as well as other collection options. But it is also clear that, in addition to the part that depends on pay, we must also ensure that people who have worked hard are guaranteed against poverty. National pensions can and must offer guarantees against poverty to all those who have consistently contributed and made efforts over long years. The idea that perhaps all people in Estonia can earn more than average wages has been that we are demanding more than average wages for all people, so I guess that's not mathematically possible. There are always people who earn less than average wages, but to say that their efforts are not appropriate or are not necessary for us is not conceivable. Also, as a result of the new pension system, the difference between pensions remains, if you take the lower and upper limits, that difference is 2 or 2.5 times. The difference remains, so it is not right to say that there has been some kind of equalisation. Pensions are becoming more equal, but not equal. It's eloquent to have that difference. Moreover, it is clear that those with higher incomes are also able to collect in other ways. We know that many are actively doing so. To say that we should increase the tax burden in the future in order that a large part of the population who has been working for 40 to 45 years should increase social benefits, I think there would be nothing right-wing in it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U241	My colleague Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U242	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister! Estonian society has always been driven by the desire to have a better education, a better job in this respect, to be fully innovative, better, more educated, stronger. But has an analysis been carried out of the change in the mentality of this pension reform and the changes that await the higher education system in this regard? We are planning and discussing very fundamental steps here that could lead to a change in the mentality of society. Has it ever been mentioned, has it been analysed and, if so, who has prepared these analyses and forecasts for the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U243	Thank you. In the introductory part, I spoke quite thoroughly about the analyses that preceded this draft. Of course, these aspects have also been analysed and tried to find a balanced solution so that, on the one hand, important problems can be solved, but not by creating new problems. Of course, good education creates new value for everyone and also for society. But if we think that man's working hours are, say, 45 years, and he wants to do a job that matches his abilities, then he'll be educated to do it. Such self - fulfillment is undoubtedly vital. Indeed, efforts have been made to find this point of balance and these analyses have also examined the importance of learning for one reason or another. And now, if you may not think of some kind of analysis, but of your acquaintances or loved ones, you may find that you do not know the young people who would say that I am going to study one or the other higher education because my pension will then be one or different. All the more so, 50 years in advance, people don't really know how to think. Today's young people, including the age of 30, say yes, they know that their own contribution to raising their future assets must be significantly higher. They know that their contribution to them, to their own value, and also to their personal earthly belongings, must be greater. So I'm sure that's what young people do. And as I have said, that is why this balance has been sought. A third of the pension is what shows what is called due diligence, how many years a person has worked, and a third is what depends on the salary. I think, for example, that it is important for people with higher education whose wage levels are below the average in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U244	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U245	Thank you very much. Madam Minister! People are afraid that in the future, if the first pillar amounts are relatively equal for all, pensions will be very small, more like livelihoods or poverty subsidies. Could that be the case? And the other half of the question: in what year will the first people to retire who will completely lose out on the first pillar?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U246	As I said, those people who will be fully affected by the new system, for which the transition period is over, have recently been born. They enter the labour market in the region of 2037 and are subject to the new system in full force. But now, out of your doubt, if the amount of the first pillar is reduced, perhaps in the future, the amount of pensions will be something that will not satisfy us at all. However, I have also been asked the opposite. I have been asked how much you are raising your pension with this pension reform. The changes provided for in this draft cannot exponentially increase the pension, but they can prevent the damage that would happen if we did not make these changes. This may best be illustrated by the replacement rates that would be introduced after the reform. This is shown in Table 1 in this additional paper. The substitution rates are still slightly higher than the current ones. This shows the recipient of the minimum wage, the recipient of the average wage and the recipient of the double average wage, based on a 40-year standard. It has not been taken into account that according to the new system, the retirement age is starting to rise quietly, which also means that people are raising their pension assets for longer, i.e. their pension assets are larger. The replacement rates show that the average wage recipient has a substitute rate of 34% of the average wage, compared to 41% in 2050. Thus, the replacement rate will increase and the purchasing power will undoubtedly also increase. So there is also a slight increase in the real size of the pension. But, of course, we can't promise anyone that this is now a bill for exponentially rising pensions. A little more about the importance of the second pillar. After all, the first pillar will be smaller if there are fewer workers. There are now two workers per pensioner, only 1.7 in the future. It is clear that this gap must be covered somewhere. And that is what is compensated by the growth of the second pillar, which alleviates the concerns of the demographic situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U247	Mikhail Stalnukhin, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U248	Thank you. Madam Minister! Every time there's a new reform, a big and important thing for society, it always starts a war against it for purely political reasons. And you know perfectly well that it begins now. That was when we changed the tax system, wasn't it, and it's happening now. They're gonna find out some places that seem suspicious, and they're gonna start scaring people. I have a question about the information campaign. Will the ministry under your command begin to explain, explain to people, that it has nothing to do with people of this age, and what will change for anyone? Have you taken that into account?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U249	Thank you for this important question. Of course, we understand that even when decisions are essential, there are always changes that are not sympathetic or popular. And even if it is seen to be absolutely necessary, there will still be a lot of argument. We have seen this in the last year, when the principles of the cabinet are generally accepted. At the same time, we have also seen that although it might be expected that the press, where people work for more than Estonia's average salary, is also looking for critical places, it has admitted that indeed, given Estonian society as a whole, these changes are necessary. Of course, we have thought about giving people adequate, correct information so that they first know who changes affect, who does not. As has been said, it does not affect current pensioners and does not affect those who are going to retire in the near future. Earlier pensions are not counted, they remain valid. Change will come in the future. People have to be able to make choices. For example, born within the same long period of 12 years, you have to think about whether or not to join the second pillar. After all, we have to make thoughtful decisions about our own future. We still need to consider whether it is reasonable to retire sooner or later, whether this actuary neutrality is still correct. In this respect, we have made plans and, in the negotiations on the budgetary strategy, we have requested money to do so, so that EUR 150000 is earmarked for communication expenditure for the period 2019/2021. Information must reach all people through several channels. Nor is the deadline for the entry into force of the law very short. There must be time to prepare information systems so that they function impeccablely. Self-service capabilities must also be developed so that people can make more precise calculations and use other self-service systems on their computers without leaving home. These expenditures are also intended and planned in the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U250	Monika Haukanõmm, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U251	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I'm going to touch the stature unit now. From 2036 they're moving to a new system. They say and it still sounds like one year gives you a qualifying share. During the Soviet period, study at the university was also taken into account. How's the new system? Please make it up to us: a young person goes to a vocational school, a university, or a doctorate, for example, whether or not these years are also taken into account as a retirement unit?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U252	According to this draft, no change has been proposed in this respect. At present, the period of study is not taken into account in the retirement part of the pension insurance and no changes in this respect are planned in the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U253	Peter Ernits, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U254	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! We take the regional aspect, the impact on regional development. You say that Põlva, Võru and Valgamaa have a prominent number of people living in relative and absolute poverty among older people. How do these planned changes affect these poorest regions in Estonia? These people, are they kindergarteners or some other kindergarteners living in Põlva County, Valgamaa or Võru County, what kind of pensions can they expect?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U255	Thank you. Indeed, a certain regional aspect may be at stake here. As you said, these are regions where the salaries currently earned are lower than elsewhere in Estonia. And as I said, small wages would also mean very small pensions, and this replacement rate that you can look at here would fall for them. The current changes reduce the risk of poverty in areas where wage levels are low. The fall in pensions is kept very low, including at the level of absolute poverty. So this is certainly good news for the regions you mentioned.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U256	Krista Aru, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U257	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! A young person certainly does not think that he or she has to retire or make his or her choices according to where and how he or she could receive a better pension. I ask you again what change in the mentality of society you see in relation to this pension reform. How would you put it? As I said, in Estonian society for a very long time there has been an attempt towards higher education, a better job, a more successful life. What could be the wording of the mentality of the new society now?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U258	I do not dare say that this is a truly new wording. But if we focus only on this pension bill, I think we could say that we appreciate education, ambition and greater commitment. We also appreciate this work, which is not paid high wages in Estonian society, but which is necessary for us on a daily basis. I absolutely do not agree with the statement that I have heard from politicians that there are high-paid workers and low-paid workers at work. I also see a regrettable situation in our social sector, where we are unable to pay excessive salaries. I'm talking about social workers, social carers. Yes, next year we will be able to raise, on average, 12% of the wages of social workers in the public sector, but it is clear that their salaries will never be very high. But it's an extremely important job, we can't do anything without this job. Now we're going to get a little more balance. We value, on the basis of the second pillar, how much a person has contributed to the tax system with his taxes, and on the basis of the insurance units of the first pillar, we recognise that he has been doing his job for many years. What am I saying? We cannot say that the first pillar will soon be equal to all of it. A person who has worked for 15 years and who has worked for 45 years will receive a completely different pension. So we value both sides, and I think that more and more we understand that we need the contribution of all people.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U259	Thank you. The coordination circle has had several institutions, including the National Audit Office, concerned that such a reading of the career without taking into account the earned salary may lead to a situation where people do not withdraw the entire salary. The Ministry of Social Affairs has responded in this table of coordination with such a beautiful sentence that the employer should in any case be motivated to pay taxes, because the pension of all our pensioners depends on it. This leaves the question, however, of the belief that employers are all thinking of one finger just like that. Secondly, did you analyse the draft and, when you analysed it, how, what will happen if very large amounts of tax revenues start to fall away?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U260	Tiina Kangro, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U261	Thank you for that question. This has been raised several times, and that is why, at the beginning of the presentation of the draft, I made a little more of a point on it. Indeed, the various institutions have asked whether the fact that the link with wages and taxes paid is somewhat reduced could have a significant impact on tax revenues. I explained that, unlike a few decades ago, the benefits that a person receives are largely linked to the social tax paid by him. These are, for example, unemployment and parental benefits, as well as other benefits that depend on the tax paid. The media have recently tried to tell people that in the future, the pension will not depend on the tax paid. We should refrain from such false claims, that is indeed a false claim, and it is our job to explain it. In the future, the pension will also depend on the amount of tax paid, but this will be reflected in the second pillar. All of these things I have mentioned here are not of minor importance. In addition, national systems depend on the amount of taxes paid. I also mentioned this example that if people today want to buy an apartment or a house or conclude a leasing contract, they will also be asked to check out the payroll to see if they are able to repay the loan. And if it shows significantly lower amounts than the actual standard of living, which obviously do not correspond to a person's planned purchases, then this loan is simply lost. There are other nuances in the game. But I believe that the most bad thing we do is by shouting out for a great criticism of something that is not true. The pension will continue to depend on the tax paid, i.e. on the salary earned.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U262	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U263	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. This whole bill is about the future, and that is why I will ask you a hypothetical question, assuming a rather personal assessment from you. You are presenting this bill as the Minister for Social Protection of the Coalition. If you ever look back on this matter in, say, 15 or 20 years, what might make you happy in person? And actually, I'd also like to know what you might actually have left behind in 15 years. Well, we made a bill like this, we changed the pension system, but we were in some kind of compulsion. I'm not gonna ask you about these age groups and their longer life.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U264	Can we have some compulsions? Obviously, our greatest compulsion is the reality of our demographic situation and the various salaries that will lead to small pensions in the future. I guess that's the biggest coercion of all. In general, this bill is not based on dreams or political urges. Rather, it is based on our practical choices and real opportunities. The draft is based on very precise analyses and calculations in order to find the best solutions. This third-third-third-third-third, which kind of comes out here, could be the middle way. What maybe 20 years from now is going on? It's that we can't predict things that we don't know right now. Right now, we're adjusting this pension system. Former pension system makers are now saying that they could not foresee that wage differences would be so high and that this would affect the size of smaller pensions. It just couldn't be predicted 20 years ago, and there's no way to blame it. There will certainly be a few things that we will say in twenty years' time that we did not know so clearly. In order to be able to take flexible steps, our pension law states that every five years the pension system, including its sustainability, needs to be analysed. And right now we have written in this bill that in 2030 we should look at this formula again. There will then be a transitional period when the share of insurance is calculated as half the share of service and half the share of salary. We should look at wage changes, employment issues, tax receipts, whether they are in balance. If necessary, corrections can be made by 2037 when the system should be fully operational. So there's already a smart way in here to make adjustments in the meantime. But from the wisdom with which the system was made 20 years ago, we have tried to learn.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U265	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U266	Thank you. Madam Minister! There were already questions about the second pillar, but I would like to clarify its role. I've got a lot of people who don't play this game. Every time I go to talk about making this pillar, they have one serious question: but how can I get those paid back by 2%? In order for me to get back the amount I have in the account of x or y, I should live 120 years.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U267	There's been a little bit of a mix-up here. We can discuss this a little bit more at another point. The second pillar is that those who are now entering the labour market will all join it automatically. As I said, for those who have not joined the Union, they have been born in the 1970s to 1982 period, it is not possible to join the second pillar at the moment, but we will make it possible for them to do so. If you look at the return on the second pillar pension funds, you can now see that with one or two exceptions, everything is a perfectly visible plus. The reputation of the second pillar is limited by the fact that I have already touched on today: in 2008, quite a lot of pension assets were destroyed in the funds. But it was destroyed not only because there was a recession and a great setback, but also because our management companies had made decisions that they no longer make. They have also learned from their mistakes. At that time practically everyone could join the second pillar, and many could only collect property there for a few years. Now they're retiring for some almost nonexistent, very small sums, and that's what's brought down that reputation. We have also been asked why you do not allow everyone to rejoin now, even those born before 1970. We do not see it in this bill because it betrays people's expectations. They would think that in that time I could earn a substantial pension supplement, but that is simply not possible in such a short time. That's why we don't open the second pillar to those born before. But, as I said, the forecasts of the Ministry of Finance and this model shows that the financial impact of the second pillar, if you have been able to collect anything in it throughout your working life, is remarkable. There's one more thing that matters. I remember that on your question. I will take this opportunity to note that it has also been asked what is happening to young mothers or young fathers who are raising their children, to whom the state is currently making contributions to the second pillar or, in the absence of the second pillar, who will receive an additional pension supplement in the future. All these supplementary pension supplements, such as the calculation of seniority for raising children, will also continue to exist. But the importance of the second pillar will increase the more the longer we have been able to raise pension assets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U268	Madam Minister, you have no further questions from members of the Riigikogu. Thank you. We invite the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, Helmen Hunt, to give a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U269	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good fellows! On Monday, 16 April, the Social Committee heard the presentation of the draft Act amending the State Pension Insurance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws (613 SE) and contributed to preparing it for the first reading. The Committee was also invited by Kaia Iva, Minister of Social Protection, Agne Nettan-Sepp, Head of Pension Policy at the Ministry of Social Affairs, Lidia Soontak, Head Specialist of the Social Security Department, and Tõnu Lillelaid, Head Specialist of the Insurance Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance. I want to thank all of you very much, good colleagues, because almost all the questions that were put in the Committee on Social Affairs were also put in this Chamber today. I am not going to repeat these, because the Minister for Social Protection gave us just as comprehensive an overview as he did in this Chamber today in the Commission. That's the only way I'm going to talk about questions that didn't sound in this hall today. Viktor Vassilyev wondered whether such a pension system was unique here in Estonia, or if it was somewhere else. In part, the Minister also replied to this today, but Tõnu Lillelaid explained to us that, as regards the linking of retirement age to life expectancy, there are already very many countries that have done so. And as far as the system becomes more solidarityable, in many European countries, the first pillar is the same size. England, for example, made the first pillar the same a few years ago. So the reform of Estonia is not something extraordinary. Ms Haukanõm asked a specific question concerning the high administrative charges applicable to the second pillar and the low performance of the funds. Tõnu Lillelaid said that an analysis was prepared on the basis of which it was intended to further limit fees. Such a legislative amendment will also reach the Riigikogu. Tiina Kangro pointed out that the figure on page 24 of the draft explanatory memorandum shows the proportion of the components of the average old-age pension in different years and, if you look at the second pillar in the figure, it is very marginal in 2016, but several times higher in 2060. The Minister as well as Tõnu Lillelaid explained this, who stated that it was important to pay attention to the number of retired people who have joined the second pillar. A very large part has not really joined. Maris Lauri expressed his opinion and the Commission supported the fact that data on who joined the second pillar and who has not joined should have been more accurate. He considered that this draft could not be processed in substance until there were no data on who the people who did not have the second pillar were and how their pension would develop. Both the Minister and Tõnu Lillelaid were prepared to provide further information. In addition, Jüri Jaanson's question was discussed in the Committee on Social Affairs. He drew attention to § 1 (2) (5) and (6) of the draft, according to which a person who has a partial or a lack of working capacity recognised under the Employment Capacity Allowance Act will be reduced by one year for each of the three full years in which he was identified as having a partial or absent capacity and will not be reduced for a period of time when the person is working at the same time as he has been identified as having a partial or absent capacity to work. Jüri Jaanson asked what would motivate people to work if the requirement for retirement was not reduced for that period. Lidia Soontak explained that the same regulation is currently in force and no changes are planned. The topic raised by Tiina Kangro also came to the discussion that changes to the pension system have not been sufficiently discussed with the people of Estonia. Jüri Jaanson noted that the opinion of those directly affected by the law should actually be sought. As the Minister pointed out here, the Confederation of Estonian Trade Unions, the Association of Estonian Fund Managers, the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Estonian Cooperation Assembly, the Association of Estonian Municipalities, the Association of Estonian Pensioners, the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People, the Confederation of Estonian Employers, the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund, the National Audit Office, the Central Organisation of the Trade Unions of Employees TALO, the Tuutunduskonduskondus Tuleva and the Office of the Chancellor of Justice were involved by the Ministry of Social Affairs. The Social Affairs Committee decided that during the procedure of this draft he would also address the Estonian Students' Association, the Estonian Open Youth Centres Association, the Estonian Youth and Estonian Competition Society. In fact, it is young people today who will live in full or in part by the new system. At least we'll inform them. So far, young people are not properly involved in discussing this draft. The Committee on Social Affairs took the following decisions: to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by today, 2 May, to propose that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for amendments be set at 10 working days. It was decided to appoint the chairman of the committee, the speaker before you. All decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U270	Good Commissioner, there are no questions for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U271	Thank you very much. Everyone is eager to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U272	Ladies and gentlemen, I will open negotiations between the political groups. The floor is held by Mr Ligi, the representative of the Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U273	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, I hope I heard wrong, I came a little later, and the minister didn't say that the bill was the work of the last year or two. This draft has in principle been approved at the Cabinet session in 2016, on most points, except for the breaking-up of the first pillar, by decoupling it from the amount of wages, which is indirectly also the payment of the tax. However, since such a fundamental change is being made with the hands of the Minister of the IRL, it is quite shocking. It is true that it was brought to the previous government by the Minister who has now left the IRL, but he has received a clear answer that we do not support this point. It was probably now a big victory for the IRL in the left-wing government. I'm sorry, but the Minister doesn't really follow the objections he's facing. Not only does he present a foreign view of the world, but he also says strange sentences. For example, he received a remark when he said that the difference in wages was amplified by the difference in pensions. No amplification! The difference is considerably decreasing. The wage difference can be 40-fold and, if the pension difference is four-fold, it is not leverage, it is a significant reduction. In general, our pension system is more solidarity-based than reflecting differences. Then the talk that has been repeatedly said that wage dependence moves away to the second pillar. Nothing moves to the second pillar! In the second pillar, everything stays the way it is. The first pillar simply takes money away from people who have been able to earn more. The fact that the first and second pillars are a whole is again an empty argument. They operate in very different ways, both psychologically and factually. And if they were going to work the same way, you wouldn't have to change this one component, you would have to change both. But they don't. It is shocking when the IRL here represents the view that wealth is being redistributed. So far, we were talking about how well the country is doing depends on the efforts of the people. And it could even be said that the difference enriches that there is not, in fact, a more motivating objective in economic terms than the possibility of becoming better economically than others. Economic efforts are very much guided by this possibility of differences. And the question is not whether young people are going to study to get a higher pension. No, of course they don't say that in that way, they say that they will ensure their future better that way. And that's completely true. At the same time, we are discussing changes in employment relations and also changes in the types of income. More and more people are optimising their income by reducing the share of wages and, for example, increasing the share of dividends, or by temporarily working. And what's to deny, in envelope wages, we've been hit back again, again we've found a way and a reason to pay more of the envelope wages. There is no prescription against such things except that a person knows that his future depends directly on how much he or she earns. That's what they say about health insurance. As regards the second pillar, the same minister's party, at least part of it, says that the second pillar should also be distributed. This already shows that there is no unity in the IRL, not to mention the pension system in the first and second pillars. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U274	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U275	They're still different things. We do not need to stress what the Minister said, that the fact that he went to work was worded differently is dependent on the pension. No, the pension still has to depend on how you work and what kind of work you do. This is an incentive for wealth creation, both on an individual level and at a social level. Some guarantees against poverty cannot, in principle, be given by the state in a different way than on the basis of the efforts of its citizens. Relative poverty is one thing, but it is precisely through great productivity and effort that the world has overcome absolute poverty. There is less and less absolute poverty in the world, despite the fact that no vigorous redistribution has actually been implemented. We still believe that the nature of man has been relatively unchanged throughout history and that otherwise he cannot be financially assured and supported by the state, if he shows that something depends on him. Equalising pensions, which is very clearly the result of this draft, is simply not appropriate. The first pillar, which is guaranteed to a person in quite proportion to the overall wage level, must also be dependent on a person's own salary, in which case he or she will think more about this aspect. And that is why, while approving the remaining points of this bill, we categorically oppose this one amendment and advise the IRL to negotiate with us on this matter. We do not rely on the Socialists and the Centre Party, which simply has a different understanding of society. Equality is the main thing for them. In our view, the possibility of a difference enriches society and enriches citizens as well. So let us change this one point, and we commend the government and praise the wise coalition partner IRL! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U276	Thank you, Mr Ligi. On behalf of the Centre Party Group, please, Marika Tuus-Laul.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U277	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister! This pension reform should not be a stranger to any of the current parliamentary parties because, as has been said, it has been prepared by the working group on promoting the sustainability of retirement pensions since 2015. I also remember these many years before, on the basis of the various studies and analyses that Praxis has done. This reform is not being carried out with regard to populism or the forthcoming elections. It must be based on reality and the perspective of the future. If we look forward to 2060 or 40 years, we will see that the number of people aged 18 to 63 in Estonia has fallen by 256000, or 32%, and the number of people aged 60 and over has increased by 106000, or 41%. The increase in the number of older people should be a source of joy, for this means that people's lives are increasing, and they have been dreaming about for centuries. At the same time, the decline in the number of young people and those of working age is a cause for concern, as people of working age are becoming fewer and fewer. Unfortunately, Estonia's previous governments have not wanted to take this problem very seriously. Although it is the same in the main direction, the pension reform of the current government is still significantly different from that of the largest opposition party, the Reform Party. This is a significant difference in the world view. We want human work to be valued in the future, not on the basis of the salary number that the Reform Party has requested, but rather on the basis of the contribution shown by the number of years worked. We consider it fair that the first pillar will in future guarantee a pension equal to that of a lawyer or a high public official for a kindergarten teacher and a savior. People have always wanted one year of work to be equal to one year of retirement. The 'Pension Year' is, of course, a popular simplified word, I mean, in fact, the insurance unit, how much someone has paid social tax on their salary. If it has been paid on average on remuneration, the annual coefficient is 1 but less, this will be reflected in small pensions in the future. Unfortunately, almost 70% of the Estonian population earns less than the average salary and they are going to receive or already receive a small pension. Yes, this reform does not concern the current pensioners, but we want to correct this mistake for the future pensioners. Of course, we can discuss details during the draft procedure. I remember Eiki Nestor, a social expert, once said that right now, he would not lose the salary from the first pillar, so he wasn't a socialist. And that's right, of course, isn't it really going away? Of course, we may ask, " If the first pillar loses the effect of pay, would it make sense to learn at all? ' Why don't you go dig a ditch and retire early? This issue has been raised indirectly today. But it's still just the first pillar. The second pillar and the optional third pillar also take into account the size of the salary. At the same time, we may also ask whether the first pillar of the future equal pension is more in the doctor's or seller's salary face. We can ask whether it will be a good pension or an equal living allowance for everyone to guarantee only a minimum income. But as we have heard from the Minister, we are preventing at least a fall in pensions. Yes, the current pensioners are indeed not affected by this bill, but they too must be brought out of poverty. One more minute, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U278	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U279	And that is why the Centre Party wants to make an extraordinary pension rise, as we have done before. We do not want Estonia to stand out in Europe with the small pensions that the right parties have unfortunately wanted for years. We call on you all to support the draft in order to avoid up to four times the difference in pensions and social stratification in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U280	Thank you, Mrs. Tuus-Laul. And now I would like to ask Monika Haukanõm as a representative of the Free Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U281	Mr President! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good minister! The Government sent the draft amendment to the State Pension Insurance Act to the Riigikogu as a long-made beauty, which at first sight has completely reasonable and positive objectives. A positive message is coming out to ensure adequate income and protection against poverty for people in retirement. But it gets more interesting when you start looking at the difference between messages and reality. Then the picture doesn't look so bright, and there's a desire to compare it with the bill of equivalence. I'm gonna bring out a few bottlenecks here. The first pillar is decoupled from the social tax and basically goes back to the so-called retirement pension established in 1936: the years worked count, not the wages earned. What message do we give to young people? Get to work right after high school! Better yet, right after middle school, you win eight years of retirement, for example! In terms of the first pillar, going to university is not useful and not a whole life supplement. So, do we value education? Why do we not include the years we have studied in higher education? Secondly, we are turning on messages that we have been quite well able to make clear to the working people over many years: it is beneficial to pay taxes honestly and not to accept envelope wages. Now, however, this motivation no longer matters, no matter how much social tax is paid on your salary. The mandatory minimum this year is 155.10 euros per month, but if your salary is paid 1000 euros per month, the amount from the first pillar of your pension will not change. So the idea of the proposed change is: in the future, the first pillar will be equally few for all. It would not make sense to switch to the first pillar of the number of years alone, so the wage component should remain, i.e. 50% of the salary and 50% of the number of years. With the second pillar, we have had sad stories for years and there is still no clear plan on how to proceed. For 15 to 16 years we have been trying to make this pillar more viable, we have tried to make administrative fees smaller and guarantee a minimum return, and our money will be invested more with the aim of reviving the Estonian economy. Some progress has, of course, been made and, for example, the volume of investment in Estonia has already increased from 5% to 11%, but this is not enough. Now it is spoken loudly that the second pillar becomes very important and that every person is responsible for himself. But we have a number of people who do not have the second pillar: it is estimated that there are 40,000 because it has not been mandatory. The second pillar is mandatory for those born in 1993 or later. But those born in the 1970s do not have the opportunity to raise enough money to receive a significant pension supplement. It's like blowing people's eyes off. Of course, savings are necessary, but the question is whether in 20 or 25 years this amount will be positive or negative. And if we have collected our own money in the second pillar, will I be able to take it out in the future as I wish? No, it's not! Can I leave the second pillar if I want to? I can't! It's not flexibility, it's compulsive. Of course, there is a need for flexibility in the system, but once again the question is whether it is being done in a way that is harmful or beneficial to people. I'll give you an example. If a person retires three years earlier, he or she now loses 14.4% of his or her pension by 16.6% under the new system. If he retires one year later, the pension will increase by 10.8%, according to the new formula only 6.5%. Retirement later becomes useful from 9 onwards. In this case, the person receives a 100.3% higher pension, currently 97.2%. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U282	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U283	Flexibility is also sought in the case of retirement age. A certain retirement age of 65 will be abolished and will be linked to life expectancy in the future. This amendment will set the way for an increase in the sneaking retirement age without amending the law, which will inevitably lead to public attention and a negative response. In the future, therefore, the retirement age can be automatically increased and people will no longer be able to know enough about it or come to the streets. Comfortable way of smoothing the retirement age, isn't it? Life expectancy in Estonia has grown rapidly and will grow further: by 2060 it is estimated that four years for women and six years for men. The plan is now to link the retirement age to the life expectancy of 82 years for women and 73 years for men. It's nine years apart. But the way we grow old, whether healthy or sick, has been overlooked. It would therefore make sense to tie the unemployment rate to healthy years, which we have on average for 55 years, and unfortunately do not show any signs of uprising. The government wants to force people to work longer at all costs, including more and more serious health problems. Once again, there is an undoubted need to bring solidarity into the pension system and to make sure that the pension gap does not grow in the future. To this end, the Free Party will certainly make proposals to amend the draft. The first pillar could be dependent on both pay and seniority at the same time; years of study could also include years of study; it could make it possible to leave the second pillar; and it could take into account the average number of years of healthy life beyond the expected life expectancy for the retirement age. Looking at the current bill, it looks like we're moving from one extreme to another. The changes planned must not be harmful to man, but they are. All that remains is that such a renewal of the pension system is like a sad game of numbers under the sign of solidarity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U284	Thank you, Mrs. Hawkhamm! Indeed, between the first and second readings, everyone has the opportunity to propose amendments. Henn Põllaas on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U285	President-in-Office of the Council. Madam Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Of course, we all understand perfectly that, in the current situation, pension reform needs to be carried out, but the question is precisely which side and how to approach it. I don't want to congratulate the Reform Party and Mr. Ligi, but I have to admit that what he said makes a lot of sense. And the shortcomings raised by his entire party are quite clear in this draft. Firstly, this equalisation of pensions. As a principle, it is beautiful, but at the same time it takes away people's motivation to pay taxes honestly, secondly to be more ambitious in life in order to get a better salary and a better pension in the future. Right now, it's really easy just to get a pro forma job somewhere, and the pension comes. Such an approach certainly cannot be sustainable. There is no doubt that people who have contributed more to society in the form of taxes must have the opportunity to receive a higher pension in the future. Similarly, linking the retirement age to life expectancy is questionable. Of course, life expectancy is increasing and it is extremely positive, but unfortunately it creates a dual situation. When we are at retirement age or so old, the more useful it is for us, the lower the average life expectancy in Estonia, the more risky our young people are to ride bikes and whatever. The sooner we retire. There's so many moments I should think about. Basically, the Conservative People's Party supports pension reform, but we really need to think through a number of things and pay more attention to these aspects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U286	Thank you, Mr. Pier. Eiki Nestor as representative of the Social Democratic Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U287	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask for more time now.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U288	Three extra minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U289	There's been a lot of talk here about the left and right sides. I'm sorry, I don't read that in any way. If I want to read a political message here, there is really one message that can be learned: the more different coalitions prepare some kind of reform, the better the result will come. Having seen the efforts of different governments to change these necessary things, I think today's draft is certainly better than what was discussed, for example, in 2015 and 2016. Secondly, it is known that all countries that are currently making pension reforms and other pension changes are simply forced to do so because they cannot foresee everything. Different countries make changes according to their own circumstances. Our greatest oversight is that in the mid-1990s, when the first pillar of public pension insurance was reformed, no one could have foreseen that wage differences would remain so large in Estonia for 20 years. The pay gap was taken into account, but no one could predict that it would remain so. The majority of countries now have a clear view that solidarity between generations during Bismarck is not enough and that people themselves must be spared for retirement. Therefore, all these calls, which have been in the press and which I have very much appreciated here, Mr Monika, was very surprised to me, to make the second pillar voluntary, are irresponsible and unmanly. This would mean a number of people at very high age with very low incomes. Please don't do this! With regard to this draft, the most substantial debate has been the debate initiated by the Reform Party: should the first pillar be linked to pay or should it have nothing to do with it? As you can see, during a certain transitional period, it is less related to pay than it is at present. And here I would like to start by saying that, honourable members of the Riigikogu, the current procedure for calculating pensions also takes into account that we have too many pay differences. And it takes into account one figure in a state pension called the basic part of a state pension. This basic element is the same for everyone, it does not depend on salary or the number of years worked. The aim of the draft is to avoid a situation where, because of the large pay gap, we will have very many pensioners in years' time who will receive a very small pension because their salaries today are very low. This situation is being improved. There are two options to choose from. First of all, to do what has been done here. The second option is to increase this equal base for all. This, however, does not even depend on the years worked. You see, this is even more equal than Jürgen Ligi's logic. The solution, which takes both sides further into account in the first pillar until 2037 is, in my opinion, completely logical and avoids the risk that some of the tax revenues that should be collected will now go underground. Look, if people have a lower pension in the future, it will not be possible to tell applicants for social security benefits who have a low income: we will not grant you the allowance because you received an envelope salary 30 years ago. Says who? Think! It's unrealistic, that's not gonna happen. All of this must therefore be taken into account now. The greatest benefit of the bill, for which I am grateful to the government and which the previous government association did not make any effort to write into this law, is linked to a flexible retirement age. All the opportunities that arise to retire early, to retire later, with the pension naturally dependent on it, to interrupt the pension, to withdraw half of the pension, are based on the person's actual situation. Hence this flexibility. Much will depend on a person's real situation. If you look at the explanatory statement and you don't get caught up in it, you really see that things change compared to the current situation, the numbers change. But you forget one thing that is most important: going to work today sooner or later does not give you the right to go to work. In other words, this solution actually makes the situation much clearer and better for people. Let us also mention the note on the years mentioned here: the average life expectancy for men and women does not differ by nine years; this difference is much smaller. These numbers 73 and 82 did not pass the factual examination. In fact, if we have a goal that our pensioners will receive a higher pension in the future, they should be called on to save more, not to engage in populism on the second pillar. I want to end with a simple example. When a person collects money, saves money to buy a TV, but suddenly it turns out the stove's out of order, the whining comes in, and the house cannot be heated in the winter, he takes his TV savings and he fixes the oven. Doesn't that make sense? When a person collects money to repair the oven, because it drives in smoke, I don't think he'll think, "Oh, on the moon, I'll open the window when the whining comes! And maybe the house won't burn down either! " And buys a new TV instead. That's what I don't believe, and that's not what you're supposed to call people. All those who present themselves today on the voluntary subject of the second pillar call on people who have raised money to repair the furnace to buy a television set. Don't do this, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U290	Thank you, Mr. Nestor. I'm closing the negotiations. The commission has proposed that the first reading of draft 613 be completed. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments to draft text 613 including 16 May at 5.15 p.m. First reading of Bill 613 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U291	Agenda item 9: First reading of the Defence Forces Service Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Act amending other laws 607. Mr Jüri Luige, the Secretary of Defense of the Speaking Chair, please waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U292	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The government will bring before you a draft law amending the law on military service and other laws. The draft complements the Defence Forces Service Act in such a way that the Defence Resources Board (KRA) and the Defence Forces have the right to derogate from the obligation of the Defence Forces in the case of holders in addition to the so far permitted coercion and criminal penalties measures limiting the validity or issue of the rights and permits granted to the person. Restrictive measures will be applied according to the draft to persons who repeatedly fail to comply with the obligation of the Defence Forces, even after the imposition of a coercion or the initiation of a misdemeanour procedure. The rights and authorisations for which the Office of Defence Resources and the Defence Forces may apply for suspension or prohibition in respect of holders of the responsibility of defence forces shall be the right to drive a motor vehicle, fishing card, hunting right, the right to drive a recreational craft and jetty, and the right to issue a weapons permit and the right to acquire weapons. The limitation of the validity or application of rights and authorisations shall be subject to the authorisation of the Administrative Court. The Office for Defence Resources or the Defence Forces can submit an application to the Administrative Court and only the Court can decide on the application of this restriction. We expect that we will achieve the objective with these steps and that the person will assume the responsibility of the Defence Forces. Subject to a court order, the administrative body concerned shall immediately cease to apply a restrictive measure if the Office for Defence Resources receives information that the person has entered into an obligation. The restrictions described in the draft act have been based on the system already in force for maintenance creditors, the restrictions applied. Therefore, the State has practice in the implementation of the respective measures. The use of restrictive measures in the event of unlawful non-compliance with the duty of military service also exists in a number of other countries. In Finland, for example, prison sentences are provided for in this case. I recall that the Estonian Ministry of Defence, the Estonian state has made a significant contribution to the resources in order to ensure that military service is treated not as a restriction but as an opportunity for development. In recent years, we have significantly improved conditions of employment: we have built new, highly modern barracks that meet Western European standards, improved catering conditions for conscripts, and significantly increased the fee for participating in the reserve training. I think it is important to stress that the introduction of new measures is not aimed at punishing persons, but rather at preventive influence. It is important that the state takes the defence force's duty as enshrined in the Constitution seriously and that professional persons do not have the opportunity to avoid it illegally. I'll finally bring in some more data in context terms. In 2017, 17% of the recruits did not appear after the first invitation to the medical committee. A total of 1031 claims were made by KRA to 710 persons, of whom only 78 appeared at the medical committee. This shows that only 11% of the evaders fulfilled their duty following repeated warnings. These are figures that indicate that this proportionate and reasonable restriction is appropriate and we believe that it should be implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U293	Thank you, Minister. You have at least one question. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U294	Good manager! Good minister! What is the reason that more and more boys do not appear on military service or medical board? Which of these measures, the withdrawal of a fishing licence or a fishing licence, I think, should not be said to have the best effect? And why shouldn't chronically-avoiding boys be sent to prison, which is good for us?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U295	Thank you. There is no doubt that the most important document for young people is the driving licence of a motor vehicle. According to our data, about 55% of those who did not show up last year have this right. So, without a doubt, the withdrawal of this right will become the strongest leverage. Why doesn't he show up? There's a lot of excuses. I believe that we do not even have the point of analysing them very thoroughly, because the law actually provides for a series of possibilities for extension, for example in relation to the situation of the family or the termination of the educational institution, i.e. when it is possible to go into military service later. So the law is quite flexible in that sense. If someone wants an extension within the framework of the law for some reasonable reason, for example, if there is a need for life, in most cases such an opportunity exists.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U296	Mrs. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U297	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, For how long is the withdrawal of several listed rights intended? If a person reaches a certain age limit, will he or she recover these rights? How has this issue been resolved?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U298	As far as the end of this restriction is concerned, it ends when a person takes up his duties, or appears, contact the Defence Resources Board and come to a medical committee. According to the law, the KRA must inform it and then the restriction will be lifted. So this is the easiest mechanism we're going to apply.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U299	Peter Ernits, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U300	Good manager! Good minister! You did not answer my question as to why Estonia is different from Finland, where our relatives live. The Finns send deserters to prison, but we're not going to come up with such a proposal. Jailhouses are in good shape on both sides.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U301	Thank you. We've analyzed all options. In Finland, for example, travel documents, or passports, are also withdrawn, which is one measure before criminal penalties. We found that this has quite a significant impact on a person's constitutional rights, including the freedom to travel. So we think that our measure is proportionate to the issue that we are trying to solve at the moment. If this measure proves to be completely ineffective, we must, of course, consider other solutions. At this stage, we do not see this need, including the need to implement the threat of criminal penalties or criminal penalties.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U302	Mrs. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U303	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I'm sorry if that's what we're talking about, but I'm still gonna go over it. Is there any impact analysis or experience from another country on the extent to which this withdrawal of permits and rights gives rise to a positive effect?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U304	As far as comparative analysis is concerned, different countries have different practices and there is no very good reference material. We put this topic in the purely Estonian context. We asked what would be the most appropriate and proportionate leverage in order not to go to the most radical steps, as is the case in Finland, for example. Given the importance of the issue of driving licences in the lives of young people and everyone else, we are quite certain that taking it away is quite an effective argument.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U305	Johannes Kert, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U306	Thank you! I think that the list of skills and other added value acquired during military service, which a young man or a woman can bring along in the way of life, is long enough. You mentioned that the removal of the travel document would be a constitutional barrier. I would like to remind you here that the duty of military service, both military service and subsequent calls for service, is the constitutional duty of a citizen. The retention of a travel document would also be quite proportionate to the non-compliance with the constitutional obligation.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U307	Thank you. We do not believe that there is any constitutional interference with this proposal, but I understand what you have said.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U308	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U309	Thank you. I'm coming to the same constitutional barricade. In the case of Finland, it is as if the passport is taken away from the military service, but we do not have a constitutional barrier when driving licences, weapons licences, fishing rights, etc. are taken away, which is essentially the same thing. All the more so since it can actually be considered a multiple punishment for one infringement, which, in my understanding, is certainly a violation of the Constitution. Wouldn't it still be easier to impose a specific penalty for a specific infringement of higher fines, or really a prison sentence, so that it is completely uniform and clear that there are no possibilities for different interpretations here?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U310	Thank you. As always with this type of law, where we impose some kind of restrictions or coercive measures on citizens, proportionality is important ♪ how we assess their actions and what we believe are the minimum coercive measures that we should take to ensure that they take up their responsibilities. Our assessment now is that it is an optimal coercive measure. As I said, if, after a while, it turns out that this will absolutely not help and will not change anything, then we will certainly start a debate on other measures as well. However, we believe, given the great role that the right of leadership plays in people's lives, that this is quite an effective step on the part of our country.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U311	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U312	Mr. Minister! I also believe that this is a very effective step, but there are certain legal problems here. See, the withdrawal of all these other rights is limited resource rights, for example, parking rights on the streets of Tallinn. And if you could come up with this idea, maybe I would. But there are certain professional and qualification certificates that fall under another section of the Constitution. The right to drive is certainly not a right to use a limited resource. How come your ministry lawyers haven't seen any legal distinction between these things at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U313	We have tried to analyse this subject in a relatively detailed way. Therefore, we have also assessed possible measures differently, whether or not they are optimal. In this case, we do not see any contradiction with the Estonian Constitution. I also recall what I said in my speech that the restrictions described in the draft have been based on the restrictions already in force for maintenance creditors. So we use it as a precedent. According to statistics provided by the Road Administration, decisions to suspend the right to drive have been taken 131 times in relation to maintenance issues. So this is a pretty common practice within the framework of another law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U314	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U315	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! According to the pacifists, an increase in the fine would clearly be a function of the State Treasury and nothing else. But was this also an argument that many of the guardians of military service are dependent and thus the obligation to pay the fine falls on parents? Was that an argument?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U316	Let us just say that these fines have not had the necessary effect. And I believe that, in principle, there should also not be a situation in which a person can buy himself out of military duty by using the resources at his disposal. We still need to use a number of measures to achieve the necessary end result.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U317	George Adams, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U318	I believe that the issue of maintenance money, this bad example of this, will probably have to be a legal dispute, which could indeed have been an example for you, which does not, of course, mean that your lawyers should have followed it. My second question is that I listened to your presentation in the room, where you referred to these things as generic preventive measures. When I was in school, I did not know that the word 'preventive' would have any meaning other than 'preventive' in Estonian. In this case, what does it prevent, or was it a glitch in your tongue?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U319	Thank you. This measure is not intended as a criminal measure; it is intended as a coercive measure. Indeed, this is a step that will be taken after the distraction has not taken up its responsibilities, even though it has been repeatedly warned.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U320	Urve Tiidus, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U321	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. My question is a little bit of an idealism, but I remembered a meeting where girls or women in the Finnish army were the subject. They want to join the army there. What should happen to join the military service in a kind of prestigious or desirable way? Maybe it's too idealistic, but I'm still asking.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U322	Thank you. That is, in my opinion, a very appropriate question. As far as the girls are concerned, we strongly favour them also in the case of the Estonian Defence Forces. Of course, they volunteer to join the military service. They have no obligation. For example, when we look at students attending national defence classes in schools, there are mostly girls. At some point, they clearly have doubts as to whether they want to continue to pursue this area of interest, because the percentage of women entering the service is really low. But we're always trying to think through the possibilities to raise the prestige of military service. I also wish to come up with a separate package, as is the case in many other countries, where the conscript has certain advantages, for example, in winning the competition for the National Agency, when two candidates are equal in other characteristics (education, vocational skills, etc.). So this is also a subject that we will definitely be dealing with.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U323	Mr. Secretary of Defense, there are no further questions for you. Thank you. I call on Mr Ants Laaneots, Member of the National Defence Committee, to pass on the position of the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U324	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Colleagues! Mr. Secretary of Defense! The National Defence Committee discussed this draft before the first reading in this Chamber with Deputy Secretary of State for Defence Planning of the Ministry of Defence Meelis Oidsalu, Head of Defence Service Department Anu Rannaveski and other officials of the Ministry of Defence at its meeting on 12 April. The draft was also directly related to the meeting of the National Defence Commission on 10 April, where Margus Pae, Director General of the Defence Resources Board, provided information on the summoning of professional persons for military service, on the implementation of sanctions and on the preparation of the Defence Resources Board for the implementation of this draft as a law. According to the draft, the Defence Forces and the Defence Resources Board, as the Minister has already explained here, will be able to apply to the Administrative Court for suspension of the right to drive a motor vehicle, the right to fly a recreational craft and the right to jettison, the permit to acquire a weapon, the fishing card and the validity or issue of the right to hunt, but I would stress that until such time as a person fulfils his duty to the State. In doing so, these measures are applied only by a decision of the administrative court and are rather an exception which is used repeatedly, in particular, to holders who have not been subject to other measures provided for in law, such as injunctions, fines and coercion. The decision to grant or suspend the authorisation and the right shall be taken by an administrative body competent to grant or issue the authorisation. For example, after receiving a corresponding order from the administrative court, the Public Road Administration will carry out the necessary action to suspend the right to drive a motor vehicle. In addition to the Defence Forces Service Act, parts of other laws concerning the procedures for applying for and validity of the rights and permits referred to therein are supplemented. According to § 124 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, all citizens are obliged to take part in national defence on the basis and according to the procedure laid down by the Act. The defence capabilities of the Estonian state are based on the reserve army, we do not have a professional army, made up of persons trained in military service, whose skills are preserved and supplemented by educational gatherings. Therefore, the draft under discussion is important for national defence and security and the measures envisaged to ensure the obligation of national defence are necessary. These measures are not new in themselves; they are similar to the measures imposed by existing legislation on maintenance creditors or alimony creditors. Procedural decisions. At the meeting of 12 April this year, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu that the draft law under discussion be included on the agenda of the Riigikogu for the first reading of today's sitting and to propose that the Riigikogu stop the first reading. I was appointed rapporteur for the Commission. In addition, at this meeting, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose a deadline for the submission of draft amendments in accordance with the law, including 16 May at 5.15 p.m. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U325	Thank you, Mr. Laane. You have at least one question. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U326	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! You have just referred to the section of the Constitution, which falls under this obligation for all citizens. However, we are talking about the possibility for girls to join the service on a voluntary basis. This is a perfectly understandable gesture, but did anyone in the Commission have a question as to why a similar obligation would not be imposed on female citizens?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U327	We haven't had a direct discussion about this. But I think that the Commission's male composition only supports 100% of women's or girls' service on a voluntary basis. We have over 60,000 military reservists, we have enough men. Why would women get in there coercive?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U328	Thank you, good waitress. No further questions for you. I will open negotiations for representatives of the political groups. Tarmo Kruusimäe, IRL faction, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U329	Good vice chairman! I like the system that I want, I'll take the floor. If the rest of the group is not present, at least I am and will talk. We are forgetting a moment in this debate. Very many of us communicate with different circles, and so do I. The question has arisen: If a young man states that he is not spiritually balanced in order to be in military service, how is he balanced enough to be in traffic? This means that we have potential murderers in traffic: they are not balanced, they can get excited, they can go into an affective state and act irrationally. Let me remind you how many people have died in military service, how many people have died in traffic, and how many others have died in missions. I spoke almost 15 years ago as the leader of the nationalist community so that it would be more reasonable for us to send all young people on a mission before driving school. When a young person has returned from his mission, his leg is no longer so heavy he still doesn't go to a 190 curve because he knows what value life really is. And what's really weird is that we're talking about a weapons permit today when a person hasn't been trained in weapons. It would be exactly the same debate if we were to say that everyone can drive a car and not drive a driver's license, and the person is driving a car. In fact, people who have contributed to the protection of Estonia every day have the question of why the person who can bring proof is in a more favourable position. I'll just get you a joke. The young man goes to the war commissariat and says we'll bet 3,000 euros that I'm fit for military service. This means that some people will have no advantage and no share, but if we have a conflict, every person is important to us. The fact that we have not been able to make an army service attractive for girls is a matter of image design. The girls have not spoken to the girls in the language of the girls. We here as elderly people think we can do this too, but obviously they have their own thoughts about what they've gone through, and they can say them themselves. I've agitated a lot of girls to join the Defence League. If they've said they don't want to stick in the mud, I've told them we have a cyber defence alliance. That means you're gonna be trained and start writing your own parts of the program. You're working according to your training, you don't have to be in the mud. You can have beautiful artificial nails, you can have beautiful makeup, and you can have a nice snip. You can go ahead and hang out, but you've done your part. Maybe it's a myth that a public defender is in the mud all the time, mouth full of moss, it's not like that anymore. With the Cyber Security Act, we've been talking about the future wars being fought in a completely different place. I think we have a lot of inventive women whose contribution we simply cannot apply. It's the same subject that IT College writes so boring ads that even a fly doesn't want to smear that ad. That way, we're not gonna get the 7,000 I.T. people we need. We allow young ones to speak their own language and talk about our need. If cyber wars are the future, then we must prepare for it. I find that at the computer, women are more conscientious than men. That's why men can have physical strength, women can have our cyber security. I am in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U330	Thank you, Mr. Kruusimäe! There are no more speakers, I will close the negotiations. The Governing Commission's proposal is to conclude the first reading of draft 607. The first reading is closed and I will set the deadline for the submission of the 607 amendments, including 16 May at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U331	Now we are going to the last, tenth item on the agenda, and this is the first reading of the Act on Arms, Strategic Goods, Explosives and Other Laws Amendment Act 615 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Waitress Secretary of Defense Jüri Luik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U332	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic will bring before you the draft approved by the Government at its meeting on 5 April, the Act on Arms, the Act on Strategic Goods, the Act on Explosives and the Act on the Amendment of Other Acts. The purpose of this draft is to provide the domestic defence industry with a legal basis for the handling of military weapons, ammunition and ammunition. Handling includes all possible points of contact during the life cycle of weapons, ammunition and ammunition, from manufacturing, transport and storage to maintenance, repair and destruction. Giving companies located in Estonia the opportunity to handle military weapons and munitions allows the Defence Forces to manage their arms more efficiently, on the one hand, and defence industry companies, on the other hand, to expand their activities and offer their products outside Estonia. The draft amends a total of 13 laws. I'll bring in some major legislative changes. The Arms Act gives companies the opportunity to handle weapons of war, ammunition and ammunition suitable for them. To this end, the undertaking must apply for authorisation and authorisation to operate. The licence gives the company the right to engage in military weapons, ammunition or munitions of war. The operating licence gives the company the right to handle military weapons at a factory or warehouse, for example. The authorisation procedure is similar in nature to the regulation laid down in the Explosives Act. The largest part of the draft consists of a chapter on the handling of military weapons, ammunition and ammunition by private parties included in the Arms Act. The draft lays down requirements for the undertaking, its owners, its managers, the persons responsible and the staff involved. A number of restrictions are imposed on this arms and ammunition handling company compared to normal business. This law limits bankruptcy and enforcement proceedings. For example, a bailiff cannot arrest or sell weapons of war, military ammunition, or munitions of war. In addition, a separate regulation will be introduced for background checks on the suitability of owners, drivers and employees, which will be carried out by the Police and Border Guard Board. An undertaking may not be authorised, for example, if it is suspected that its owners or managers are involved in any form in illegal activities. The amendment of the Strategic Goods Act lays down requirements for the demilitarisation of military weapons. Compliance will be assessed and certificates issued by the Defence Forces. A list of strategic goods permitted to be demilitarised and technical requirements shall be drawn up by the Government by means of a separate regulation. The Explosives Act provides for an examination of the competence of companies handling explosives, as well as an assessment of the person's competence. Its purpose is to determine whether an explosive and ammunition handler has the necessary skills to do so. It also establishes an effective monitoring system, including the control of the activities of legal and natural persons handling military goods. I would like to thank here both the Technical Surveillance Authority, the Ministry of the Interior, the Defence Police Department and the Police and Border Guard Board, who have developed this effective and, at the same time, non-excessive system of supervision with the Ministry of Defence and the Defence Forces. I would also like to thank the Estonian Defence Industries Association for its cooperation in developing the draft, including in assessing the economic impact of the draft. In general, we and the Estonian Defence Industry Association appreciate that the adoption of this law would have an exceptionally positive impact on the development of the Estonian defence industry. According to today's information, there are already five or six companies ready to start production in Estonia. We estimate that another one or two companies could be added each year. Changing the legal framework also creates prerequisites for bringing additional foreign investments into Estonia, as well as opening up more opportunities for exporting Estonian defence industrial goods to foreign countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U333	Thank you, Minister. You have questions too. Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U334	The export of weapons also relates to the security services provided by Estonia, such as the international ship protection service. For years, unfortunately, it has been a serious obstacle to the operation of the export of ship protection services, and I note that there has been no reaction to this, that security companies have not been able to legally bring semi-automatic weapons into the territory of Estonia and sell them, realise them, etc. This requires a very expensive storage service in third and fourth countries, which reduces competitiveness. How will this problem be resolved in the end? The introduction of semi-automatic weapons into the territory of Estonia and their removal from Estonia by security companies is part of Estonia's defence export.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U335	Thank you. In my opinion, these legislative changes do not deal with the subject you have just put on the table. I have to admit that I am not very competent on this issue either, so I owe you an answer right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U336	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U337	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Within the framework of this bill, a sufficiently effective monitoring system has been proposed, and enough, I dare even say, a prudent and predictable ex ante control system. Is and how much bureaucracy will increase in the implementation of this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U338	Thank you. The volume of bureaucracy, of course, is increasing. We analyzed it quite in detail, but we didn't see any alternative. We still have to take into account that these are weapons and explosives and background checks must be quite comprehensive. The Ministry of the Interior will deal with this mainly. As a result of the budget negotiations, the Ministry of the Interior has been allocated the corresponding resources to meet the requirements of this law in the last RES.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U339	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U340	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Estonia, when it adopts this law, will enter more boldly or forcefully this area, which is among the first three business sectors in the world. The weapons industry will be there if I'm not mistaken. Here's my question. We are always complaining that private companies do not invest very much in R &amp; D. Could this law also lead to an increase in investment in R &amp; D in this area, which is referred to here as combat vehicles, ammunition, ammunition, weapons, etc.?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U341	Thank you. That's for sure. After all, it is clear that all companies that start up on the territory of Estonia and are indeed talking about companies located on the territory of Estonia must also guarantee that they have engineers, specialists and experts in the respective area. So this know-how, which has already begun to disappear from Estonia, will hopefully come back here step by step. And there is no doubt that this will allow companies, such as Estonian companies operating in the international defence industry market, to offer their products better and cheaper, so that they will also show good results with other products in the international competition. So I believe that such opportunities are most welcome. We must take into account that Estonian companies still produce explosives equipment, but they do so in Belgium, France and several other countries, and it is quite clear that it will be much more expensive than in Estonia. And it is also quite clear that, in order to be constantly at the level of the arms industry, the world's industry is developing at an extraordinary rate, and if it is to be produced for export, research and development must also be carried out at all times. Even if they want to sell to the Estonian Defence Forces. We also buy only the best goods: what is competitive in terms of both price and quality.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U342	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U343	Thank you. This is certainly a very welcome draft, but I believe that you have also looked at the relevant laws of other countries, such as Finnish laws, when drafting it. Does it not seem to you that, broadly speaking, our draft is, in a sense, over-regulated, that these requirements, provisions and controls are extremely strict, which in turn may hinder the competitiveness of Estonian defence industries to some extent?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U344	Thank you. We have analysed this draft quite thoroughly with the Defence Industries Association and we have been in constant contact with them. We also analysed practices in other countries. There is a lot of legally complex issues here. For example, the same possibility of a company producing weapons going bankrupt. Then the classic method of receivership, which is done for other companies, cannot be applied; however, it is necessary to look at where these weapons go. These weapons can't automatically go into bankruptcy. There must be some procedure for the legal solution to this issue. There are many of these examples. So this bill, although very long, is far from purely bureaucracy. It deals with real situations where there may be legal contradictions between ordinary production and legislation and this very specific subject. By comparison, although I admit that this comparison in no way is one hundred percent appropriate, one can cite the regulation of financial institutions as an example. In the case of financial institutions, it is also the case that the very many legal procedures that we apply to the rest of the industrial and service sectors cannot be applied automatically there.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U345	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U346	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, It is known that one of the problems facing defence industries has been to obtain loans from banks. Is and to what extent the draft law addressed the possibility for these industrial companies to obtain loans from banks more easily?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U347	Thank you. A specific bill does not deal with it, but the subject itself exists. There are a number of banks that are very sceptical about lending defence companies. As a rule, there are a variety of policy considerations here, as generally defence companies are economically well-off and stable debt repayers. So this issue is not so much about the economy as it is about public policy in very many countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U348	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U349	Thank you! Good waitress! I understand we have an opportunity to start producing land mines. In the light of this, I ask whether it is time for Estonia to suddenly leave the Convention on the Prohibition of Landmines, if it is to see that our neighbouring countries have not joined it. To whom we would still produce these land mines here, if not for our own protection.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U350	Thank you. This question is more to my good colleague, Foreign Minister Mikser, but my personal opinion is that if the Estonian state has made such a commitment, I see no reason to withdraw from it now. There is no development here that would require the use of anti-personal mines of this type, to be precise. There are many other solutions and technical possibilities. So I believe that there is no need to leave this convention now.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U351	Henn Põllamaas, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U352	Thank you. Of course, the whole area and the laws governing the defence industry have a very clear specificity. But it was a little unclear to me that if we compare this bill on our table with the respective laws of other countries, either it is equal to the others or it is much tougher. Where would you put it in comparison?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U353	Thank you. I have to admit, I don't know how to answer you by country. If there's any interest in such an analysis, we can present it. But I believe that these are the limitations of the optimal law in our circumstances. Let's take a look at the other side. Of course, the interests of the defence industry, including the export interest, and the activities, are very important, but we also want to avoid, in any case, a situation where something happens to an explosive plant, for example, we must categorically rule out this possibility. We are talking about large quantities, so we are also talking about potential risks. So in this sense, certain restrictions, licences, operating permits and background checks are perfectly logical. It's nothing dramatic either. I believe, for example, that it is perfectly logical to carry out background checks on persons to whom we grant the right to operate weapons on the territory of Estonia and not only about pistols. It is right that such restrictions exist.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U354	Igor Gräzin, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U355	If you don't mind, I'll come back to that mine talk. I mean, the peculiarity of a mine is that it is a strictly defensive weapon. And the other thing that characterizes a mine is that it's extremely cheap. It's not for nothing to say that a mine is a poor man's weapon. I'd like to ask about that, too. Since there is a whole series of mines better than mines, perhaps the minister could name what kind of protective equipment they are. And can we compare their cost to what is a better and cheaper protective device than a mine?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U356	Thank you. If we read this Convention on the Prohibition of Anti-Personal Mines, we will see that very many mines, such as anti-tank and anti-tank mines, which are undoubtedly weapons of military influence and force that are extremely serious, are, of course, allowed. I don't have it in front of the convention, or I'd quote, right now I'm just talking about memory. You can't always look at cheap. For example, a chemical weapon is generally one of the cheapest tools, but it is not suitable for moral reasons under international law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U357	Mr. Secretary of Defense, there are no further questions for you. Thank you. Now I would like to ask Margus Tsahkna, member of the National Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U358	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! The draft law amending the Weapons Act and other laws is one very important initiative with which the Government has come before the Riigikogu. Minister of Defence Jüri Luik gave a very thorough overview of the content of this bill. I would like to stress here in the Riigikogu's speech some of the things that have been under discussion both in the Commission and in the wider sense, because the preparation of this law has been going on for over a year. In fact, for various reasons, perhaps because the Estonian state has evolved significantly since we regained our independence, we have become more mature and we have more trust in our own institutions, and that is particularly important, as well as other partners, we are increasingly trusted by our defence industry in recent years, particularly in those areas called soft areas, such as cyber defence. However, the laws in the Estonian country have so far been prohibited from dealing in private business with ammunition and combat weapons. Under these circumstances, it is not really possible to talk about the serious development and competitiveness of our own defence industry. I am therefore very pleased that the Ministry of Defence, in cooperation with the Estonian Defence Industries Association and Estonian companies, has worked very hard to introduce these regulations for our legal space and cultural space, so that we can also develop this specific area. There are three major aspects that I believe should also be addressed in the Riigikogu discussions. The first is certainly that one of our own industries, the same defence industry, can develop so that Estonian companies can become part of where our taxpayers' money is invested. Very simply, more than 200 million euros per year and more in the future is the amount that the Estonian state invests through various procurements. As you know very well, I have always given as an example that when car manufacturers sell cars, they are very happy when someone buys a car. But you have certainly noticed that even more effort is being made to ensure that the maintenance of this car takes place at the same agency, the same company of the car manufacturer. The car manufacturer gives the car a guarantee, but the other way around, a lot of this resource goes to the maintenance of the same car. It's exactly the same with the arms industry. One side is when we get expensive and highly necessary weapons systems, but the other side of the procurement will certainly be connected to the same maintenance, the same ongoing activity, especially with regard to combat technology, which will last for decades to remain in Estonia. In this hall, too, questions were raised today as to whether this would lead, for example, to investments in the development of the Estonian defence industry, i.e. research investments. Yeah, sure. This is one of the very important steps that the Riigikogu can take in order for our own companies to be able to mobilise resources in research development, to make these investments, and international corporations to bring their production to Estonia. Estonia has been a white spot here. The second issue, perhaps less discussed in this Chamber today, is whether, strategically, we also need an independent production capacity to ensure and develop our own defence capabilities. We're talking about the production of ammunition and weapons. It is no secret that the current government has made, adopted and also implements a separate programme in addition to 2%, which invests specifically in the enhancement of independent battle capabilities, defence capabilities. Over the next few years, at least EUR 20 million will be invested annually in addition to what has already been planned, thick and smart ammunition. My wish is this, and this plan was also discussed by the National Defence Committee, so that this law would be passed here in the Riigikogu before going on summer holidays. Today, large-scale and long-term procurements are taking place in Estonia and every day, when the adoption of this law is delayed, our defence industry, as well as the Estonian economy, loses considerable amounts. The National Defence Committee also had such a highly estimated view that what would happen if this law were to apply, for example, on 1 January next year. This would mean that a whole series of complicated just background checks, permits to be granted would be further delayed. This may mean almost EUR 15 million less money for our specific defence companies, and this is only a very small amount compared to what we will see in the future. So the independent ability to produce and maintain weapons right here in Estonia is another aspect. The third issue is much wider. This is that we have been able to invest at least 2% in the protection of the Estonian state for a long time, and over 2% in recent years, without any complaining and with very strong social support. This is my personal position, i.e. I do not express the position of the National Defence Committee, but in fact the needs are even greater. And I do not rule out that we will be debating whether there is still a need to increase the cost of defence before the next Riigikogu elections in society and between political parties. At least part and a significant part of these defence expenditures would go through taxes to the development of our own economy, our own business and our own other benefits. This is a separate value, which we have not really been talking about in the debate on defence spending so far. I want to thank all those people who have been in preparation for this complicated law. A very important aspect, which was also emphasised by the Minister of Defence, is that the supervision of companies that will work with weapons systems that will produce them and whose territory, whose custody they will be, must be well thought out. They must be well controlled. Figuratively speaking, if one of the CV90 combat machines is decided to get somewhere near Tallinn to drive all the way to Toompea, then let's be honest, stopping it with an ordinary police patrol is impossible. So these aspects are also thought through in this law. It is also good that the Government of the Republic has provided the necessary financial resources for the enforcement of this law in its budget strategies for the coming years, at least this information was given to the National Defence Commission. And now for procedural decisions. The National Defence Committee discussed this draft at its meeting on 16 April. It was decided to consensually propose to the Riigikogu Board that the corresponding draft be included on the agenda of the Riigikogu for the first reading and to propose that the Riigikogu conclude the first reading of the draft. The rapporteur for the Commission was appointed here. At the same meeting, we also decided by consensus to propose that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 5.15 p.m. on 16 May. We would like to emphasise that very close cooperation has been with the Defence Industries Association and that the ministries involved, in particular the Ministry of the Interior alongside their respective agencies, have been working on this issue. So it is up to us to make sure that this rather large-scale draft is indeed also very correct and can be adopted as soon as possible, because it is for the sake of national security and also economic development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U359	Thank you, Mr. Tsahkna! You have at least one question. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U360	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good Margus! I will ask a question from one of my fellow Members, which he asked the Minister of Defence. How would you feel about allowing private security companies to import semi-automatic weapons? A lot of people think that a lot of security companies are more like semi-legal armory on the fifth column.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U361	Thank you for your question. This is not the subject that was discussed in the Committee on National Defence, but this is my personal position. If we read this voluminous law, it may also be a private security company, if it meets the requirements and if it puts its specific purpose in the production of weapons, handling. As the Minister mentioned here, it is very precisely defined what he can actually do with these weapons. And if he meets these requirements, I understand that it doesn't matter whether he's providing any other service. If he or she meets these requirements, if his or her board and seat are in Estonia, if all his or her employees who are in contact with weapons undergo background checks, i.e. they are reliable, if he or she applies for and receives a licence, then he or she has the right to engage in the field of business freedom. I understand that my colleague's question was more about another problem. But this particular bill isn't here on your desk. It introduces legal regulation in principle so that private sector companies can handle weapons and munitions in Estonia at all. So this is a broader regulation.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U362	Johannes Kert, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U363	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would like to thank the waitress for her thorough presentation. I'm just gonna ask you a second for the last question. It has to be said that today, the battlefield is changing the way it is around us. We can see that the battlefield is also privatized and that private companies have taken up the battlefield, but that's why. Instead of spreading taxpayers' money around the world, we are going to invest more in our home country because of the development of a domestic military industry. Even if the price is equal or much higher, taxes will be collected in Estonia, which will help solve the social problems here. The military industry in Estonia restores research potential, the scientific community, as well as domestic engineering and technical personnel. Ammunition and spare parts from Estonia are the dream of a Defence Forcesman and care is, of course, a strong supporter of our economy. The only question to you is why you think this is only happening 27 years after Estonia regained its independence.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U364	Thank you, good questioner! All that you said in the introduction to your question is very concretely summarised effects. That's a good question. I have to admit that when I started working as Minister of Defence, there was a specific issue of making an agreement with the Estonian Defence Industry Association and defence industry companies on very specific matters. We signed a two-year cooperation agreement. So it was one of the subjects that came to the table. I have to admit, I didn't know about this before, it wasn't a very public debate, and I was surprised by that. I can even understand that historically. At the beginning of the 1990s, political stability in our region was a very difficult story, rather fearing all kinds of weapons and ammunition and the delivery of private companies to them. Maybe it was just a sign of this era. I also recall that the Russian troops were still in Estonia for years after the restoration of our independence. After all, the first official gun deal of the Estonian state, or real purchase, brought along a very large social storm, which our critics also used very intensively. I think a few years, maybe ten years ago, would have been even better, but I'm glad this bill is finally here. And my personal view is that we should not be afraid if the citizens of the Republic of Estonia have rights, skills, training and also a sense of responsibility in dealing with weapons and ammunition. This is actually the hallmark of one free nation, not the other way around. To be honest, I have also seen in the debates in the Riigikogu in recent years that this topic is being looked at more and more confidently, from the perspective of the free people. This development of our own weapons industry is one example that we trust our companies and, on the other hand, we have faith in our institutions that can guarantee supervision and control.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U365	Dear waitress, you have no further questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U366	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U367	I will open negotiations for representatives of the political groups. Please, as representative of the Group of the Igor Gräzin Reform Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U368	Dear Vice-Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, I represent my group and, in fact, someone else. I am one of the authors of one of the most liberal Estonian arms laws. The explanatory memorandum to this arms law began with the words: 'The weapon is the hallmark of a free man. " So Enn Tarto and I started writing the arms laws. And then what happened? During the debate, both here and in the future, we have always bounced on the restrictions that this and that weapon must not be used when the weapon goes into the hands of people, what happens then, etc. And now, 25 years later, we can say that the more people have weapons, the more peaceful and secure society is. It's the weapon that guarantees peace. It's the weapon that guarantees national security and national security. And I am very pleased to see that at last we are now going towards the fact that the arms law is once again becoming more humane and that the attitude towards weapons is also becoming more normal. Now let's move on to the question that I'm raising and about which I'd say full discretion. I mean, I've been involved in this myself, and I know people who do things like international security. A famous Harvard University article has appeared: 'The Rise of the Modern Private Security Industry [... ]'. The main point is that the modern arms industry is not only iron dies, cannons and gunpowder, one part of the weapons economy is people, or private security companies. Let's take a notional example. A security company that operates ship security in the Indian Ocean, on the east bank of Africa, anywhere. This security company belongs, for example, to a person who has been a member of the Riigikogu, the chairman of the kapo commission or a police officer. Ship security is a private service and there is a market for it. Estonia is terribly competitive here, because the security guards employed by Estonians and the Estonians themselves are very good at these things. They are well trained, motivated and well paid. But now there's a problem. They are Estonians and they are an Estonian company, i.e. they do not live anywhere in Africa, Somalia or the jungles of Brazil, but live in Estonia. And that means they're not on a mission, but they're on a job, foam or Method, ponimaješ? They go there, they come back, they go again and so on. The question now is, if they get out of there, what about their guns? They are all allowed into civil circulation, but they cannot bring these weapons, their tools, to Estonia for the simple reason that our arms law prohibits it. In fact, we're talking about civilian weapons that are forced to store for what kind of money the devil knows in what countries and warehouses. It is well known that the weak point of Estonian security is the lack of the possibility of storing weapons at home, and so these last funds are squeezed out. That's the question. I mean, when we talk about the connection of our arms law to Estonian exports and we leave production aside, all this has been said, it has been written very well. But understand, the economy is not iron. The 21st century is a century of services, and the arms law must speak not only of a weapon but also of a man alongside a weapon. And if we can understand that at the level of the 21st century, we'll say that the law of weapons... I'm asking for a little extra time!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U369	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U370	...in order to improve, we must also consider that we have one market segment where we are competitive, where we can provide a service. Some kind of folk artists and don't know who and this unfortunate Indian story, thank God it ended with total exceptions. In fact, Estonian security guards are highly valued and respected, whatever. So, once we went to open up the law on weapons and we went out, wouldn't it be the right time to think about this problem, which is part of the arms-related economy? That was the problem. Now another thing that came up about the mines. I very much liked the defence minister's answer, and I can only agree that this was becoming clearer. One of the crappy places was that when we had this anti-mine convention ratified here at the time, Mr. Mikser was the Minister of Defence, I don't remember any military argument that would have sounded from this remote control. Whether the mine is cheap or expensive, useful or not, the Secretary of Defense didn't talk. The Secretary of Defense said they'll be banned forever around the world. And there was also a reference to Princess Diana's corresponding movement. In other words, at least that time we fell into an anti-mine convention for non-military reasons. I can't control it because I don't have anywhere to take this protocol, but I don't remember any military argument about mine containment. But I very much agree that this is actually an area that deserves to be developed. If the Russians do not have this restriction, then the logical question is whether or not we need this convention. And that, by the way, for the matter, behind you, in a place where we still have a historical know-how, workshops at the Tallinn Mine Harbour So I think it is very appropriate that this issue has arisen. All I'm saying is that the law is going in the right direction, the law is doing the right thing, and there's nothing left but supporting. And I think the time has come for us to start talking about weapons without panic as it is appropriate for free people to talk about weapons. Thank you to those who prepared this bill! Let's talk, let's see: anything can be improved. And I admit, good things can't happen at the same time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-02_U371	Thank you, Mr Gräzin. I'm closing the negotiations. The commission has proposed that the first reading of draft 615 be completed. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the tabling of amendments to draft 615 including 16 May at 5.15 p.m. We have exhausted today's agenda. Have a nice Wednesday night. Closure of the sitting at 7.20 p.m.
