ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! If we get a little quieter in the buzzing, we can start the 4th working week Thursday session of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu. As always at the beginning of the sitting, everyone has the opportunity to hand over drafts or enquiries. Please! There is no request for referral of drafts or enquiries. Before we go to the presence check, please have your attention. There's a message to give. Indeed, today, after the plenary session has ended, there will be a meeting in this Chamber of the Estonian-Romanian parliamentary group, convened by Terje Trei. So look up Terje Trei at the end of the sitting to form an Estonian-Romanian parliamentary group. But now the presence check. 76 members of the Riigikogu registered as presently absent from the 25 members of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U2	We are going to the agenda items for today. The first item is the draft law on amendments to the arms law initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws 494. The second reading is presented by Uno Kaskpeit, Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U3	Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen, I will give an overview of the second reading of the draft law amending the arms law and related amendments to other laws. The draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 11 September last year. The first reading took place on 27 September last year and the deadline for tabling amendments was 18 October. In total, 34 amendments were tabled to the Committee on Legal Affairs, but during the course of the work the Committee on Legal Affairs, as well as other amendments, so that 46 of them came together. The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the draft before the second reading at five meetings: 7 November, 15 January, 22 January, 23 January and 5 February. So I will now give a brief overview of this long debate. On 7 November last year, the amendments were first examined and the debate was simply held. Decisions on any such amendment were not adopted and it was decided to continue the debate at the next Commission meeting. The next meeting was held on 15 January. Marju Aibast, Adviser to the Department of Law Enforcement and Criminal Policy of the Ministry of Interior, and Teo Niklus, Head of the Development Department of the Police and Border Guard Board. First, the three proposals submitted by the Ministry of the Interior were examined, fully taken into account and followed up. The fourth proposal concerned the gas sprayer, the gas pistol and the gas revolver. In the course of the debate, it was disregarded, supported by a majority and 3 members opposed. In general, these sessions took a long time. I will not touch on all the points of these first sittings, or we will be sitting here till 2:00. A number of decisions were not taken at this session either, and on many points the Ministry was given time to draw up its position and the debate and decision was postponed to the next session. I'm going quietly. There was a big debate about silencers. Several questions were postponed because the Commission did not have an overview. The question arose as to which countries were allowed silencers in the first place. The Ministry of the Interior gave the Commission a small overview of the countries in which they were authorised between the two meetings. In our nearest country, Latvia, silencers are only allowed on long firearms for hunting purposes. France was then mentioned, where there is no regulation, and silencers can be acquired and held without a weapons permit. In Germany silencers are permitted in certain areas, they can be used in hunting grounds, such as Bavaria, where there is more active hunting activity. In Finland, Silencers are considered to be part of a firearm and their possession and possession are permitted under a weapons permit. It is also permitted in Denmark only on the basis of an authorisation. Then there was a longer debate on laser sights, and there was an overview of them as well. For example, in Bulgaria the use of laser sights is not regulated or prohibited at all. In Latvia, the purchase and possession of laser sights is permitted, and in Norway, these devices may be owned and held with permission. In Finland, laser sights are also not considered as part of a firearm and are not regulated by law. In Germany, laser sightings are permitted on the basis of a weapons permit. This was a small review by the Commission for the next sitting. The next meeting was held on 22 January. In addition to the members of the Legal Affairs Committee, Veiko Kombusaar, Head of the Order and Criminal Policy Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, Marju Aibast, Legal Adviser of the same department, Teo Niklus, Head of the Development Department of the Police and Border Guard Board, Henn Põljaas, Member of the Riigikogu, Jaak Volmer, Member of the Management Board of the Estonian Hunters' Association, and Tõnis Korts, Managing Director of the Forest Department of the Ministry of the Environment, Tõnu Traks, and Head of the Legal Department, Eda Pärtel. At this meeting, 11 amendments were examined. Firstly, it was a question of laser sights. The amendment provided for the following: 'Laser sight is a device designed to target a firearm using a laser beam. The right to handle the lasers file is subject to a weapons permit. ' That was Mr. Field Zone's proposal. The debate was quite long. Here I can point out Veiko Kombusaar's view that Estonian hunters are not interested in using laser sights. He pointed out that this issue still required a thorough analysis, which had not been analysed, because the issue was only raised when the amendment was tabled, during the procedure of the draft. The Governing Commission adopted a decision to take part in the proposal. It was a consensual position. The eighth amendment concerned the silencer: 'The sound silencer is a device designed for the suppression of the sound generated by the firing of a firearm, which is permitted to be secured and used in hunting or shooting range or in a firing range. The acquisition of a silencer shall be subject to a permit for weapons. ' A consensus was found in this debate and the Committee on Legal Affairs took full account of the proposal. By Jaanus Karilaid, Uno Kaskpeit, Külliki Kübarsepp, Helmut Hallemaa (Alga Ivanova's alternate), Andres Metsoja (alternate for Raivo Aeg), Taavi Rõivas, Toomas Paur (alternate for Toomas Vitsut), Urve Tiidus and Valdo Randpere, Liisa Oviir, with the abstentions of Hardi Volmer. Amendment 12: 'Every gun owner will be given a personal permit number, which will not change when the permit is amended or renewed. ' The proposal reduces excessive administration and bureaucracy. In case a person with multiple weapons on one permit sells one weapon, for example, he gets a new license with a new number. This automatically invalidates all issued parallel weapons permits for weapons that are not sold. It is designed to cut red tape. The Ministry of the Interior did not support this proposal because it is a technical issue that can be resolved without legal changes, and in the future this issue can be resolved in a different way. The Governing Commission adopted a decision not to take the proposal into account. Amendment 21 provides for the addition of paragraphs 31 and 32 of § 41:'(31) Where, as a result of expiry, a weapons permit is exchanged, stating that the purpose of the weapon is solely to ensure security (for itself and for the protection of property), the firearms referred to in subsection 35 (5) of this Act must be subjected to an experiment. (32) Before carrying out the attempt to handle a firearm referred to in § 35 (5) of this Act, the person must pay the state fee. ' The Ministry of the Interior has analysed the combined effect of the provisions attached to the draft and the other provisions of the Arms Act and has found that such a restriction does not need to be added. The Committee on Legal Affairs took full account of this, or reached a consensus. Okay. What else is interesting? [[A voice from the hall.]] Not all of these points can be dealt with, because it would be too long, and here is the material for the three sessions, where it will get stronger. (Laughs) Then there's a point in the triggers that's going to increase the number of triggers to 5000. The explanation is that on the basis of the proposal submitted, the Ministry of the Interior proposes to increase the number of permitted igniters to 5000. The main reason is that hunters fill the bullets themselves and need triggers. The reason is also the size of the boxes available for sale: the triggers are not sold by tens, the box is one with several thousand triggers in it. It is designed so that the box does not need to be divided into parts at the store. The commission took full, consensual account of this proposal. At the end of the meeting, the Commission decided to continue the debate at the next meeting, which was adopted by consensus. There are now two more sittings.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U4	Good waitress! I would point out that you have one minute and 30 seconds to complete your report.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U5	Very good! So I'm gonna do the last trial where they pulled it together. This topic was very passionate because the participants were at the end of many organisations, the Estonian Hunters' Association, the Ministry of the Environment, and also the proposers. Paragraph 2 (2) of the Act enters into force on 1 January. And there's nothing else. In the course of questions, let's see who cares. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U6	Before I give the floor to the members of the Riigikogu, would you say what the Commission's proposal was?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U7	The Commission proposal, yes, of course! [[Laughing.]] It was decided to send the draft to third reading when the second one is closed by 14 February (consensually) and to propose that the draft be put to the final vote (consensually) after the third reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U8	Thank you, good waitress. Members of the Riigikogu have questions for you. Keit Pentus-Rosimannus opens the round of questions. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U9	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! A little cryptic was this report, especially the first part of it. But I'd try to open up a little bit more by the contents. You indicated that there was a debate on silencers. However, I assume that this was not such a general philosophy debate on silencers, but a permit to hunt with a silencer.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U10	Yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U11	In the past, the Ministry of the Interior has been very rigidly and firmly opposed to allowing a yacht with a silencer during a similar debate. In the course of the debate you held in the Commission, did the Ministry of the Interior express its opinion? Has that opinion changed in any way since before? What were the reasons when that opinion had changed?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U12	The Ministry of the Interior eventually withdrew from its rigid position, as representatives of the Ministry of the Environment and the Hunters' Association also explained why a silencer was needed. Shooting a hunting gun produces sound that sounds several miles away, disturbing the hunting area and the people in its neighborhood. Especially when the hunting area is near a city with scattered settlements, and when there is banging, people often turn to the police. The police will show up and check it out, make sure everything's all right, and the police will drive away. Why does shooting occur in places close to settlements with bushes, etc.? There are a lot of goats, small animals that are shot, and because there are so many of them, there is a problem. This is also one of the reasons why the number of road accidents involving wild animals has increased by over 800. I think the Ministry of the Environment and the Hunter's Association brought this out. The Ministry of the Interior used to say that silencers could be used by poachers. I'm gonna make an excerpt from here right now: the ban on the use of the silencer will help apprehend the poachers. Poachers use a silencer, yes, but they use it regardless of whether it's allowed or not. It was also pointed out that, as far as the press were concerned, there were photographs of poachers' weapons, they all had silencers. The problem is that in the countries around us where silencers are allowed, they can be bought freely in several places, and poachers have all of them.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U13	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U14	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! How was the debate in the Commission, and what result was reached at the point concerning the permitted amount of ammunition stored at home?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U15	Yes, it was also a long debate. I'm gonna go over the numbers. [[Browse papers.]] Okay. In general, the proposers had a request that up to 1000 guns or revolvers per weapon may be permitted, up to 1000 rounds per rifle, up to 1000 rounds per rifle, up to 2000 rounds per rifle and up to 10000 triggers. I already told you about the triggers, the common solution was that there could be 5,000 of them, so there's no need to break packages in the store. Okay. But there was a lot of fighting over bullets. Let's see what came out of here. The Ministry of the Interior considered that 200 rounds of ammunition per person for all weapons could be accepted for self-defence weapons. So for all weapons designed for self-defense, there are 200 rounds in total. I already told you about the triggers. The overall number of cartridges was not increased to the extent requested.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U16	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U17	President-in-Office of the Council. Good waitress! I have such a request to refresh my memory. In my opinion, the bitterest instrument in this draft still remained the question of relaxing language requirements. From now on, the bill allows you to pass the weapons examination using an interpreter in any language. This in itself, in my opinion, means a security risk. However, the theoretical examination of weapons could also be related to the proficiency of the Estonian language. But refresh my memory of how the discussion went on the committee. Was anyone enthusiastic about the relief, and was anyone against it? I was against it, I can tell you that much, but it might be interesting to hear some details in the hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U18	Wait a minute, let's have a look. That was Külliki Hatter's proposal, and that discussion was yes. But it wasn't, as you remember, confirmed or supported by the Commission. I'm about to take this place out. Here's the bad story that there were so many hearings. Ah, I got it! Okay. The proposal was: '27) Paragraph 35 51 is amended and worded as follows:'((51) The examination referred to in subsection 5 of this section shall be carried out in Estonian. '. ' 'If a person does not speak Estonian, he or she may pass the theoretical examination using an interpreter in another language, the translation costs being borne by the person wishing to pass the examination' was to be excluded, the interpreter should not be used, he or she should be fully able to speak Estonian. The Ministry of the Interior did not support the proposal submitted. Since the entry into force of the Weapons Act in 2001, non-prone persons have been allowed to take the weapons examination using an interpreter. There is currently no change to general practice, but there is an additional requirement to carry out a shooting test in Estonian without the help of an interpreter; the most important part of the exam, or practical weapons handling, is carried out in Estonian according to the draft. This ensures that a person understands adequately the basic weapons-related commands, for example, when opening fire command 'Tuld! ' and in an emergency, 'fire halt!' '. The current law does not explicitly state that the shooting attempt must be carried out in Estonian. Of course, the debate was also about why Estonia grants weapons permits to non-citizens, and Valdo Randpere suggested that the amendment in question could be voted by the Commission when the initiator of the proposal is present. The initiator of the proposal was not present. The chairman of the committee considered that this issue had been discussed in depth in the committee and did not see any reason to postpone the vote. It was the case that Jaanus Karilaid, Hardi Volmer, Liisa Oviir, Olga Ivanova and Raivo Aeg were against me and Valdo Randpere, and Urve Tiidus abstained.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U19	Urmas Kruuse, please, your turn!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U20	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! In your report and answers, you have mentioned that the Ministry of the Interior was opposed to the use of dampers at first, but in the end it was still broken. One of the arguments was that poachers use dampers anyway. It seems as if there were no other arguments than poaching. The second aspect you mentioned was that in the peri-urban areas, banging poses unnecessary police challenges and disrupts citizens' actions. Was the Commission also discussing the possibility of allowing silences in certain areas, not across the entire territory of Estonia, but, for example, in the hunting areas around the city?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U21	At first, they also had the view that the silencer was very dangerous in the pursuit of the brain because of the possibility of being shot by a mushroom or a berries. The committee asked whether the berries were to be shot with a silencer or a non-silver weapon. It also raised the question that if the Ministry thinks so, the Commission would like to receive five-year statistics from the Ministry on how many people have been shot with a silencer in Finland during the brainhunt. These statistics were not provided to the Commission. The representative of the Ministry of the Environment also pointed out that during the brainhunting and in general, hunters' associations all have radio transmitters. If anyone sees a mushroom or a marijuana, the radio will let each other know, the information will spread and move. So their initial position that someone was accidentally shot went down. Finally, they agreed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U22	Next, Urve Tiidus asks. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U23	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, 42 amendments were tabled to this draft. In the course of the Commission's discussion, for example, it became clear to me, as a stranger to weapons, that possession of a weapon in Estonia is not a rare phenomenon. We only have 15,000 hunters, of course the armed forces are allies of defence. For both groups, however, we can talk about weapons-related expertise. As a Commission rapporteur, I ask you to assess the wider impact of the law. Does it restrict or expand the possibility of buying a firearm, even if there is no immediate need for a weapon?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U24	I would not say that this package of amendments would now widen this opportunity, because when a person goes to buy a gun for the very first time, there are requirements: a medical check is made and the police check a person's past so that he does not have any punishment or such things. This package will certainly not change that. I don't know what else to say about that.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U25	Jürgen Ligi, your turn, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U26	Thank you. Good waitress! Urve Tiidus basically asked my question, but I think I need to repeat that question. First of all, from your report we learned that you have a number of papers and you do not orientate yourself to them that the Commission has been seeing a lot and that there have been very many nice people there, but very little we found out about what this law is doing. When you were asked about the silencers, you said that poachers used them anyway. For example, I'm about to say that I used to recognize a poacher, now I don't. I couldn't find out anything about the direction this law works. For example, bullets: smaller boxes can always be ordered, if the seller has an interest, do not have to buy the same large boxes. What is the overall effect of this law? Does it liberalise or restrict the possession of a weapon? I don't think armed action will increase security. If you allow another foreign language exam, I think this law will reduce security.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U27	Okay. First of all, for information. Ammunition is usually in 20 boxes, such as rifle ammunition. So there's no need for smaller boxes. What's in the box is a lot of triggers. These are large, multi-thousand-dollar boxes. There's no problem getting the bullets out of the store in terms of number. But there's a problem when you have several hunting weapons. If only 100 or 200 rounds were allowed for rifles, then 30 to 40 rounds for each weapon. He who lives near the city has no problem walking and buying bullets. But the problem is the athletes, because bullets are not sold in many shooting ranges. That's a problem. I don't do sports myself, I just practice, I shoot 20 rounds off, and everybody, but sportsmen, I understand, sometimes they shoot about a thousand bullets when they practice for hours. Then there's a problem because he's got a thousand rounds or how much he's allowed, but there's no point of sale in the shooting range where he's going to practice, and then these trainings are going to be halfway there. The number of bullets is a problem. There could be more of them because of me, and I wouldn't be bothered personally. In Finland, for example, there is no limit to bullets, be it a hunter or a sports shooter, there are no restrictions, a man may have 10,000 or 15,000 rounds at home. That's the question. [[A voice from the hall.]] Well, that makes it a little easier right now. And as far as poachers are concerned, the poacher wasn't visible until now, because the silencer silenced the banner and the whole story, so the banning of the silencer was kind of pointless.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U28	Rein Randver, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U29	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Today we are in the debate on the substance of the draft. I agree that if we apply for a weapons permit or a weapon, there are certain procedures that need to be carried out. But I note that among the amendments was the proposal that the extension of the weapons permit should be subject to a theoretical examination, a weapon handling test and also a shooting test. What were the discussions in the Committee on Legal Affairs and what conclusion was reached? When I read the amendments, I understand that the Committee on Legal Affairs did not support the fact that the theoretical examination, the handling of the weapon and the shooting test could be cancelled when applying for a weapons permit.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U30	Thank you. It was only about weapons acquired for self-defense, it didn't concern hunters. Personally, this thing, of course, doesn't make any sense to me, but maybe someone really has a weapon for self-defense, and he won't take it out of his bag for three years, even though, of course, I don't believe it. It was about weapons acquired in self-defense. This debate was also quite heated; the Committee on Legal Affairs did not adopt this decision in consensus; there were votes in favour and against. I'll add one very good thing that went through here (I didn't get to go through all the points before). That's where the weapons license becomes electronic. The police said it would take some time, of course, to put this system in place, but it will be ready at the beginning of next year. If the hunter's going to hunt, he doesn't have to carry so many papers. Since we're an IT state, it's possible. By the beginning of next year, it will be screened electronically.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U31	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U32	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, In your report, you did not deal very thoroughly with one of the fundamental changes contained in the draft, which concerns the language of the weapons examination. If I understand correctly, the bill creates the possibility that it will be possible to take this exam in the future, let's say, in a language other than Estonian. This change is fundamental because when we open up in one place, it is quite simple and possible to make similar changes in other places. Did the Commission mention this very fundamental change from this perspective as well? Are tests of this weight allowed to be tested only in another language, or is it planned to be extended later? Did I understand correctly that the content of the amendment is that in the future, a gun test may be carried out in a language other than Estonian?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U33	Yeah, it worked out that the theory exam can be done with an interpreter, but there's no interpreter at the shooting test. As I was just saying here, the Commands 'The Fire! 'and 'Stop Fire! ' 'must be clear. But it didn't work out in a consensual way. If you want, I've got the names here.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U34	Valdo Randpere, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U35	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! I wanted to add a little more to the previous discussion and the previous questions. There were a few questions about the silencer. Wasn't it the case that in the Commission, correct me if I remember wrong, but I think I remember correctly the representatives of the Ministry of the Environment were very enthusiastic about allowing a silencer to hunt?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U36	Yeah, I thought I mentioned it too, I even read the opinion of a representative of the Ministry of the Environment. When the shooting of goats and other such animals occurs near the settlement, it disturbs people. Several times the police have been called, the police come in and make sure that all the normal hunters and this area are hunting grounds. It was-it was. The Ministry of the Environment strongly supported the introduction of silencers. Thanks to this, I think the Interior Department finally agreed to this.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U37	Madis Milling, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U38	Thank you very much. Honourable waitress! I'll continue on the number of bullets. Indeed, 200 rounds per weapon are enough for a person who does not take it out of the closet or who goes around once a year after he has acquired it. Yet, the arms law states that the owner of the weapon must keep in shape and exercise regularly. 200 rounds are four boxes of bullets. For one effective shooting exercise, there shall be at least 5 to 6 rounds. But at the same time, you can't let them all go in the circle because you can't move with an empty gun, you have to have at least one bullet to protect the gun itself. I can't buy 200 rounds from the gun shop because I have one bullet in the barrel and I'd already break the law because I'd have 201 rounds in total. My question: what was the State Department's argument when they just stoned the 200 rounds?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U39	I don't know why, but they were just against it, they said the amount of bullets shouldn't be too high. Here it is also written in detail. But the principle was that they could be stolen or placed in foreign hands. Such justifications. I personally agree with that. As I said, there is no limit to the number of rounds in Finland. That's right. People who keep shooting in the shooting range, we're a little different people, so I understand you. I also think that this number could have been higher, but this 200 rounds goes for all self-defense weapons.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U40	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U41	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! This debate is sometimes exciting, but people who have never held a gun are often involved in this debate, even less so. In response to one of the previous questioners who spoke here about the language in which the exam can be passed, I would remind you that for years the PBA has allowed a theoretical test and also a shooting test in Russian, during the long years when the Reform Party held the seat of the Minister of Interior. This is also the answer to Jürgen Ligi's question concerning the language examination. It was just said for information, maybe not everyone knows it. By going on philosophically, if we are talking about whether it liberalises or complicates the possession of a weapon, then, good waitress, am I right that, in principle, this legislative amendment will in no way affect the acquisition of weapons and the making of a permit for weapons, because the restrictions that are currently in possession of a weapons permit and a permit for acquisition will remain exactly the same, these same requirements will remain in force? In fact, there is no fundamental change in the acquisition of a weapon, everything remains roughly the same as it is now.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U42	Yeah, when you get a weapons license, yeah. When acquiring a weapons permit, it is simply a requirement that the shooting attempt is not carried out by an interpreter; it must be carried out on the basis of orders in Estonian. But there were only two commands: 'The fire! 'and 'Stop Fire! ' '. That's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U43	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U44	Thank you. There was also such an amendment that the gun could carry a bullet in the chamber, because the revolver could be worn in the essence. The Ministry of the Interior also accepted this proposal. If there were to be some kind of situation where self-defense was needed, this would significantly accelerate the possibility of a response. It is now the case that, despite the support of the Ministry of the Interior, the Commission rejected this proposal. For what reason?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U45	If I remember correctly, some specialists thought it was very dangerous that if you took it out of the holster, a bang might happen. Yeah, maybe it's really dangerous for a non-specialist. But the way that vote went can be shown later. There are so many votes to find it here. Yeah, it was a debate, and it wasn't the Ministry of the Interior that was so scary as it was against, but it was.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U46	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U47	Thank you. Good waitress! A young man in that corner said we had a very heated debate. I say our debate is damn boring, because you're presenting some formal facts, not talking about gun law. Second, he thought I hadn't held a gun in my life. Everything that's legal, I've done more than that young man could possibly ever do in his life. But what were these considerations as to why a non-national examination is allowed? What were those pros and cons? I am deeply disturbed by this progressive yield to foreign languages, and I am also disturbed by its security dimension.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U48	For and against arguments. The point is, this foreign language exam already exists in the current law. This amendment was proposed by Külliki Hatter in order to complete it and to be done only in Estonian. But the Home Office didn't agree with that either, and that's how the vote went.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U49	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U50	Good manager! Good waitress! If you use a silencer, the bullet won't fly that far again. Did you also discuss that, if you allow it, there'll be a lot more fuckers in the woods?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U51	The bullet doesn't fly far, but if a man gets a silencer, he'll figure out what kind of ammo to use and how far it flies, the gun will be let in. There was not much debate on this issue. I don't think that's a problem. Secondly, I have not heard that in Finland, the forest is full of moose sons of bitches because of silencers.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U52	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U53	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Certainly, in response to a vigilante sitting on my right hand and above me, it can be said that the acquisition of an ex-gun permit and the presence of a gun carrier also require greater psychological stability, and that certainly has not been given to everyone. But a question for the waitress. Certainly, every law must give society some kind of signal, or it must have some meaning. Do you think it is right that in a security situation that has changed around the world and has changed in Estonia too, it is actually beneficial for society if we have more citizens who have acquired the ability to handle weapons, have taken a weapons test and are legally justified to carry a weapon or to keep it in their home? I think it will make society more secure than the state will give a signal that it is welcome and we will trust our citizens when they are determined to acquire a weapon. Am I right, waitress?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U54	There was no direct debate in the Commission on this subject, and I represent the Commission, I do not have to give my opinion here. I can talk to you in the hall after. Since I have a military background, of course, I have a different attitude to weapons.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U55	Ladies and gentlemen, One of the unwritten rules of this hall is that one has respect for one another. So I ask you to focus your energy primarily on the waitress, not on each other. Thank you. George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U56	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! I will return to the Küllik Hatter's Amendment. You said if I understood correctly that the Ministry of the Interior was opposed to this proposal. You also said that this happened during the vote. I did not understand whether this vote was dictated by the Ministry of the Interior or was dictated by the members of the Committee on Legal Affairs? Could you explain to me exactly what these arguments were as to why the Commission opposed Küllik's Hatter's amendment, as I understand it?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U57	I cannot state the position of the Members of the Commission. A representative of the Ministry of Interior read the Ministry's position, and there was no further debate. If you like, I can read the description of this short debate. You want some? I asked why Estonia grants weapons permits to non-citizens. Jaanus Karilaid felt that if the possibility of arms clearance for non-citizens was not supported, a legislative amendment would have to be made. Mr Randpere suggested that this amendment could be voted when the initiator of the proposal was also present and could explain his own principles and backgrounds. This was not taken into account and went to the vote to disregard the proposal. Jaanus Karilaid, Hardi Volmer, Liisa Oviir, Olga Ivanova and Raivo Aeg were against me and Valdo Randpere, with the abstentions of Urve Tiidus. There was no further discussion, except for the State Department.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U58	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U59	Thank you, good vice chairman. According to my memory, we discussed this issue at several meetings of the Commission. I myself have also voted in favour of the fact that, as the rule of law, Estonia should ensure that both the theory part of the weapons examination and the internship part are done in the national language, or in Estonian. We can't act any different. I myself have conducted a basic military course, where people in other languages did not even understand the basic Estonian arrangements. It's an obvious security risk in handling a weapon. Was it not that one of the reasons why the Ministry of the Interior could pass the weapons examination in another language was that the translation costs are not borne by the state but are borne by the person who wishes to pass the exam himself?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U60	Yes, but we had this debate in November, which was adopted on 15 January. Really, then this discussion and the bickering was, but... [[Browse papers.]] The Home Office was on top. I read out the members of the committee who voted. Mr Randpere also proposed that perhaps not vote and wait for the proposer, but that was not approved.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U61	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U62	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! Well, as we know, new guns don't have safety equipment, and there's no such thing. The current law provides that when wearing a gun, the bullet must not be in the iron if the gun is in the holster, under the arm or under the bracelet, the bullet must not be in the iron. You can't wear a revolver any other way if he's got a bullet in him all the time. This distinction is also written in the law. There have been many accidents among policemen and others. For example, Glock guns do not show whether the bullet is in or not. Walther-type pistols show that the bullet's in the iron, and it's like a threat. A person can see it without moving the ball of a gun. Why did you agree, and why do you think the power structures agreed that a gun could be carried in a holster, a bullet in the iron? If you do a little exercise, it won't take more than 0.8 seconds to draw the iron. Why such a proposal and why did you justify it?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U63	What do you mean? I have not proposed this. I didn't explain it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U64	Johannes Kert, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U65	Thank you! My brief comment is that. In addition to all other reasons why a foreign language test should not be allowed, safety engineering is another reason. If these people do not know the language spoken mostly in Estonia, they put themselves and others at risk both in hunting and in the shooting range. That is, I think, a pretty serious argument that the Ministry of the Interior should also take into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U66	Yes, certain members of the Commission agreed; I was among them. It's a problem, but there's nothing to do.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U67	Peter Ernits, another question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U68	Good manager! Good waitress! What about using this silencer? Is it okay to hunt the brain? If I may, is that wise?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U69	Yeah, it's okay, it's okay. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. If it was approved by the Commission, it would therefore be wise. I'm not gonna say what I think.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U70	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U71	I'll get back to the language thing. I know what 'Stok' means! Shaudo! '. I don't speak Lithuanian, but I know it means 'Stop! Shooting! ', for the simple reason that I've been in the army in Lithuania. Every Soviet person and his successor knows very well what 'Hände hoch! ' and what other such things mean. Now that you're going philologically demanding rules, it's completely incomprehensible to me. I understand that this is an aspect of loyalty, but I recall that Kingissep, Sihver, Klementi, Pöögelmann, Kreuks, Barbares, Maxim Unt and many others spoke very well in Estonian, but it was difficult for Reek, Kuperjanov, Sabolotny and Mannerheim to speak in Estonian. In this regard, I have a question. What is the real content of this language requirement? Let's put the safety technique aside. Safety techniques instructions are written in English, by the way!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U72	What's the content? I don't know how to answer that. The content wasn't discussed. Just accepted.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U73	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U74	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! In your reply on the same language issue, you stressed several times that the opinion of the Ministry of the Interior remained on the Commission. But I am interested in what arguments were still made against the Members of the Commission and the reasons for not taking the test in the national language.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U75	I'll look and find it. It's... [[Laughing.]] It was somewhere in the first... Uh-uh-hoo, there's a lot of them. [[Browse papers.]] Let's get this out of here. The debate was a little bigger when the first session was held, but the Ministry's position was that it was perhaps that they had already been issued since 1991. I'll see. See, there's so much of this stuff. [[A voice from the hall.]] Huh? In November, yeah, I'll check it out. (Laughs. Browse papers.) Oh-oh-hoo! It's... Oh, good! To... [[Browse papers.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U76	Good waitress, do you need a little more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U77	Yeah, I can't find it right now... [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U78	But tell me about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U79	Well, out of my head... I don't remember this meeting on November 7th. That's the point. Then I will satisfy this curiosity. [[Laughing.]] The material's just so big, there's been five sessions. There was a lot of that stuff and that stuff and that stuff.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U80	Nice. Johannes Kert, another question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U81	Thank you. A little comment. There are certainly rules on safety engineering in Estonian. But I wanted to ask whether the Commission was also discussing how the conditions for holding weapons and the keeping of weapons are controlled. With what periodicity is this being done, and what are the sanctions if weapons are mismanaged or not held at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U82	There was no talk about how often they check, because this is a direct task for the Police and Border Guard Board. That was not the subject. But there was talk, the Ministry of the Interior raised the subject that if the number of bullets is as high as it was requested, there is no place to store them and they are lying around and can go left or right. How often they check, we didn't have a conversation about it. But the inspection is completely put on the Police and Border Guard Board, Officer or someone else goes home.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U83	Good waitress, there are no more questions for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U84	Thank you very much. If anyone has a special request, I'll help with this material in the hallway.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U85	Okay. Now it's time for a negotiation. The first has been to ask for the floor on behalf of the Group of the Valdo Randpere Reform Party. However, at second reading, all members of the Riigikogu can come to the remote control. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U86	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, You could really talk a lot about this bill, Uno got into a bit of trouble with it. Indeed, we had a long discussion on this draft, we had very long sessions and there were very many amendments, so I am not surprised at the fact that a person forgets a little. But that's it. I was reminded, in particular, of the fact that it was a typical or even atypical draft, which, in my opinion, was at first filled with terrible crap. That was a very bad bill. But he got better and, quite surprisingly, he got better, in particular, through amendments made by opposition parties, although there were also proposals from the coalition that were accepted. I have never voted as many times in my life as the representative of the EKRE or supported the EKRE amendments as much as I did during the debate on this draft. I hope I don't have to do this in the future, so a little difference could still be between us. But indeed, this initial draft, which was sent to us, was well-written by the attitude of the Soviet era. Now remember, during the period of conspiracy, the weapon actually meant the first step towards a coup. The weapon was a security threat. In the best case, a single hunter may have dreamed of a smooth-bore rifle, and a rifle was already a very clear attempt to overthrow Soviet power. This mentality has survived a little, it has survived in our own halls, some of us have certainly survived a large part of the Interior Department's staff. But I was glad to see that the Ministry of the Interior was able to accept some pretty serious arguments and change its views between the two readings. That law didn't end up as bad as it was at first, but it's not good either. There are some shortcomings. In this Chamber today, too, there was a discussion about whether weapons were a source of security or a threat to security. Of course, we could discuss it any way we like. If we take this issue on a broader scale, we could, in principle, conclude that if weapons are a security threat, security could best be achieved if, for example, NATO were to demilitarise itself. It's not like that. I also think that, properly handled and properly, rationally and systematically delivered, weapons are a source of security. There are very many reasons for Estonia to have a good law on weapons on the basis of which citizens who behave, think and act properly can acquire a weapon. Can I have three more minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U87	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U88	What are the main disadvantages that remained in this bill and the main elements that I do not agree with? I assume that the majority of the Reform Party also disagrees with the approach, for example, that a requirement is introduced to retake the exam when extending the weapons permit. I think it's in vain. We don't have to pass another exam if we extend our driver's license. They say yes, but you use a car every day, you don't use a gun every day. There are many drivers who use their car only on Saturday Sunday and also during the summer months. However, we will not force them to take the test again. It is such a bureaucratic approach to let them take the test again. Then there's gotta be some way to take that exam. I can't imagine how much it all takes and costs, but that's what the law says now. The second issue, where the solution is incomplete, is the number of rounds allowed. On the one hand, officials would very much like to limit this, on the other hand, there is no good argument and, thirdly, there are no interested parties involved. For example, representatives of the National Defence Commission could have been involved in this debate and may have received expert and necessary input. As I said, it was a surprise that the government changed its position on quite a number of points, changed the draft and came with amendments. It is noteworthy, of course, that he came along in such technical matters. But when it comes to relaxing language requirements, it has to be said that it is a combination in itself. True, according to the current law, it may be possible in practice to pass a weapons test using an interpreter in a foreign language. But this law also makes the procedures for granting arms permits to foreigners, people living here on the basis of a residence permit and non-citizens more liberal. This, in combination with the relaxation of the language law, is not a good security guarantee. It has been said here several times that the Külliiki Kübarsepp of the Free Party proposed an amendment so that both the theoretical and the practical parts of the weapons examination could be performed only in the national language, only in Estonian. We believe that this is a very good requirement, precisely in combination with the fact that an alien who holds a residence permit in Estonia or who is based in Estonia on the basis of the right of residence can apply for a weapons permit or convert his or her valid weapons permit, which may also have been granted to him or her in a third country, when this law enters into force, this country does not only have to be a Member State of the European Union. It was remarkable that the government, which was prepared to give in to technical matters, was very unanimous and firm when the question was about reducing the share of the Estonian language: the importance of the Estonian language must be reduced and the examination of weapons must also be carried out by means of an interpreter in a foreign language. The Reform Party is not in favour of this position. As I mentioned, there were other shortcomings in this law. Although now I could stand here in front of you and think, either with a sparrow in my hand or a crow on the roof, and choose the sparrow in my hand, I would still go after that crow. I therefore propose, on behalf of the Reform Party Group, that the second reading of this draft be interrupted, that once again be taken off the table, that the Committee on Legal Affairs also be called on the representatives of the National Defence Committee and that these matters be discussed again. Perhaps then we will finally come to an agreement on the language requirements and say that the weapons examination can only be carried out in the national language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U89	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U90	Good vice chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, The law of weapons and possession of weapons are certainly an emotional issue, because it is our own security. We cannot hold this debate as to whether we are talking about fear of a weapon or the fear of not being able to provide us with enough security, security in carrying out activities in this country, either as regards everyday activities or as regards any foreign phenomenon, let us call it that. I was a little scared when we started discussing this bill because, while this bill was being handed over, mass shootings took place both in Europe and in America. I was just in America watching the presidential election when there was a mass shooting in Texas. The debate that was there and I watched on TV was a cause for concern. But I must acknowledge that the proposals put forward by the Committee on Legal Affairs were, in general, completely reasonable. In every area, for example, the transition to e-services and the reduction of bureaucracy, or paperwork, are welcome. However, I did see one amendment that I had drafted myself. The Ministry had proposed to strengthen the language requirements in part, so that an internship exam should be made in Estonian when applying for a weapons permit. This year is the 100th year of the Republic of Estonia. We should pay more attention to the values why the Estonian state exists, why our people should continue and grow, why we should keep our identity, one of the strongest foundations of which is our own official language, the Estonian language. But it is not only about knowing the Estonian language, but about putting together two values, giving people the right and the opportunity to guarantee their personal security by means of a weapon, it must also be understandable in the light of the laws and principles of our state as a rule of law. I myself have conducted a basic military course in the Defence League. A few members of the Defence League misunderstood the Estonian language. The result? The result was that they did not understand how to hold a weapon so that it would not endanger the end of the ear. They didn't fully understand the basics, not to mention that maneuvering didn't understand where to go and how to go. In my opinion, this is an elementary matter: if you are going on such a sensitive path that you are going to apply for a weapon, but you do not understand how Estonian laws regulate this topic (which is largely controlled by the theory exam), how can I trust you to carry this weapon? Of course, the principle is whether, as an Estonian state, we are subjugating our language or not. I don't think we can do that. We need to find ways to integrate and teach people how to train them to understand that it is so elementary: if I live in an Estonian country, I can speak Estonian, I can do my business in that language. I therefore call on all of you to support Amendment 15, which specifically concerns this topic, in other words, I call on everyone to support the proposal, which is that when applying for a weapons permit, an examination, both a theoretical and an internship examination, must be carried out in Estonian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U91	Next, please speak to Raivo Aeg. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U92	Ladies and gentlemen, It has been an ancient dilemma and an argument that if the population is armed, it will either give the country more security or less security. The truth is on both sides. On the one hand, of course, if there is a need to protect the state and there are people in the country who can handle the weapon, they will certainly be considerably easier to form for the purpose of protecting the state as well. However, when we are talking about general security, yes, indeed, we see from world practice that in countries where possession of a weapon has been made very liberal, very often very tragic events have also occurred from the point of view of general public order and security. We know examples of school shootings, we know that in public space the weapon has been mistreated, and Külliki also gave an example of what has happened in America. But that's it. This is a more general philosophical issue and this is obviously not something we can deal with in the context of this draft arms law. There was a lot of talking about the use of dampers. I too opposed the silencer to be widely used everywhere, on the yacht and on the shooting range. I think it's practical to use a silencer at shooting range because it's intense to shoot and it can disturb bystanders. The owner of the weapon himself, of course, is able to use headphones or whatever, including protective equipment, but this noise pollution sometimes becomes dangerous to the health of bystanders. There's never that kind of intense shooting in the hunt. All those other arguments that drives goats out of the woods, or, I don't know, the mushrooms don't hear, I don't think they're competent. In the course of hunting, I do not think it is justified to allow the use of a silencer. A very important aspect that did not go through this discussion at all today, but what was at issue during the proceedings on this draft arms law was that the regulation of the registration, record-keeping and maintenance of deactivated weapons changed significantly. There will also soon be a European Union Arms Directive, which will deal very much with the issue of unarmed weapons. This is one very, very important point, because there are plenty of examples that the so-called unarmed, deactivated weapons have been reactivated and used in organised crime and in the same way in the implementation of terrorist acts. So this is a major step forward in ensuring the security aspect. Another very important aspect in the process of dealing with the arms law is that our security and law enforcement authorities have gained discretion when issuing a weapons permit and suspending the weapons permit. It is now possible to take into account a person's threat to national security and to take a decision on whether not to issue a permit at all or to carry out a procedure and suspend the validity of the permit. Here is, in fact, the question that many relate to the language issue. It's the same question of loyalty. I've had a lot of disagreements with Igor Gräzini, but what Igor said today is actually right. Instead of guaranteeing loyalty by means of the Weapons Act, we could rather talk about how to regulate the right of non-citizens to acquire a weapon and regulate it by means of it, but not by taking advantage of the desire to possess a weapon to teach the Estonian language. Come on, help me! This is not how we teach Estonian! I'm asking for three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U93	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U94	Okay. One very important aspect that came up is that the owner of weapons is given the right to increase the number of weapons storage facilities as he sees fit. Now, as we know, there may be a single place, no more law. There is now an opportunity to register two more weapons storage facilities with the police. For example, if you go from your main residence to a summer home or somewhere else for several months, you will also have the opportunity to register them as weapons storage facilities. Who knows the law of weapons knows it gives a lot of nuances. I also made a few amendments myself, one relating to the amendment of the hunting law. Together with the Weapons Act, the parts of the Hunting Act which oblige the hunt to carry several hunting documents are amended or at least proposed to be amended. Since an addition to the Arms Act is required to carry the permit no longer in physical form, only an identity document, analogous to driving licences, is sufficient, it is appropriate to introduce the same analogy in relation to the carrying of other hunting documents. They also do not have to carry them all the time; one identity document is sufficient. Similarly, when it comes to cutting red tape, it is important that, for example, when there is a hunt together, the transfer of a weapon to a person entitled to carry the same type of weapon is no longer required to formalise an enormous number of acts, delivery acts and adoption acts, which can also be proven orally on the ground. Of course, there was a great deal left in the arms law where what was written in'real life' and what was written in 'law' is not consistent; that would require an audit, yes and yet. But, as I understand it, the Ministry of the Interior has planned to write a completely new arms law, because, in the end, this old patching, rewriting and supplementing will make the law so confusing and incomprehensible that it would really be easier to draw up a new arms law, where perhaps other important aspects can already be addressed, starting with loyalty issues and so on. But we'll get on with it. I think it would still be rational and right to support today's end of the second reading of the Arms Act and to refer this draft to the third reading, as proposed by the lead committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U95	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U96	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The arms law is indeed extremely important and the current version has been dealt with for a very long time and in depth. There can be no denying, indeed, very many positive changes have been made, which must be supported, but at the same time there are still quite a number of questionable issues that have remained or been introduced. Having a weapon is one of the hallmarks of a free society. This shows that the state trusts its citizens because it entrusts the weapon to its citizens. Unfortunately, when this bill came from the Ministry of the Interior, it wore the opposite ideology. It was clear that the state does not trust its own citizens, that the state does not trust persons who have already been granted a weapons permit and who have actually passed all the checks, including the kapo checks, who have passed all the tests, shooting and weapons handling skills tests. The purpose of this draft was to collect weapons from the public, to make it more difficult to obtain a weapons permit and to remove it as easily as possible, including at this point in time when it would be necessary to extend the validity of the weapons permit. Fortunately, such proposals, where there were greater, how to say, contradictions, such as the fact that when extending the weapons permit, a person must start to justify again why he needs a gun and have to pass all the exams, were rejected. After all, the reason is very simple: none of the criteria for not extending this authorisation could be mentioned, and the author of the law, the Ministry of the Interior, could not or had not possibly wished to. The official was given the subjective right to decide. But we already know the examples today. There was a case in Tartu two years ago when they asked the arms permit extender if he still needed a weapon for self-defense. 'No, it's not. Well, then you don't need it. " His permission was not extended, but it must have been two weeks or two months, in short, soon enough, he would have needed it. He was attacked, and the consequences were pretty bad. Luckily, that thing was out of the law. As I mentioned, possession of a weapon increases security. Let's look at the American states with the guns on sale. In fact, contrary to what you might think, it is precisely in these states that there is less crime. The question is that we do not freely distribute weapons to everyone; these individuals are truly controlled and loyal citizens. If they are disloyal or use a weapon for criminal purposes, it will be possible to withdraw the permit at any moment and take it away from them. But in support of all this so-called own ideology, representatives of the Ministry of the Interior in the Commission gave examples of how many crimes or accidents have been committed with weapons. But when we started asking the exact question, then... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U97	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U98	... it turned out they were talking about illegal weapons, not legal weapons. There are still extremely few crimes committed with legal weapons. It would not have been possible to have a summer war in 1941 if the people had not had personal weapons in their hands to confront the occupiers. We must look to the future honestly and with our eyes open. All these situations can happen again. So what were, say, bigger problems that still remained in the law? Number of bullets. 200 rounds for all weapons is still extremely low. I'm an active defence ally myself, and I go shooting, and I know that 100 rounds will be taken within an hour alone. It's not training, it's a little warm-up, it's getting in. There is certainly a need to increase the number of permitted rounds, all the more so as the author of the bill also said that there are no restrictions at all in Finland, for example. It's justified to carry a bullet in a shell's nest. Indeed, cocking a gun, when you're attacked, doesn't take too much time, but it takes so much time that in that time a criminal can attack you and you can't draw a gun anymore. Language requirements are much talked about today. We also supported this proposal. We proposed that gas weapons should be removed from the permit in the same way, because it does not matter whether it is a gas cylinder or a gas weapon, only the shape is different. Unfortunately, it was not supported. Deactivated weapons must be registered, registered, etc. At the same time, we have a new weapon that has been deactivated under the current European Union Directive only as a decorative object, it can no longer be deactivated, so there is no point in spending our time or public money on keeping these registers. Lasers' wig. Somehow, they found it extremely dangerous, and it's starting to disturb planes. At the same time, anyone can buy a laser from any store that can set something on fire from a few meters away. I don't think these honest, legal, controlled gun owners are gonna disturb air traffic. So there are, in fact, many, many things that should be improved, despite the fact that I really recognise the Commission and I also congratulate the Ministry of the Interior for excluding bigger nonsense and putting in a lot of positive things, so the law got better. However, I think that the Riigikogu should still deal with this and still involve the National Defence Committee in it, why not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U99	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U100	Mr President of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, People who do not come into contact with firearms tend to mysticize and demonise firearms because they do not know what they are dealing with. Every time a tragic event takes place somewhere, whether it's a school shooting or something, society starts vocalizing about banning all firearms now. However, significantly more people are being murdered with kitchen knives, axes and stool, but we are not talking about banning kitchen knives and axes. The gun is a tool. Yeah, he's a dangerous tool, and the more you have to learn to use him. It has already been pointed out here that a country that does not trust its people is desperately keen to take weapons from people. If we recall history, we know that after the turn of June 1940, it just happened. The first thing the red power did was he quickly picked up the weapons from the people. When we became independent in the 1990s and started making our own laws, where did we have a template? We took a lot of Soviet law. In the same way, everything that touched the weapons was like a tail to us from Soviet times. Sadly, we do not understand the idea of Soviet times to ourselves at times. As a Soviet intellectual heritage, silencer, laser sight and also night vision are something very, very criminal, because they were used only by the diversants of capitalist countries. But time has passed, and we should no longer demonise such technical resources. This law is crude. Yeah, well, there's been a lot of progress with this law, and there's a lot of good things here, but there's a way to make this law even better. I don't really want to go into the details and torturing people with the details who don't know anything about it, but there are some things I'd like to bring out. Taking an exam for the extension of the weapons permit. Today there were opinions that we would not take the test if we were to extend the driver's license, and then there was a counter argument that a person who has acquired a weapon and has not taken it out of the closet for a long time would lose his ability to use it. Yeah, it really is, but it would be enough if the gun owner once a year went in a circle with a licensed shooter, took the gun out of the box, showed the main gun movements and listened to the firing orders. That's enough. It would be written in the register that a person has been there and had a shooting exercise, and it would be just a practical technical solution. Ammunition count. As came out of the reports here, nor can the Ministry of the Interior tell us which analyses or arguments he's suddenly taken 200 rounds out of the ceiling and chopped it into stone. It's not competent. Nobody's talking about having thousands or tens of thousands of bullets at home. Shooting instructors, practitioners, speak of an optimal range of, for example, 400 single-calibre rounds per particular weapon. 200 rounds at home, what does that mean? Let me give you a practical example. I live in a forest farm, I have a gun, my lady has a weapon that's easier to handle, like a revolver, then I have a rifle for a goat and a smooth-bore 12-gauge shotgun for a bear. I can hold 200 rounds at home, which only makes 50 rounds per gun. The law says the gun owner has to keep in shape. 50 rounds doesn't do anything in the shooting range. Next example: A bullet in the iron. I'm gonna make it really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really red. This discussion came about over the revolver and the pistol. The gun basically has a bullet in it all the time, but you can't have a gun now. A gun with a bullet in the iron, which has been cast off and has a safety device on it, is technically... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U101	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U102	... safer than a revolver, because the revolver doesn't have a safety device. But somehow it was suddenly found that you see the revolver is safer, but if the gun has a bullet in it, it's far more dangerous. Maybe we see a lot of things here that can be said ironically that they were born in an office. Here's also an example, fortunately, this provision was taken out of the law, but I just have to bring it out again on this console, so if you're going to extend your weapons license and you're being asked if you need a gun, and you're saying you don't, maybe they'll find you don't need a gun. Hey, this is crazy! In the same way, a car inspection might ask if a fire extinguisher was needed. 'No, it's not. '''But you don't have to keep it in the car! " Perhaps these are things that were reborn in the office. I believe that the draft must go back to the Commission, and I think twice that the Committee on National Defence could also be involved in the debate. I promise you that the National Defence Committee has a lot of practical competence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U103	There's no more calls. We can go to the examination of the amendments. 46 amendments have been received to this draft. Let's go through them. The first amendment is from the Committee on Legal Affairs, fully taken into account. The second amendment has been fully taken into account. The third is fully accounted for. The fourth amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia; the lead committee has failed. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U104	On behalf of the EKRE Group, I would like to put this amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U105	All right, let's start preparing the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the fourth amendment tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, which has been disregarded by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. The amendment was accepted by 22 and against 39 members of the Riigikogu. The proposal was not supported. The fifth amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia; the lead committee has failed. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U106	Thank you. On behalf of the EKRE Group, I would like to ask that this proposal be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U107	Got it. Can we go to the vote, no objections? Dear members of the Riigikogu, before you is Amendment 5, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party, the commission has rejected this proposal. Please take a stand and vote. There were 18 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the amendment and 41 against it. The proposal was not supported. The sixth amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia; the lead committee has taken full account of it. The seventh amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, which has been partially taken into account. The eighth amendment has been tabled by the lead committee and has been fully taken into account. The ninth amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, the Commission has disregarded. This proposal is not subject to the vote pursuant to § 106 of the Home and Working Procedures Act. The tenth amendment has been tabled by Mr Aeg, the lead committee has taken account in essence of Amendment 11, which has been fully taken into account by the Commission. The 12th amendment has been tabled by the Estonian Conservative People's Party, the Steering Committee has failed, and it is not to be voted on because of the paragraph already mentioned. Amendment 13 has been tabled by Mr Vitsut, the lead committee has taken full account of it. The 14th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia; the commission has not taken account of it; it is not to be voted on either. The 15th amendment has been tabled by Külliki Kübarsepp, the commission has failed. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U108	Thank you, good vice chairman. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U109	Can we go to the vote? [[A voice from the hall.]] Amendment 15, yes. Dear members of the Riigikogu, I shall put to the vote the 15th amendment tabled by Külliki Kübarsepp, the commission of the commission has failed. Please take a stand and vote. 32 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal and 39 were against. The proposal was not supported. The 16th amendment has been tabled by the member of the Riigikogu, Toomas Vitsut, and the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, the Commission has taken full account of it. Amendment 17 has been tabled by Mr Aeg, in full consideration. Amendment 18 has been tabled by Mr Vitsut, in full consideration. Amendment 19 has been tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, partly taken into account. The 20th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia; the lead committee has failed. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U110	On behalf of the ECRE Group, please put this amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U111	Okay, I got it. Can we go to the vote? No objections. Dear members of the Riigikogu, Amendment 19 is before you. Sorry, number 20! Right, sorry! Before you is Amendment 20, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party. This proposal has not been taken into account by the Steering Committee. Please take a stand and vote. 24 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the amendment, 40 against. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 21, the lead committee has taken full account of this. Amendment 22, the lead committee has taken full account of this. The 23rd amendment has been tabled by both Mr Vitsut and the EKRE Group; the Commission has taken full account of it. Amendment 24 has been tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, taking into account essentially Amendment 25, which the Commission itself has made and fully respected. The 26th amendment has been fully taken into account by the Commission and the Commission itself has done so. Amendment 27 has been tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. The Commission has not taken this into account, but it is not to be voted on in accordance with the Rules of Procedure Act. The 28th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia; the Commission has not taken account of it and it is not to be voted on. Amendment 29 has been tabled by Mr Vitsut; the Commission has taken part in this consideration by means of Amendment 30, which was made by the Commission itself and fully taken into account. Amendment 31, the lead committee has taken full account of this. Amendment 32 is from the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia; the Commission has not taken account of it; it is not to be voted on either. The 33rd amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, the Commission has not taken into account and the proposal is not to be voted on. The 34th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, the Commission did not take into account and the proposal is not to be voted on. The 35th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia; the Commission has rejected it; the proposal is not to be voted on. Amendment 36, the Committee on Legal Affairs has taken full account of this. The 37th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, the Commission has disregarded and is not to be voted on. Amendment 38 is from the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia; the Commission has not taken into account; the proposal is not to be voted on. The 39th proposal has been submitted by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, and the lead committee has taken full account of it. The 40th amendment has been tabled by the Commission and has been fully taken into account. Amendment 41 is from the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia; the commission has not taken account of it. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U112	Thank you. On behalf of the EKRE Group, I would like to ask that this proposal be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U113	Got it. Can we go to the vote? Dear members of the Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 41 tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia and rejected by the Commission. Please take a stand and vote. The proposal was supported by 21 and against 41 members of the Riigikogu. The proposal was not supported. The 42nd amendment has been tabled by the Commission and has been fully taken into account. 43rd amendment tabled by Mr Aeg, the Commission has taken full account of it. 44. the amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia; the Commission has not taken account of it and it is not to be voted on. 45th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia; the lead committee has failed. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U114	I would like to ask that this amendment be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U115	Okay, I got it. Can we go to the vote? There are no objections. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 45, tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, the commission has not taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. This amendment was supported by 23 and there are 41 members of the Riigikogu against it. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 46 is from the Commission, fully taken into account. Dear members of the Riigikogu, we have examined the amendments, but the Reform Party Group has proposed to interrupt the second reading of the draft law amending the Arms Act and the related amendment of other laws. This proposal needs to be voted through. Honourable Riigikogu, please pay attention! We will vote on the proposal of the Group of the Estonian Reform Party to interrupt the second reading of the draft Act amending the Arms Act and other laws related to it. Please take a stand and vote. 34 voted in favour of interrupting the second reading of the bill and 41 members of the Riigikogu were against. The proposal was not supported, which means that the second reading has ended.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U116	Dear Riigikogu, let's move on to our agenda. The next item is the debate 552 on the draft resolution of the Riigikogu on 'Rehabilitation of the Association of Estonian War of Independence and associated persons and organisations' presented by the members of the Riigikogu, Henn Põllea, Jaanus Kariladi, Martin Helme, Igor Gräzini, Jaak Madison, Raivo Põldaru, Arno Silla, Peeter Ernitsa, Madis Milling, Mart Helme, Uno Kaskpeiti, Tarmo Kruusimäe and Märt Sults. On behalf of the rapporteurs, henn Põlluaas will make his first reading presentation. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U117	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, You have before you a draft submitted by the members of the four political groups of the Riigikogu, whose aim, in short, is to rehabilitate all persons and associations who were involved in the Estonian Union of Freedom Fighters and who were wrongly convicted, who were thus repressed. The explanatory memorandum also contains an overview of the historical events of that time, but I will nevertheless make a general summary of what has happened, because this is an extremely fundamental issue. This is not only a political issue, albeit a political one, but a direct remedy to morals, ethics and former injustices, which would be a very nice start for the next 100 years in our Republic's anniversary year. In short, who were the freedom fighters, and what was their organization like? These were men, and to a lesser extent women, who were directly involved in the birth of the Republic of Estonia, people who fought on the fronts of the War of Independence, who led these fights, as well as people who contributed to the birth of the Republic of Estonia in the rear. These were the patriots of the Estonian state and could be said, also the founders. The League of War of Independence has had several names throughout the ages. It was founded under the name of the central management, the central management of the freedom fighters, I guess, if I didn't make a mistake in 1929. It got quite a sympathy in society from the very beginning. The purpose of their activities was precisely to resist the political cow trade that had taken place in the Republic of Estonia, there were four governments in Estonia over a year, to oppose corruption and to defend democracy and the rights of the people. Paragraph 1 of their articles of association lists the same points that were stood for. Therefore, the accusations brought before them later are completely unfounded. But how did it come to be demonized? The reason was very simple. The presidential elections arrived in 1934 and the League of Freedom Warriors decided to participate in them. In the meantime, I did not mention one thing: At the beginning of 1934, the League of freedom fighters was shut down, accused of attempted coup d'état. This accusation was completely unfounded. To see this, they reorganized and the Estonian League of Wars of Independence was created, who came to the elections. And in the election, the situation was as follows. According to the law at the time, the presidential candidates had to collect support signatures. The candidates were Päts, Rei, Laidoner and Larka by the freedom fighters. Andres Larka received 52000 more grant signatures than all the other candidates put together. Previously, local elections were held, where freedom fighters received more than 40% of the votes in the cities. In Narva, Tartu and Tallinn, they received totally overwhelming seats in councils, a little less in rural areas. So the result of the presidential election would have been absolutely clear: the candidate for freedom fighters would have won. Previously, a number of constitutional variants had been put to the referendum, albeit by the Riigikogu and so on, but they were all rejected in the referendum. But the constitution presented by the freedom fighters was adopted with overwhelming approval. Shortly before the elections, a change of power was organised in Estonia and the freedom fighters were arrested, who, according to their previous votes, had the support of most of the society and who was then also the largest political organisation in Estonia: nearly 60,000 people. But there was a change of power, a union of freedom fighters was abolished, its leadership and a large number of other people were arrested. They were deprived of the right to participate in political activities. Whoever was elected to the councils, they were removed from there. The military were retired, taken from them their rank, etc. There was a trial in which they were accused of attempted coups, threats to security and fascism. None of these accusations were confirmed in court. As a result, most of these unjustly accused persons were forced to be released, but some leaders were left in custody for longer. This coup was carried out by Päts, Laidoner and the Rei who supported them, and as a result the Riigikogu was abolished, its work was interrupted, censorship and so-called state of defence were established, any freedom of organisation was taken away from the people. All the other parties were also liquidated and the presidential elections were canceled, which should have taken place then. In 1935, the freedom fighters submitted a draft to support the public initiative aimed at restoring the former situation, including the restoration of the Constitution. But the Head of State issued a decree that removed the right to organise referendums by means of a public initiative. One of the things that the freedom fighters have always been accused of is the desire of their hard hand and the alleged desire to introduce an autocracy. That's not true at all. If we look at the version of their constitution, it really is based on the principle of presidentialism, but we can also say that it is significantly more democratic than our constitution today. In the adopted Constitution, the election of the President had been given to the people and the people had been given the right to initiate referendums and draft laws on the basis of a popular initiative. Unfortunately, at the moment, we do not have such rights. As it was proposed to restore the legal situation in the country and to restore people's political rights and freedom of expression, after consultation with other political parties and the sounding of the ground, the leaders of the War of Independence were left with the opportunity to enforce the current constitution and constitutional democratic regime by means of a power grab. This was discussed on 7 December 1935 but was found to be unacceptable and abandoned. Nevertheless, a total of 772 persons were arrested by the political police and 155 of them were prosecuted. At the same time, many historians today who have studied this topic have considered it possible that the alleged attempted rebellion was a provocation of their political opponents, as well as of the police. 62 citizens were punished for a non-existent coup attempt with ten to 20 years of forced labour. All of them were deprived of all their rights, but in 1938 they were released with the Communists under the Amnesty Act. The aim was for them not to continue to act politically and to admit that they had lost their way. But amnesty is not the same as rehabilitation or restoration of these rights, surrendering ranks to military personnel. So their good name remained dirty. Later, a new amnesty law was passed at the request of the government of Vares-Barbarus, which restored the rights of politically repressed persons, particularly communists. But we know that the freedom fighters were actually among those who were the first to be repressed by the Soviet authorities and who were demonized throughout the occupation. All the leaders of the freedom fighters who were captured were executed by order of the occupying power. Of course, the accusations that these were bourgeois nationalists and fascists did not stop, even though these accusations had not been proved by the courts of the Republic of Estonia, where their questions were discussed and convicted, even though all such accusations were rejected. Absolutely no links with Italian fascists or German National Socialists could be proved. They were false accusations. The Union of the War of Independence stood precisely for democracy, as they confirmed. But the Soviets' power demonized these people unjustly and unjustly until the end. Today we have the opportunity to show that we are the rule of law, that we condemn injustice, whatever power of state is responsible for it. We condemn baseless repression and honestly look at our past. We will make amends not only to the injustices of which the occupation regime is responsible, but also to what has been done by those in our own power. This issue was discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and one of the biggest problems that arose was'rehabilitation'. It's like it's somehow linking us to some kind of Soviet power injustice and justice. In fact, that is not at all the case. The word'rehabilitation' does not exist in Estonian law, so this step cannot be regarded as opening old cases and re-evaluating these decisions. Not at all! Rehabilitation means restoring people's good name and honor according to the lyrics book. And that's what we're gonna do. We know that all those people who were accused at the time were wrongly accused. They were persecuted, unjustly repressed, and their good name stained. That's what we're gonna make up for today. We're not doing anything else. This bill, when it becomes a decision, has no other legal implications. There's no money to pay. We're just restoring the good name of honest people. As a Riigikogu, we have the full right and competence to do so. The Riigikogu has dealt with this type of rehabilitation in the past. Examples include two precedents for creating legislation: the law on the rehabilitation of out-of-court repressed and wrongly convicted persons in 1992 and the Act on the person repressed by occupation regimes adopted in 2003. Thus, such a decision would not be a precedent, but we would simply restore the good name of these people and make amends for the injustice of the past. It is a question of speaking our history out and, as I said at the beginning, of defending morality, ethics and democratic principles. We should have done so immediately after the Republic of Estonia regained independence. But let's do it now, on the 100th anniversary! If we ourselves cannot remedy the injustice that has ever been done in our own country, how can we demand that the injustice that has been done to us be corrected? We are also showing with this step that we remain steadfastly on the road to democracy and that such things, such unwarranted, unjustified persecution and injustice, can never happen in our country again. And even if, for some reason, some of these things were to happen again in Estonia, our decision today would give a clear signal: no injustice will remain in the bag and we are firmly on the side of justice and justice. I very much expect the Riigikogu to approve this decision. If there are really any terms, such as'rehabilitation', that should not really be, then we can smooth out these minor differences and finally take the decision we like at second reading. Our own honor still calls for this decision to be taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U118	Questions for the initiator of the draft. Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U119	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress, first of all, thank you very much for your very thorough presentation. It's not gonna be another 20 minutes. Of course, you did not have time to focus on the person and role of Artur Sirk, his persecution, or the fact that the political power at the time was also involved in deportation, the expulsion of the families of the freedom fighters to the islands. In fact, this is not living in the past at all. On the contrary, if we do not look at this period honestly, we would standardise such an attitude that some political power may begin to dismantle any movement as a result of political jealousy. The judicial authority at that time acted under the conditions of authoritarian political power, and this hall, too, is actually involved in the establishment of a silent era. So in any case, the Riigikogu has a moral and also legal basis...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U120	Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U121	The question was actually this comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U122	Indeed, it would take much longer to get into this subject. There are a lot of very important details here. At the same time, quite a lot has been written about it: Rein Marandi, Jaak Valge and other historians have gained access not only to the archives of Estonia, but also to the archives of other countries, which have indisputably revealed that, for example, the accusation made in the newspaper in 1933 claiming that the freedom fighters were about to make a coup, came directly from the Soviet Union embassy. The freedom fighters were also accused of fascism, but they had virtually no contact with fascism. Let's take the classic definition of fascism. The freedom fighters didn't want a hard hand, they didn't want any dictatorship, they didn't make any racial distinctions, etc., etc. The only thing common was antimarxism. This shows that all these accusations were unfounded, and it is not right to claim that their movement was undemocratic. If anyone's interested, there's a lot of material about it. And I am pleased to announce that the support group for the rehabilitation of freedom fighters established in the Riigikogu issues a book about Karl Pusta's biography. It also contains comments and will be a very interesting piece. For many of us, and especially for young people in Estonia, events at the time are distant, but thanks to the comments, the situation is very objective.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U123	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U124	Thank you. In fact, I think it is understandable to everyone that the accusations in Nazism and Fascism have been classic left-wing defamation campaigns against all nationalists throughout the ages, so I wouldn't waste any time on that. But I just want to stress the difference one more time, and I'm asking you to point out what the difference is. One thing was the amnesty that was announced in the late 1930s and in the 1940s, we are talking about rehabilitation. I have also heard objections that Parliament is not involved in rehabilitation. However, in my opinion, the Estonian Parliament has dealt with rehabilitation in the past. Is that true?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U125	Thank you. It's true. Amnesty basically means the cessation of people's imprisonment or forced labour, or whatever punishment they carry. They will be released, but that does not mean restoring their civil rights and their former position. It does not mean restoring their good name and honor, it simply means releasing them. The good name of the freedom fighters and their honor are still smeared. According to the documents at the time, they were still guilty, even though they were released. In 1940, indeed, the government of Vares-Barbarus restored their rights, but that is a conditional one. They were about to be arrested. And secondly, the laws, orders, regulations of the Vares-Barbarus government are null and void. It was still an occupation government. It is therefore a great honour for us today to take the decision to rehabilitate the freedom fighters and their organization. I think it's our duty, too. And I mentioned earlier that the Riigikogu has made such decisions in the past, has dealt with rehabilitation. So the precedents are completely there. There is absolutely no legal obstacle to restoring the honor and good name of these people.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U126	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U127	The most standard argument has been that the brats were fascists. This theory has been promoted by the Estonian propaganda service led by Oidermaa, promoted by the Institute of History of the Party of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Estonia, and by Lauri Vahtre, and by many others in the work 'Tuulepialmaa', such as the Aaduchintic TV series. But now the question arises who was interested in tagging it. Understandably, of course they weren't fascists, crap is to think about it. Whose interest was it to put that sign on them from the beginning? Let's go back in time. It was clear to Laidoner that he would have gone to prison if he came to power. He would have gone to prison in 1940. But did he have the strength to do so? I thought this propaganda was coming from somewhere. Oidermaa followed orders, Lauri Vahtre continues the tradition of the Communist history. Where did it start anyway?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U128	Yeah, that's a very good question. Of course, both Päts and Laidoner, whom you mentioned, were directly interested in this and involved in the liquidation of the League of freedom fighters and the repression of their members. Before the presidential elections, both Päts and Laidoner tried to become presidential candidates for freedom fighters. Laidoner even made a rather significant donation, but the freedom fighters decided to come out with their presidential candidates, and of course this caused both gentlemen a great deal of bitterness. But it also shows that neither of them really had any complaints against the ideology and aims of the freedom fighters. They didn't think it was a fascist organization, it was just a political organisation among others. But, yeah, where did these charges come from? Today, historians have found a great deal of archive data not only in Estonia but also in Russia. This has revealed how the briefing took place through the Council's Union embassy, and not just the briefing. Clearly, various fabricated materials were also presented, including articles published by the voice of the sots at the time, which gave Päts a good idea of continuing these accusations, although it was clear to everyone that there were no grounds for these accusations. So basically, the political opponents were behind everything, and not only from the left, but also from the right. It was indeed clear to everyone that the freedom fighters would win the presidential elections and that their share in the Riigikogu, whose elections had to come immediately, would be very large, likely to reach the majority. The political opponents found that it was better if one political force, who did not like them, who offered very great competition, was simply eliminated. If we approve of this decision today, we will give a clear signal that in the current Estonian society, with false, demagoguery and accusations which have no basis whatsoever, no political power can be removed or rejected simply, in front of the matter, behind you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U129	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U130	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! You said injustice wouldn't stay in the bag, but you know it will. In fact, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has issued a death sentence on our draft, it is sent to the trash despite the fact that there are still a few representatives of the Prime Minister's Party and the opposition ambassadors who are self-centered and think with their heads. My question is, why is this injustice likely to continue? In whose interest is it that these people are not wanted to be rehabilitated?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U131	Let's face it, the freedom fighters are all dead today. There is no man left alive who would have fought in the war of freedom. They've left us, and they can't stand up for themselves. However, there are many people in life who, in the final years of the first republic, were part of the structures of power, the Riigikogu, the government, and their supporters. The freedom fighters were demolished during the Soviet era for 50 years; they were struck over their forehead by an unjust temple, that they were fascists; and they continued the false propaganda of Päts and Rei. It is not surprising that there are people today who believe that something really was wrong with the freedom fighters. But you referred to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs who thought that the draft could be rejected. I am very surprised that the chairman of the committee, Marko Pomerants, told the BNS after this committee meeting, where I myself took part in voting, that the Commission decided to reject the draft on the basis of legal arguments. In fact, no legal arguments were discussed there. We were just discussing the meaning of'rehabilitation'. Even though we did not make any decision on this matter, we did not. So obviously you should ask your question to people who think that we had a very good policy before the war, and everything Päts did was right and clean like a spectaclestone. Unfortunately, we now know that despite this propaganda and the smearing of opponents, these things were still not so beautiful at the time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U132	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U133	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! Have you been familiar with the documents of the government in exile? Has any member of the board of the League of Liberty Warriors, or a simple member who escaped, turned to the Estonian government in exile with a request for rehabilitation? Has the Estonian government in exile dealt with this topic in any way?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U134	According to my records, there isn't. But a great many of the descendants of the members of the League of freedom fighters have turned to us with prayer to clear the memory of fathers and grandfathers and to give these people the honor they deserve.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U135	Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U136	Thank you, Chairman. Good waitress! Indeed, in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, there was one term for rehabilitation, but the other was whether or not the process has now ended: whether or not freedom fighters have been rehabilitated through the introduction of articles and certain documents. As far as I'm concerned, you were, I was, and I was, Igor Gräzin was also present at the committee meeting. But my question is that the Riigikogu has done so before, and before him, the Supreme Council also made decisions on rehabilitation on 19 February 1992. Doesn't the fact that we have the word'rehabilitation' in the legal dictionary mean that we actually have a definition of this term? If it isn't, do you think it should be done in some kind of law?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U137	Yeah, as a legal term, we don't use it in any law. But since it is a fully accepted term in the dictionary of the correct language, which has clear and incontestable content in it, there is nothing incomprehensible or double-thinking, I see no reason why we cannot use that word here. Indeed, all the more so since the Riigikogu has done so before.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U138	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U139	Thank you. Mr. Waitress! You have here mentioned the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mr Pomerants. I assure you that his communication with the media is a real miracle. In the last few months, he has given a very thorough interview several times, talking about what has happened in the Commission, only that the date of the Commission meeting has been the next day. But my question to you is this. You mentioned that you have information that the Riigikogu has adopted either laws or decisions or declarations that mention rehabilitation or basically rehabilitation, but without its term. I'd be happy to get their list. I can't find them. Can you name one?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U140	Yes, in 1992 the Riigikogu passed a law on the rehabilitation of out-of-court repressed and wrongly convicted persons. It is quite specific and intended to be repressed by the occupying regime. And the second, later, is the 2003 Act: it is the Act of the person repressed by the occupation regimes on the rehabilitation of these people. So, in this sense, neither does the current formation have any contraindications as legislator for a decision on the rehabilitation of the League of freedom fighters and their associated persons and organisations.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U141	Thank you. No further questions for the originator. Dear Riigikogu, before we proceed with this debate, we must fulfil a procedural obligation. I'll ask Martin Helme to come to me during this signal. Honourable Riigikogu, the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, has proposed to extend the session of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu until the 8 February session of the 4th working week until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Please take a stand and vote. There were 21 members in favour of the proposal, 28 against and 3 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Let's continue the debate! Helmut Hallemaa will make a report on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U142	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Constitutional Affairs addressed this issue on 23 January this year. The subject was the draft decision of the Riigikogu, which 13 members of the Riigikogu had submitted on 23 November last year. They must have signed it. Jüri Adams, Arto Aas, Helmut Hallemaa, Marko Pomerants, Henn Põllaas Jaak Madison, Mr Kalle Laanet, Lauri Luik, Mart Nutt, Mikhail Korb, Rein Randver and advisers took part in the meeting. Tiit Terik was absent. In addition to Henn Põllea as a member of the Riigikogu, Epp-Mare Kukemelk, Head of Communication of the Public Relations Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, and Vahur Kollom, Adviser to the Estonian Free Party Group, were invited. Henn Põlluaas did quite a lot of work for me as a Commission waitress; this subject was quite thoroughly covered. He also made an historic return to the Commission on a substantive tour and also made assessments. The connection between the freedom fighters and certain figures of the fascist movement was also discussed. In the main debate there were, in my opinion, two of the most important points, which have also been discussed for quite a while in this Chamber. The same term of rehabilitation and its legitimacy. A good colleague, Mr Adams, pointed out that in the final years of Soviet power, Soviet power itself used the term of rehabilitation to show itself in a better light, and therefore it is as if this term should not be used because it is a bad time for many. I don't think that's a reason. If we are not comfortable with this term, its meaning should be changed everywhere, so I asked the saalisk here for it, or for it to be removed from both the dictionaries and all documents. This argument is not good and cannot serve as a basis for rejecting the draft decision of the Riigikogu. In fact, several members of the Commission, including myself, as well as invited delegates, especially Igor Gräzin, stressed the need to address this issue. The subject is certainly important. As has already been pointed out here, in fact, in the documents adopted earlier in this Chamber, be they decisions or statements, rehabilitation has been used in view of those repressed by the occupying regimens. It has been extended to judgments of its own time. As regards the conclusion or not of this process, two members of the Commission and Igor Gräzin considered that in fact rehabilitation had not taken place in full. At least one place has certainly not been properly reflected: these are our history books. Whether these persons live or not, the textbooks may contain the truth. Commission chairman Marko Pomerants said that rehabilitation would not be reasonable and fair to take the form of such a decision. This opinion was previously expressed by Mart Nutt. That is how the proposal to reject the draft decision 552 at first reading was born. Before the consensus had been adopted, the proposal to put the draft on today's agenda and to appoint a waitress before you. Five members of the Commission voted in favour of the rejection, 2 against and 3 abstentions. By Marko Pomerants, Mart Nutt, Rein Randver, Mikhail Korb and Arto Aas. Henn Põllaas Jaak Madison's alternate and Helmut Hallemaa were opposed. Jüri Adams, Lauri Luik and Kalle Laane remained neutral. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U143	Any questions for the Commission's waitress? No, it's not. Thank you, Helmut Hallemaa! I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union Tarmo Kruusimäe. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U144	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good ambassadors! I usually try to act on a result-based basis. I would like us to look boldly at the grey spots of history and to give our own judgment today, as far as we have the best knowledge. Today it is good to say that for a hundred years we have treated those who have been involved in the war on freedom as bad people, but we have not treated them as very bad people. Let's go to a simple example right now. We wish to establish a monument to the founder of the Estonian state, to one of the leaders of the War of Independence, President Konstantin Päts, and to discuss his later actions. We cannot concentrate only on the moment that Päts hit the table on 28 November and said, "Let's fight back! ' This was an important moment. Today, however, we are talking about people who participated in the War of Independence, who came away, organized and made extremely many proposals on the Constitution in 1933. But we're ignoring the fact that, just as there were gymnastics groups at the time, the freedom fighters had their own squads of punching each other in the streets. So no matter how good someone's goal might have been, there's always a drop of tar in the game. I cannot agree with this decision that we are dealing with the establishment of a state of defence, which came from the constitution that came into force in 1934, as a coup d'état. Yeah, I put my hand on the bill because I think it has to be dealt with. I know it's been started three times, and the result has just been a head-on collision. There hasn't been any progress. This issue should therefore be resolved in a different way. For this, however, we need to find consensus in this Chamber. I am not wrong to say that today's Riigikogu is the face of Estonia today. Yes, I would like to say that the first hundred years have been our ancestors' faces and the next hundred years are our faces, and that is why everyone's contribution is important. It is a pity if we cannot reach an agreement on whether the founder of the country deserves to be remembered. Today, Estonia is a unique European country with no monument to the founder of the country, but we have a barilla for the former president of the neighbouring country. At the same time, I would like to congratulate the Riigikogu of the Republic of Estonia today, who on February 14 six years ago recognised all those who fought de facto for the restoration of Estonia's independence as freedom fighters during World War II. Maybe we should start now on our way back from World War II to the War of Independence. My suggestion is that we begin with the recognition of the Estonian state and arrive in 1933 and 1934. Yeah, I've been talking to my partymates about legal aspects. It's hard to get past them. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U145	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U146	So, wasn't the horse thief a horse thief in 1934? We have doubts that the judgments have been fabricated. However, history is an art of interpretation. It is very possible that for many, the decisions were fabricated, but it is also possible that someone gave false statements, false statements. Also, perhaps some of the quickest freedom fighters called for a armed coup, although this may not have been in line with the principles of the central organisation. In order not to cast a shadow on this period of the Republic of Estonia, the years 1934 to 1940, we cannot say that all the decisions of that period were undemocratic. Very many EKRE people have said that the 1938 Constitution was a good law, even though it had been adopted undemocraticly in view of the same rhetoric. In short, there are a lot of questions. I do not want to demagogue on this issue. I'm just going to mention the individual aspects, as well, from somewhere else. In 1934 were the courts of the Republic of Estonia unable to make adequate decisions? In such a frontal collision, running against the wall, we will not succeed in approaching the same thing narrowly. Men! I only signed because I respect all the men who did their best in the War of Independence so that we could move on and get things done. Some of them sacrificed their lives. I don't think we'll do it in this Riigikogu, but maybe the next one will do it. It is already a major step towards raising this issue in this composition. Let's put our heads together, there's a lot of good and smart people in this hall! If we can't go straight, we can go around. For me, the purpose is the means, and I want that result. That is why I want to say from this remote control that we do not achieve this consensus here, but the next Riigikogu, whoever you are, you take it to heart! The next hundred years will look like us! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-08_U147	Honourable Riigikogu! Today's trial is over. I'll see you in plenary on Monday. Closure of the sitting at 1 p.m.
