ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-19_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Monday of the 9th plenary session. Is there a desire to hand over drafts and inquiries? It is. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-19_U2	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu and good representatives of the people, have a nice working week! On behalf of six members of the Group of the Estonian Free Party, I have an inquiry to the Minister of Culture Indrek Saare. The inquiry is based on the address of the Estonian Choir Leaders' Association, the Estonian Choir Association, the Estonian Song and Dance Party Foundation and the Estonian Music Teachers' Association. This appeal is very serious in its content and does not deal at all with how to solve the problem of the remuneration of choir, orchestra and dance leaders, but raises a fundamental question for the members of the Riigikogu as well as a very important question of how to ensure the continuation of our tradition of singing and dance at a very high artistic level, as it has been so far. The inquiry is designed to obtain more detailed information on what has been done so far, how to proceed and whether the Minister has already dealt with this level so that it can be recognised that the continuation of the tradition of singing and dance at the current quality level is not only a matter for the Minister of Culture, but also means further promotion of Estonia's security issues, internal security and culture and education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-19_U3	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-19_U4	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the members of the Estonian Conservative People's Party, I have an inquiry to the Minister of the Interior, Andres Anvelt, concerning the provision of rescue services. Recent debates have revealed that the salaries of rescue workers are well below the average in Estonia, that rescue troops are manned at 71%, that there are no new people, and that the average age of workers is rising. All of this calls into question the provision of rescue services in the short or long term. This is entirely directly an issue of our internal security. In this regard, we have a number of questions for the Minister. What has the Ministry done and what is being done to normalise this situation? For what reason are the salaries of rescue workers low compared to average wages and salaries of other civil servants? The questions about equipment: is this sufficient and is its quality good enough? What will be done to prevent a serious crisis in the rescue sector? We are putting the Minister's heart to ensure that he does not simply refer to the lack of money in his reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-19_U5	I have accepted two inquiries. Under the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, we take them into procedure. Incoming check, please! 78 members of the Riigikogu are present. Adoption of the agenda. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the agenda for the 9th working week of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. 72 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of the adoption of the agenda, no one opposed, with 2 abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-19_U6	According to the confirmed agenda, after the hammer hit, there's a free microphone. Thank you. I'll see you tomorrow. Closure of the sitting at 3:06 p.m.
