ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Monday of the 11th working week of the VIIth plenary session.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U2	Honourable Riigikogu! On 5 April Enn Meri, an alternate member of the Riigikogu, joined the Riigikogu following the end of the mandate of Andres Ammas. In order for him to be able to work, he must take an oath of office. Next, we will listen to Enn Mere's oath. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U3	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good Riigikogu! By taking up my duties as a member of the Riigikogu in the composition of Riigikogu XIII, I swear to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U4	Honourable Riigikogu! In connection with the appointment of the Auditor General of the State of Janar Holm, we will hear the oath of Auditor General Janar Holm. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U5	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good Riigikogu! I pledge to remain loyal to the people of Estonia, the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order, and in accordance with my conscience, in accordance with the Constitution and the law, to carry out impartially all the duties for which I am obliged by the Office. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U6	Now I'm asking if anyone has any drafts or inquiries to hand over. Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U7	Good Chairman! Good Riigikogu! I have to hand over a draft of the Riigikogu's decision to amend the Riigikogu's decision 'Construction of the Special Committee on State Budget Control'. This bill says that instead of Andres Ammas, Enn Meri becomes a member of the special committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U8	As representative of the Government of the Republic, Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U9	Honourable Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching three draft laws today. Firstly, the draft law amending the State Pension Insurance Act and related amendments to other laws. Kaia Iva, Minister of Social Protection, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Secondly, the draft law amending the law on the use of funds from privatisation. Jaak Aab, Minister of Public Administration, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Thirdly, a draft law amending the Weapons Act, the Strategic Goods Act, the Explosives Act and other laws. Jüri Luik, Minister of Defence, will represent the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U10	No more wishes. I have adopted four drafts. Under the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, we will continue to deal with them. Incoming check, please! The assembly has 83 members of the Riigikogu. Adoption of the agenda. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the agenda for the 11th working week of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. There were 80 members of the Riigikogu in favour of approving the agenda, no one opposed, with one abstention. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U11	Let's start on the agenda. The first question has been made by Artur Talvik, Krista Aru, Külliiki Kübarsepp, Andres Herkel, Andres Ammas, Ain Lutsepp and Monika Haukanõmm. Arthur Talvik, on behalf of the heirs, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U12	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Our inquiry to the Prime Minister concerns the wood refining plant or, in general, the problems associated with its construction. In this question, we focus first and foremost on the rights of local authorities, as well as on nature conservation aspects, which have been discussed a great deal. We cannot get past the special plan as such and, of course, we are interested in what the relationship between the central government and the local government should be. We ourselves have defended it at every opportunity, or we have stood more for local people, local authorities, to have more decision-making power. However, the case of the refinery shows that this decision-making power does not exist very much and that the local authorities have also been excluded from the decision-making process. Although, yes, the planning law says that a new way of planning such as a special plan exists and in that case it is something like that. However, when laying down a special plan in the law, it was still thought of important infrastructure objects of national importance and probably not at least then it was not meant that one private operator could also place its own plant under this special plan. We are going to ask five questions, to the Prime Minister this time, because there is much to do with this planning and the Government has taken a decision on a special plan jointly. So let's listen to the answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U13	The inquiry must be answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U14	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Very honorable heirs! You have submitted an inquiry into the establishment of the infrastructure necessary for the construction and operation of the wood refining plant on the basis of the State's special plan. If you don't mind, I'll read the questions and then I'll read the answers. The first question: 'What is the real purpose of the special plan mentioned in § 27 of the Planning Act, when referring to the great public interest and technical circumstances, any company can apply for a special plan from the Government of the Republic? How is the local government's right to participate in the special plan guaranteed, and is this provision without prejudice to local decision-making? ' Pursuant to § 27 (1) of the Planning Act, the special plan of the State is drawn up for the planning of a building with a significant spatial impact, the location of which is of great national or international interest. This means that the building must be necessary for the functioning of the state, contribute to the country's strategic objectives (e.g. rail, high-voltage line, international airfield, etc.) or have such significant spatial impact that its location may have a significant impact on different areas of national interest or on its location by the wider public, possibly the whole country. The Government of the Republic shall consider the presence of a national or international interest in the activity or its location if it does not initiate or initiate a special plan of the State. These considerations are described in the explanatory memorandum to the plan initiation order for the specific plan of the wood refining plant. In accordance with the planning law, all stages of the preparation of the special plan must be included, I would stress that local authorities should be involved. According to the Planning Act, any views expressed during the preparation of the plan must be considered and the reasons for not taking into account. According to the Planning Act, the planner must balance different interests, including public interests and values, consider them in accordance with the planning principles and planning objectives and integrate them into the planning solution. The national interest plan shall be based on national interests, taking into account local interests and needs wherever possible. Therefore, the planning law would not be in line with a theoretical situation where, for example, the views expressed by the local authority would not be taken into account unduly. The second question: 'How has the relaxation of the standards laid down in the Forest and Nature Conservation Act to increase logging volumes contributed to forest biodiversity and the sustainable exploitation of wood resources? The purpose of the last amendment of the Forest Act was not to increase the volume of felling. The amendments made to the Forest and Nature Conservation Act contribute to the sustainable exploitation of wood resources and ensure the preservation of forest biodiversity. The fall in the tree age in fertile areas was due to the poor health of the stands in these areas, and the change was made in order to make it possible to obtain more valuable wood instead of low-quality firewood. Thus, changing the norm will ensure better enhancement of the wood supply. In addition, the restrictions on security and selective cutting were relaxed, as the restrictions previously in force did not ensure the renewal of the forest and thus very little use was made of these felling species as possible alternatives to clear cutting. The conditions for the selection and security cutting of protected natural sites and coastal and coastal zones were not relaxed, but these requirements were introduced into the Nature Conservation Act. The conditions of protected areas are therefore different from those established by the forest management rules outside protected areas. The amendments to the Forest Act introduced the obligation to maintain trees in addition to clear cutting in the case of security and selective cutting. Perennial trees are trees designed to ensure biodiversity diversity. The last amendment to the Forest Act removed the maximum size limit for valuable habitats, which in turn contributes to the preservation of forest biodiversity in both private and state forests, as all valuable habitats in the state forest are strictly protected and management restrictions are imposed on areas where the forest owner has concluded a long-term contract with the State. With the amendment to the Forest Act, the Government of the Republic was also given the possibility to limit the surface area of the reforestation bar in order to ensure the natural balance and sustainable use of forests, if there are reasonable grounds to assume that the volume of cuttings may exceed the growth of the forest being managed. The third question: 'How does the annual felling volume of 15 million cubic metres, which was unthinkingly approved in the forestry development plan, affect the balance of Estonian forests? Does the Government of the Republic consider it reasonable to clear an area of 48000 hectares each year? According to the Estonian Forest Development Plan for 2010 the optimal volume of wood from innovation and thinning cuttings was 12.6 million cubic metres per year. In fact, between 2001 and 2010, on average, 7.8 million cubic metres of timber were harvested per year, representing 62% of the optimal volume. For various reasons, a cutting rate of 48 million cubic metres less than planned was made during the previous development plan period, which was the recommended cutting volume of the circa for four years. This unused harvesting potential accumulated further in the current development plan period (2011 to 2020). The average annual forest use volume approved by the Government of the Republic and the Riigikogu is based on statistical forest inventory data and different wood use scenarios. The development plan provides an overview of how one third of forests met the current criteria for innovation cutting at the time the development plan was drawn up and another 10% will reach this level during the development plan period. The plan's plan for felling has been designed on the basis of the existence of wooded areas that meet the criteria for cutting in forests managed. Wood stands in strictly protected wooded land are excluded from the calculation. The development plan sets out the optimal and maximum use of the moderate scenario: 12 million and 15 million cubic metres. The average volume of felling during the period 2011-2016 was 9.9 million cubic metres per year. The average area of clear cutting during the same period was significantly lower than your reference, reaching 29400 hectares. The increase in all forests compared to the volume of felling was 16 million cubic metres in 2016, 14,1 million cubic metres in managed forests. Question 4: "What is the risk of establishing a refinery for the biodiversity of the forest and continuing to exploit the supply of wood? ' The risks associated with the construction of a wood refinery are covered by planned studies and environmental impact assessments. However, if logging volumes begin to exceed the growth of managed forests, a mechanism has been established in the Forest Act, under which the Government of the Republic has the right to restrict the area of the cutting bar to ensure the natural balance of the forest. This is where there are reasonable grounds to assume that the volume of felling may exceed the growth of the forest to be managed. Question 5: How can the objective set out in the East-Estonian river basin water management plan be met as a result of the construction of a wood refining plant to reach the good status of Lake Emajõe and Lake Peipsi by 2027 if, according to the developers, the wood refining plant cannot be built with a closed water cycle provides an additional amount of phosphorus and other chemicals to those bodies that lead to an increase in pollution and deterioration rather than improve the status of these bodies of water? East-Estonian basin 2015. According to the 2009 Water Management Plan, Lake Emajõgi and Lake Peipsi are considered poor. The combined status of the river Emajõgi has been assessed as poor due to the presence of barium and monobasic phenols. Since the increased levels of monobasic phenols have not been detected in subsequent monitoring, it can be assumed that there was a local fuel pollution. Too high levels of Barium have also been detected in the following years, but this is not only characteristic of the Emajõgi River, it has been detected throughout Estonia in many rivers. Today, it is not clear what could be the cause of the higher content of barium. It is not excluded that there is a high natural content. The poor condition of Lake Peipsi is due not only to barium but also to the higher nitrogen and phosphorus content. The Barium is not characteristic of the waste water from the pulp industry. The waste water from the pulp industry has relatively low levels of plant nutrients, but high emissions may nevertheless pose a serious risk of deterioration of the state of the water pool. Therefore, first of all, I would like to stress that it is necessary to examine the level of purification at which the water body of Emajõe and Peipsi would not deteriorate and the objectives of the water management plan could also be met. Only then can it be analysed whether the proposed technology is applicable in the region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U15	Questions for the Prime Minister. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U16	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Prime Minister! It must be acknowledged that the behaviour of the government in relation to the possible establishment of this plant has been relatively ignorant and has, in my opinion, put the company in a very difficult position. But I was also concerned by the statement by Minister Jaak Aab that if Tartu wanted to, he could speak with us. You, too, mentioned the opportunity for the local government to have a say, not in plural, but in singularity. Does this mean, Honourable Prime Minister, that if the factory comes 50 metres from the border of Tartu, then Tartu may look from the bus window to see that this factory is being discussed, but does not have any legal opportunity to participate in the creation or the formation of this factory?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U17	Thank you. You're asking the right question. Tartu has been very critical of this wood refinery. Both the City Council of Tartu and the Mayor of Tartu have given a steam fire, I would say so, and said that this special plan must be completed. That was point one. Point two, I really said in my response to the questions raised by the Free Party, that I would not theoretically imagine that if the local community were to give its opinion, this would not be taken into account. No one has ever made such a decision that such a wood refinery will come to the area. It has to be said here that the Planning Act was adopted on 28 January 2015, and was launched at the end of 2013. Chapter 4 was introduced, with §27.54 talking about special planning and the involvement of municipalities in the decision-making process. This is the only basis on which the current government is actually based and on which it is based. Now I will answer your question: if it is only 50 metres away, although legally outside this local government, can we look, as you said, only from the bus window? No, I think, on the contrary, you have to say your opinion. Personally, I have said that I am very grateful to the people of Tartu and also to the people of the community who have expressed their opinion. This is certainly one and a very important basis for decision-making when we have reached this phase of either going forward, say, with a detailed planning solution or not.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U18	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U19	Thank you, good Chairman. Good Prime Minister! In this whole saga, I personally find it very incomprehensible why the government is putting in place a special plan under conditions where no analysis has actually been carried out. Secondly, in this Chamber too, once we have discussed forestry, a number of scientists have said that we have one big contradiction, we have not been able to agree on a formula for growth. At present, it is only possible to agree on a forestry development plan to be drawn up for the next period. The question still remains, why does the government rush ahead with real analyses, real agreements? We should not have doubts and reservations, and we should not develop and deepen our distrust of the government's actions.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U20	Thank you. I will come back for a moment to § 27 (1) of the Planning Act, to which I referred to your inquiry at the beginning of your reply. It says that the country's special plan is designed to plan a building with a significant spatial impact, with a high national or international interest in the choice or operation of its location. In any case, it is a building with significant spatial impact, in any case. Nor can we deny that there is a great national and international interest in it. This will in any case mean a large investment. You said we were in a hurry. I'm not in a hurry. I mean, it's kind of a phase. A special plan will be initiated first, then analyses will be carried out. Impact assessments, disputes, public procurement, etc. are currently taking place. This whole thing takes its time. After that, the starting points and the intention to develop an impact assessment are being drawn up, for which it is currently believed that this could take place by the end of this year. Following this, the pre-selection of the location is expected to take place in the second quarter of 2019. Then the question is whether or not detailed planning will begin. This whole thing should last at least until autumn 2020. As I have always said, it is based on what comes out of these analyses and studies, including the opinion of the local community, no matter who is in the future government, either you, Mr Sõerd, or you, Mrs Hatter. I am absolutely convinced that this will be the case. The second part of your question was about what we have debated very much in society. This is what the felling volume is and what it needs to be compared with. Is that, like I said, a purely straight comparison, or is it something more? Personally, I think we should hold a serious debate. For example, I do not think it is right to add Finnish people to the forest, because anyway, but there will never be a chop for the purpose of producing anything from this wood. That was point one. Point two. I think we should seriously negotiate the so-called clear cutting, but we should also negotiate the slow cutting. I think it should be considered, given the modern machinery, the mechanisms and the high levels of power, whether in certain places an alternative to selective cutting is conceivable. So, in my opinion, the volume of felling must also take into account the components that I have pointed out. If you just say that this is the volume of felling and this is an increase, it's not quite right. I think it is also important to point out under the increase what is actually this economically mature forest that can be cut down. I think it would be very reasonable to widen this discussion.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U21	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! A few weeks ago, the Spectator announced that a meeting of four ministers of Est-For and the Government of the Republic was held already in February 2017. These ministers were from all coalition parties. It turns out that this is a rather comprehensive protocol, which states, among other things, that the Government of the Republic was asked for the same decision to initiate a special plan and a number of other steps needed to build this plant. Were you aware of this meeting and the content of this meeting at the time? How do you explain that this protocol only became available to the public more than a year later? Why was the creation of a company so secretly discussed among the ministers of the Government of the Republic? As members of our Riigikogu, for example, did not know about this.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U23	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U24	Thank you. I really don't know how to comment on how some protocol gets out or doesn't. If you're interested, we'll have to find out. Well, let me know. On 11 May 2017, the Government of the Republic initiated the drafting and impact assessment of the country's special plan for the planning of the wood refining plant and the infrastructure necessary for its operation. The preparation of the country's special plan and impact assessment is organised by the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry of Finance really submitted this proposal for the special plan, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Ministry of the Environment gave their views on it, who both thought that the launch of this special plan could go on, and so did the Government of the Republic. If you have a question about any specific meetings and protocols, please forward it. We need to find out as much as I can.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U25	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! You have stressed the importance of the local government's opinion and the need for coordination, both today and in your previous speeches. The residents of the city of Tartu, the council of Tartu and the mayor of Tartu have made their wish to stop the special plan very clearly. Why is the government currently ignoring the opinion of all these bodies and residents of the city of Tartu and stating that special planning will continue? Shouldn't the beginning of this whole process have been the question of having a special plan drawn up and then starting with communication?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U27	Thank you. It seems to me that it is also my duty to highlight this argument, which is theoretically written on the plus side of this wood refining plant, that why we have this debate here today at all. First, it is believed that the plant would make a significant contribution to the enhancement of wood resources. It would certainly add to GDP growth beyond Harjumaa. At the moment of initiation, MKM predicted that the construction of the yard would increase GDP at current prices by 1 to 1.3%, and would provide additional strength and additional acceleration for our exports. Jobs, highly paid jobs will certainly be created in this plant. This is the positive side. Now the other side you brought out. I too watched live, as much as the duties allowed, but I also looked after this meeting of the Tartu City Council. I think that the fact that the City Council of Tartu called such a meeting was very right. That's the way it's supposed to be. Most likely, I don't think that's the last good way of expressing opinions. Eventually, they made a decision. You asked why we didn't do what the mayor of Tartu wanted us to do. Indeed, the mayor of Tartu has said that under no circumstances should research progress. When I looked at this meeting of the Tartu City Council, I also saw those representatives of the University of Tartu who said that they had to study and that they had to go on with research and impact analyses. True, there are people who are better acquainted with the University of Tartu in this hall, but I think that the University of Tartu is... I don't know if he's just broken, but he's got different points of view. Some say it the same, others say it differently. In my opinion, we cannot ignore all initiatives, initiatives in Estonian society. It all actually started with the intention of investing in the order of EUR 1 billion. We do not have many initiatives in Estonia that come up with such an idea. Whether they invest one billion or not is a question of their own. Generally speaking of positive effects, I would say that the desire to earn our timber is not a bad principle at all. That is the right principle. The truth is, what I said to Mrs Hatter is, do we really have that much raw? I mean, the volume of felling and growth. Are we comparing comparables or should something be separated from one comparable? I also gave some examples. We should consider different cutting options, which I have pointed out. Why did the government decide that? After all, we considered the town of Tartu's proposal at our last study meeting. There is no reason or study that says no, and there is no way it can go on. In my opinion, it makes sense in life to start with research and analysis and then make a decision. I stress once again, and I am not tired of stressing it, I think it should be emphasised that the opinion of the local community is, in any case, important. But the local community must also finally be able to make a decision on the basis of some impact analyses and documents. I have pointed out that I believe that there must be a principle or a principle of sustainable development here. I honestly think so. We may have forgotten that. This means what part of the economy, environment and social we will find in this project. If this part is still very inclined in some direction, for example towards an economy at the expense of the environment, then I think that the principle of sustainable development will not allow this project to move forward.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U28	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U29	Thank you, Mr President. Very honourable Prime Minister! The Free Party has repeatedly made proposals in recent years, and I think that sensible proposals, for example, to amend the law on the organisation of local government, as well as the law on the financial management of the local authority, in order to better guarantee the rights of the opposition, for example, and to give it the opportunity to speak up, to fight corruption in the same way. In most cases, the Government of the Republic has taken the view that we are unduly interfering with the autonomy and decision-making powers of local governments. However, if a private operator now comes up with a proposal to establish a special plan, the Government of the Republic will support it. In the example of Tartu, however, it seems that the autonomy, decision-making and decision-making powers of the municipality are currently being restricted. My question is this: why is there no consistent position of the Government of the Republic, what is this autonomy and decision-making power? This issue is very clearly a matter of local authority competence.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U30	Thank you. As I have answered you, I see no possibility that the interests of the local government will not be taken into account here. The rules or arrangements also provide that the opinion of the local authority or community must be heard. I understand what you're referring to. You refer to the so-called veto right that if the local government says no, it does not come here, then it should be. Theoretically, we can put this veto right in the law. Then we have to put 79 vetoes in there for different subjects. If a landfill or cemetery is built or I don't know what else, then in these things, the interest of the community usually arises both in terms of opposition and in terms of sympathy. I remember the construction of the Tallinn landfill. I think in 1991 the first decision was made that it had to come to Jõelähtm, and it was finally realised in the early 2000s. I think that Estonian society could move forward, not as I say, with prohibitions and orders, but rather with dialogue. That's all I can say. I can say today that if this special planning process reaches the table of the Government of the Republic in the middle or end of 2019 or in 2020 I do not know who the Prime Minister is at that time, and if I had the opportunity to decide, that would certainly be a very big argument for me.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U31	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U32	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good Prime Minister! Here we have already mentioned this EUR 1 billion investment. We are all in favour of investment and we are all in favour of jobs, especially outside Tallinn, but I would like to talk a little bit more about this billion. I have been told that investors have asked for government support for the development of infrastructure for their own plant, they have talked about specific things and specific amounts. Can you assure me that you have received the information that investors have asked for, what they want and what amounts we are talking about for the taxpayer?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U33	Thank you, Reverend Martin Helme! I don't think there's such a willingness today to say if this factory is coming. To talk, I don't know that it means so many million to the road or electrical supply, or whatever it is, pure speculation. Once again, I say that such things must be assessed, including, perhaps, the level of public burden, the extent of tolerance, if any, the public sector is willing to contribute to a certain reference system. In any case, he must bet there, because it is clear that it comes from public space. The question is what is the interaction between the economic, social and environmental sectors. So the answer to you is this: to say here that it's so many or many million, certainly can't. That, I think, hasn't anyone put into the charts yet or made that kind of records. I would like to emphasise once again: the Government of the Republic has not decided that a wood refining plant will come. There is no such decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U34	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U35	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! I absolutely agree that dialogue is much more needed in Estonian society, and on the other hand I am very sad that it seems that the dialogue between the city of Tartu and the central government of the state has not been the best. But I also think that more could be negotiated with communities, local authorities and all other institutions instead of involving. You mentioned something interesting. Indeed, a rather broad-based agreement could be made for this national agreement on the extent to which our forests are harvested and grown, and which model is it. The Free Party has made a manifesto of forest peace and we have called for only 6 million cubic metres to be cut during this period. Do you agree with this principle until such time as a new national agreement has been reached?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U36	Good Arthur! You're a good politician, you make me say yes or no in this Riigikogu chair. No matter what I say, you realize it doesn't have any grip right now. It is good that you have come up with this proposal. In my opinion, the Free Party has come up in XIII with a number of important issues that actually address society. Without humor or joke, I think we should discuss completely whether this harvester's ability always outweighs what I talked about in the case of clear cutting: the same time-scale logging that we are not really discussing, the selective cutting that will certainly take the most time, but the picture of the forest will last again, must be taken into account. So I support this discussion. To say here whether it is 6 million or 8 million cubic metres or something else, I do not think it will be possible to sign this proposal. Keeping this subject focused, I think, is very sensible. Now I come to the introduction to your question. The communities must be consulted. I stress once again that I congratulate the Tartu City Council, its members and its chairman for convening this sitting, for this debate, for providing this input. But it seems to me that all of this has been happening in this sense, like, really loudly, I'm not saying that it's just, I'm saying, really hard on the surface of emotions. We don't have any research. I can bring out the words of a university professor from this same discussion of the City Council of Tartu. That's not what he said. I remember that he began his presentation on the question of whether we want to be like Finland and Sweden and even Scandinavia and went on from there. I think that in the coming months, whether six months or more, it is necessary to have a serious debate and also to have specialists assess the matter. I think this assessment is a very important input for further action. If this assessment is harsh... Most of all, we fear harshness at the expense of the environment, but also, I think, at the expense of the social sphere. The question is, how big is the bolt? Today, in the 21st century, there are so many solutions that help to save the environment significantly more. I understand what our emotions are based on. Even my generation's emotions are based on certain pulp plants that were 30 years ago. There was one right here in the centre of Tallinn. So I think these things should be appreciated. Of course, this information must be fully public, it must be shared with the public, then final decisions can be made.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U37	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good Prime Minister! I will continue with Mr Herkel's question. He referred to a memorandum or document made public by the Spectator, which had not been published before, and which shows that already a year ago, the developers of the pulp mill provided ministers with a long list of wishes, which sought inter alia a change of laws, rapid processing of applications and also a change in the policy of the State Forest Management Centre. In itself, wishes may be made, but the fact that the government has essentially taken this memorandum and moved to it step by step is pretty startling. Is there a document and a memorandum that has already described the expected results of the studies and the government's decision to establish the plant? If you say no, how can we really be sure that this is the case here or in Tartu?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U39	Thank you, dear Keit Pentus-Rosimannus. Of course, there is no such document, memorandum or letter to which you refer. But I think it's very fair that you give up your opinion. You're a former Minister of the Environment, and your opinion matters anyway. In my opinion, very many of your party's leading politicians have made it clear that they do not support it. True, I have read the position of the soon-to-be chairman of your party; he has said that it should be analysed. I think that the whole debate must take place both in the party and in society. How could you believe me? All I can do is look you in the eye and tell you that there are no agreements to which you refer, as if we know what the results of the study are, or whether and when this plant will come, that this memorandum has been signed by the Prime Minister or that such a letter has been sent. No, it's not.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U40	Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U41	Thank you, good manager. Prime Minister! I would like to congratulate you, without any irony, for your consistency that you have said that these studies must be continued. I do not think it is possible to debate this subject without any analyses or studies. Unlike what you have decided to do without any studies on free public transport, you are now saying that this must be done differently. It's very positive. You have decided that these studies will continue. When exactly will these studies be started? When can we say yes, the current government has said that these studies are now starting? What timetable do you plan or leave to start with the next government?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U42	Thank you. I won't. I say in this way that this government, which is now in office, in the anniversary year of Estonia, does not have a single hour to tick or just hang out and talk honey talk. We need action here! It has to be admitted that in these 17 years there are still quite a few things that have not been resolved in this Estonian country. As a skilled politician, you introduced free public transport in addition to the theme of the wood refining plant. We can talk about it, but I don't think you want to talk about it. But a few words, because the request of a member of the Riigikogu is always an obligation for a member of the government. Only the President of the sitting of the Riigikogu can intervene here and say that they are going by the subject. You were very good at linking this to the issue of the wood refining plant. I really think that transport needs a better solution, a tighter schedule, I think a better ticket price is also needed. I really am a public transport believer. This is also very environmentally friendly, by the way. It's the same question. In any case, public transport is much more environmentally friendly than passenger transport: road load, air pollution. So this is a very, very important nuance. Now for the schedule. I actually answered that question, but I can answer it again, it's not a problem. The starting points and the intention to develop an impact assessment should be completed in October 2018, as is currently the case. After all, if there are conditional sentences everywhere, the pre-selection of the location will take place and, as I said, this decision will remain in the second quarter of May 2019. If progress is made, a detailed planning solution will be made in one location and the plan will be established. This is unlikely to happen until September 2020. That's it. If you ask who else is involved to give you an even better overview, these are the Agricultural Board, the Technical Surveillance Authority, the Health Board, the Maritime Administration, the Rescue Board, the Police and Border Guard Board and the Aviation Authority. The local authorities of the Riigikogu, Tartu and Viljandi counties, environmental associations, bodies with a legitimate interest, such as Estonian Railways, persons whose rights may be affected, I imagine that these are people whose place of residence or homelocks this plan covers, and those who wish to be involved, active citizens. This is more or less the timetable and the stages. Once again, I say that all of this has to do with the fact that at one point at all, this is what will be achieved if, after analysis, the opinion remains that it can be taken forward. But the opinion of your colleague, Keit Pentus-Rosimud, may well prevail. He says we shouldn't go any further. I think this analysis should find out.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U43	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good Prime Minister! In my time, I was taught at school that practice was supposed to be a criterion of truth. Is this planned factory something unique in the world, or are there others? Are we a step ahead of what we have? Maybe somewhere in the world you can see what kind of water comes out of that plant and what comes out of those chimneys? Perhaps instead of relying on research, it is possible to take practice somewhere, and instead of expensive research, it would be easier.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U45	Thank you. You rightly pointed out the point of this expensive research. It has been one of the fundamental principles of the state ordering these studies, but taxpayers' money is not put in there at the moment. It is true that if additional activities are needed, a decision must be made. Could practice be a very important part? Mr. Põldaru, I say yes, absolutely. I, too, have asked some of my fellow officials when talking about air pollution, how is it in the rest of the world? This factory, I think, wouldn't have any of that specialty. These technologies definitely exist, even near here. The specific issue is in certain nuances about how many of them have been established and built in 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020. As we know, technology is evolving all the time. The industrial revolution 4.0 is where we are going. But I think that in addition to the theoretical basis, the practice should be assessed is certainly correct.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U46	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U47	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! We're complaining every day that there's no manpower. Has the government already done analyses of how much it takes to build this plant and how much it takes to keep this plant running and where it comes from?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U48	Thank you. Yeah, I've heard preliminary estimates of how many people this factory could create a job, they're very original. How much should the workforce be demanding is that this factory is ready to build, no, I have not seen such an analysis. If you ask where this workforce should come from, I think that my first duty, which I take, is to help as many people in Estonia as possible who are working outside Estonia today, for example in Finland or other countries, return to Estonia and have confidence that they have a place of residence and a job and that children have a day-care and school place. I am talking about the fact that we have to work to improve the quality of life in Estonia in terms of daily editing. That's what I'm willing to work for. This is also the reason why I say that the economic growth shown last year by our good entrepreneurs must be as inclusive as possible; it must reach all the families and people of Estonia. For the Estonians to return to their homeland, I stand in any case. In addition, there is another resource: how much can we bring to the labour market those of our own countrymen who, for some reason, are not working, whether it is because of a certain disability, age or some other social problems and issues. Here, too, I think there's enough slack and a vachant to work for it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U49	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U50	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! The East-Estonian basin's water management plan sets out the goal of reaching the good status of Lake Emajõgi and Lake Peipsi by 2027. Additional load on the river basin comes from the Est-For factory. Peipsi is not known to be an Estonian inland waterway body. To what extent has this been taken into account in the specific plan? Is it possible to have problems with our eastern neighbour here?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U51	Thank you. I come back to the first sentences of this very necessary questioning answer. It said: 'The choice or operation of which is of great national or international interest. " You just referred to one aspect. Of course, it is a question that crosses national borders. Can there be setbacks? Why not, of course you can. That must be taken into account. So the answer is, it has to be dealt with, but if you answer theoretically, yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U52	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U53	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! You mentioned such a thing that you can't be satisfied with the situation in Emajõgi and Peipsi water. Now, when this special authorisation was decided, was there a question of what measures should first be taken to improve the water situation even if this plant did not come? That's one. Secondly, if this plant comes, how much will the taxpayer have to contribute to improve the water condition of the Emajõgi River? I'd like to ask for more. There have been rumors that taxpayers will have to pay for all these communications, roads and routes and so on, in short, that the government will have to pay for them. There's been some 300 million talk. Was it also a matter of more specific that whether these owners...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U54	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U55	... will build all these extra communications...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U56	Thank you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U57	Or are they on the shoulders of all our people?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U58	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U59	In any case, I would like to thank you for drawing attention to this very important issue. I do not think that this is an option for such a large investment. You mentioned a bigger investment than the Rail Baltic project, which is currently planned at 268,5 million, you mentioned 300 million. Indeed, you rightly said that who will have it on their shoulders, on the shoulders of taxpayers. No, I don't support that. I don't think this is the right direction. If the private sector is prepared to make such a huge investment and if the country can be a serious partner, say, with bureaucracy and paperwork, then that must certainly be done. For example, these same analyses and studies. I think your groupmate, Martin Helme, asked if it had been calculated how much this investment would be then. Basically, it was the same question. It is not ready to say this order of magnitude today. It's almost a third of the investment. I don't think that makes any sense. I certainly don't support it. The first part of your question was about Lake Emajõgi and Lake Peipsi. Improvements to the state of water there must be carried out continuously and at all times when the plant is not there. When this factory comes there, it is an obligation that I believe must be borne by businesses and the business sector, by investors. Air pollution and water pollution must be kept to a minimum.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U60	The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. Thank you, Prime Minister. I'm opening negotiations. Arthur Talvik, on behalf of the heirs, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U61	Thank you, Chairman! Thank you, Prime Minister. When you draw conclusions from your answers, you might say that there is no very hopeless situation, perhaps we can come up with an interesting solution. But there are some points that I would like to emphasise in this debate again and again. The first point is the autonomy of the same local government. This is something that will be taken out of their pocket very quickly during the debate on various topics. The government also says that, oh-oh, there is nothing we can do, here is the autonomy of the local government. Now, at the same time, this autonomy of the local government is being run over and a very nice road called'special plan' has been found. This is one thing that has highlighted one such weakness in Estonian society. This place is precisely that our negotiating skills are very weak, they are very weak at community level, at local government level, at government level and in negotiations between all three parties. We are talking about inclusion, but in fact, inclusion has become a total formality. To be honest, I try to use this word very little, and I would like to replace it with the word 'negotiation', which is a purposeful activity of two or more parties. Another thing that the Free Party has always pointed out: here it is not just a matter of one factory, whether or not it is a yes, the question is much more complicated. When we come to the basics, so to speak, how much of the forest resources we actually have to deserve. Of course I'll tell everyone who thinks cellulose is the last degree of merit, that it isn't, it's a semi-fabricate. There should be more factories here to ensure that this highest level of merit is maintained in Estonia and in Estonia the money that will later arise when selling this goods. Perhaps the resource that will be deserved is the question that has not been resolved in Estonia today. It is very clear that the 15 million cubic metres in the development plan are intolerable for Estonia or the Estonian forest. There cannot be so much chopping in Estonia. That is what many international organisations say, pointing out that we are hurting ourselves. The proposal of the Free Party is, once again, to find a national agreement, to say what types of felling are, I would stress that by type. Because we have species that could be cut very much and which, in actual forest statistics, give a lot of 'forest area'. But on the other hand, there are very valuable species that are most under pressure. That's understandable, too. Secondly, the growth formulas or the models just as well are not fully agreed, and that should not be the case. We therefore call on everyone to join our Forest Peace Manifesto, which says that until that moment, until we have not reached such a national agreement, probably the new development plan could be this national agreement, we could limit ourselves to cutting up 6 million cubic metres. In any case, we thank the Prime Minister for answering our questions. I very much agree that without dialogue we cannot move forward in our small Estonia. Much more dialogue is needed and not only formal engagement, but in the form of dialogue negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U62	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U63	Can I have some more time now, please? Just in case.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U64	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U65	Maybe you won't need it. Dear Speaker! Good Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say right from the start that me and our party are not in themselves against industry. We are also not specifically against the timber industry. But before we decide to be in favour or against a particular plant, we want to make things clear to ourselves. Unfortunately, today's discussion did not help to create this clarity either. It continues to be quite clear to us that the location currently proposed is not appropriate. There doesn't have to be any more reason than the fact that the local people are opposed. And not just one or two local landowners or some kind of life-insurrectionist, but if practically the whole city of Tartu and its surroundings have unanimously said that they do not want this plant there, instead of chopping their heads against the table and saying that we are thinking, but in fact they are working to build it there, they should look for alternative places. Similarly, it is clear that we have not been honest about the technology, the volume and all the consequences of the construction of the plant, because there are exactly two kinds of information. Firstly, it is said that technology and volumes have been clearly selected and established and do not change. At the same time, as propaganda, the public is told about how everything is still open and undecided. Well, two things at a time. Both of these things can't be true at the same time, one of them must be wrong. This means that this process is still very disturbing in this pulp plant, and very disturbing is the way this thing has been done. In my opinion, too, during today's debate, it was quite clear that things were being driven from the wrong end, started from the wrong end, and going the wrong way. So, one of the most acute issues, which has not yet perhaps come into focus, we are talking, above all, about environmental issues and cutting volumes, but still one of the most important issues is this investment itself, the financial side of this matter. There is talk of a billion investments. Our group has a meeting ahead of us with these investors, where I hope we will have more precise answers. But, in general, there is reason to fear that we are not actually talking about a billion investments, but that we are talking about setting up a business with a sales value of about a billion, where investors risk their money in very small amounts. The first point is the contract or agreement concluded with RMK, which guarantees certain quantities at a price, which is not done in absolute terms in the tender procedure or on market terms. There are a number of very bad consequences. One is that it is as if it turns off private forest owners who are being told at the same time, blinking, that they can also start selling their timber at a better price. But maybe you can't! The second is that RMK is the property of all of us, of all the people of Estonia, and if very large quantities go down even a little bit, then it is essentially stealing from the people. You have to keep an eye on something like this very carefully. Another important issue is the establishment of the same infrastructure. It is well known from reliable sources that investors have said very specifically that the construction of a plant requires the state's contribution to the construction of infrastructure. I asked the Prime Minister if such a contribution had been asked and what had been asked. All right, we may not know the amounts yet, because it would require an accurate location, we really need to know how many kilometres of roads, how many kilometres of power lines, what kind of power etc. are needed, but it is clear that these are all very expensive things. We are talking about very large sums of money. If it turns out now that a large part of the investment is actually made through the construction of the taxpayer's infrastructure and through the provision of guarantees or guarantees or concessions by RMK, then this billion investment will be much smaller than a billion and a large share of it will actually be held by the taxpayer. If this factory is built with the help of the taxpayer, then what happens to it, to whom it goes, to whom it is sold? Maybe the Finns, maybe the Germans, maybe the Chinese. In any case, whoever it is sold to will receive all the money that comes from the sale, not with their own money, but with the help of the taxpayer. Such a scheme is absolutely unacceptable; it requires the creation of hedging mechanisms. Third or fourth very important aspect. In a situation where there is a very serious shortage of labour in Estonia, especially in the construction sector, we are very concerned that this factory is being built with the aim of bringing foreign labour into Estonia from Ukraine, in considerable numbers. We already have a very serious problem with the introduction of labour or temporary labour from Ukraine, Russia and Belarus. If we are in a situation again, as we were during the phosphorite war, where, yes, the environment was one important aspect, but Russification was another important aspect, then we cannot absolutely agree that the next move to Russification will be made for the construction of one timber plant. So if you get answers to these questions today, unfortunately, they didn't get here, when these things start to come to light, then you can also decide whether this investment is good or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U66	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U67	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, In the meantime, I felt that my personal question was also being discussed here a little bit, because last November, as Chairman of the City Council of Tartu, I raised the issue that the issue of a possible wood refinery must be placed on the agenda of an extraordinary meeting of the City Council. When we did, we also had very clear goals for us to do so. The whole of Tartu City Council and the City Government subsequently agree that the task of the local government is to protect its people and the natural environment and the sustainable development of the whole region. Actually, we took it a little bit wider. It wasn't our goal to have a meeting and see who shouted louder. You know, don't take us too proud now, but Tartu is the second city of Estonia, and the precedents he has created should set an example for others. Our aim was to once go through all the stages of the debate and show how the problems of cooperation between the central government and local government of the country will be solved. I will also say that we took it with great positive expectations, but we also had fears. Where do fears come from? Fears come from historical experience. After all, in recent decades, it has not improved, but it is constantly and again fear that some Rail Baltic or some Tartu prison, or some of the more ancient phosphorite things, will be agreed somewhere. People have concerns about why these things don't come to the table as soon as possible. That's why we had this meeting. There's another thing. The Tartu Council has never thought that we would solve all the problems. Today, 50 years ago, global problems were discussed. You know, in 1968 an interesting principle was put in place: global problems are global, but they cannot be solved by one decision; they need to be resolved in a consistent way, each problem individually and where this problem has arisen and where it can be solved, in the workplace of each of us. Looking at Tartu City Council, we had no hope that we would solve the problem of Estonian forests. But in a situation where we can see that there are three schools of forest scientists who all think they are taking the right step and the other two are wrong, we are pleased that this discussion has succeeded. And that's what's to be created. By the way, it would go to 50 years is a little less than 100 years ago. Jaan Poska, one of the biggest fathers of Estonian independence, said the same thing: do not try to solve one problem with one command, but must act systematically and create decision-making mechanisms. The country of Estonia must be built. But not like when you come up with a theme, everything gets smashed up like a mush and you get messed up and you say what anybody wants or doesn't want. The topic will continue to be discussed at the Tartu Council. On 19 April, we will also discuss what is happening. There are different opinions. We unanimously found that we too tried to speak loudly to be heard. It's never been heard before. This does not specifically apply to this government or to any particular project, but has been the case. An in-depth analysis is necessary. Internationally, this is an important issue. I was present when the Baltic Sea Council discussed the environmental problems, the problems of the Emajõgi and Lake Peipsi last summer. All these things need to be examined further. But I continue to hope that in this cellulose dispute there will be exactly the precedent that the government is doing its job and is doing well, and the local government will protect its people well. I hope that it will not happen like it once did in a Polish country where every shlahtich was given a veto to veto. And you know what happened when the central government didn't do the central government's job, but said let the locals decide everything? It happened that there was no one country after that for centuries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U68	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U69	Mr. Chairman! Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answers. Although you could say there were a lot of technical numbers, this message was missing. What do I sense in debates that take place in this Chamber and in the media, but also in talking to people? There has been the same rake, which I myself have reminded the Prime Minister of the remote on several occasions. Everything begins with communication, open communication and explanations. I think it would also create confidence in politicians. I mean, this whole combo thing that's going on is destroying the reputation of all of us. I do not think it makes sense if we want to improve our political culture and increase our credibility. I will tell the Prime Minister so much information that on 30 April you will come back here and try to find answers to the questions initiated by Andres Herkel in order to clarify this secrecy and coordination between the three coalition parties, I mean the very same meeting that Andres Herkel mentioned here last February. After all, a lot of things still remain unclear, starting with this RMK agreement, which is rare. From the same 'Spectator' program, it also turned out that companies gave volume restrictions, which have been extraordinary, say, in planning the current activities of RMK. So far up to five years have been spoken, but 15 years was demanded, and it was automatically given. What you have mentioned several times today is that there is a great international interest. What or who is this great international interest? I've been looking at the registration of Est-For Invest, which clearly shows that there is a Latvian interest. They're partners in this company, too. So far, it has been said that the business model is being built on Belarus and Latvia's timber. As we know with Belarus, we have no borders, which automatically brings the interests of Russian businessmen into play. Perhaps another question remains: why is there a state guarantee in this case, both through RMK and through special planning procedures? Years ago, I remember, they wanted to set up a large-scale fish farming company in Audrus, and then they sent it on top of the kapo. Why, for example, was there no analogous behaviour in this case and the background of operators was not investigated before? There are so many questions. In your reply, you used the adjectives of this company, explaining why the government is acting in this way. But I think that in a country the size of Estonia, every entrepreneur should have a value in himself and we must create measures to ensure that entrepreneurs have a safe and good management environment. If we create advantages for one or the other, then others will have a legitimate question as to why they will not be treated equally. Has this question been answered or not? My suggestion is that you withdraw from central decision-making, which seems to be a veto against the municipality and the local people. Please give them the assurance that you are on their side. Please do not use this attitude as if you were surrounded by a barrier, but rather use this forum to explain. Get these documents out of the drawer so the media doesn't have to spy. That's a bad taste. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U70	The members of the Riigikogu do not wish to negotiate any more, but the Prime Minister wishes to exercise his right to speak. Please, George Ratas!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U71	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I would like to start by thanking the Free Party Group once again for its questioning and for all those who signed it. I think this is an important subject. As Artur Talvik said here, any closer or more effective negotiation with the community is important. I thank all those who took the floor. I just wanted to say that I thought it was quite surprising what the EKRE said. As far as I can tell, your wish is to provide clarity. I welcome it. You said you weren't against industry. I think it is important that we do not kill the entrepreneur immediately before the discussion begins. We even understand that the investment is important. It can't come from the environment, it can't. I am not an Est-For defense attorney or spokesperson for them, but I think that Estonian society is stronger and healthier than we can hold such debates. In my opinion, this inquiry initiated by the Free Party also contributed to this in at least one step towards positivity. Martin Helme said you wouldn't mind, but you're against this factory coming right over there. If you mean Viljandi and Tartulands, I understand you, but if you mean the exact location, I have to say that I don't know where this factory is going. Sincerely, I don't know, because the location I know hasn't been established. In the county sense, yes, but specifically that it has not been decided there. After all, the question is that when we make these decisions, we must also consider whether or not the investor has an interest. If the investor is not interested, this programme or project cannot go forward. I was told you didn't get any answers from me today. I put my hand on my heart and I say I don't do the research, I swear I won't. These studies must still be carried out by those who are designed and set up for this purpose. True, as I said, if I have the opportunity to make these decisions, to be one of those who make this decision, then I think it is important to involve the local community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U72	I will close this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U73	Now an inquiry by Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Maris Lauri, Yoko Alender, Liina Kersna, Eerik-Niles Kross, Urmas Kruuse, Kalle Laane, Terje Trei, Jüri Jaanson, Ants Laaneots, Valdo Randpere, Anne Sulling, Kristen Michal, Meelis Mälberg and Laine Randjärv. Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U74	Honourable speaker! Good Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Warning examples of how the current government's small statements, as if spoken from the top of a mocha, erode important principles that have so far stood above political differences have been so much in the last year that ignoring them would not be conceivable. One part of these statements, as well as actions, concerns the positions and opinions of the leading politicians of the Prime Minister's Party, which are in direct conflict with our current foreign policy line. This includes, for example, funding the Kremlin propaganda channel with our own taxpayers' money, but also the statements by the vice-chairman of the Prime Minister's party, who has welcomed the debate on sanctions against Russia. However, the second part became particularly acutely visible, especially when the current government started to justify supporting Estonian churches by compensating for occupation losses, thus calling into question the principle that Estonia was never legally part of the Soviet Union and the Republic of Estonia is not responsible for the crimes, obligations or debts of the occupying party or its successor in law. This decision was followed by the position expressed by a representative of the Prime Minister's Party in this very Chamber, right here on the vertex, that the Estonian state, which was restored in 1991, is a new state, that we currently have another Republic of Estonia in Estonia. The questioning of legal continuity in this way was why we asked the Prime Minister eight questions, all of which concern a very serious and important issue. We are waiting for answers to these questions today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U75	The inquiry must be answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U76	Honorable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Honourable heirs, thank you, of course, for your questioning. If you answer with one sentence, I'd say come, heaven, help us, and give us wisdom. Your questions. 'Why has your government, by its decision, called into question the principle of legal continuity of the Republic of Estonia? " The Government of the Republic of Estonia has not questioned the principle of legal continuity as a basis for restoring Estonia's independence by its decisions. The second question: 'Has your government analysed the damage caused by the domestic questioning of legal consistency and the partial abandonment of it to Estonia in foreign policy? ' There is no need for this analysis, because the Government of the Republic has never questioned the legal continuity of Estonia. I will answer the third and fourth questions together. The third question: 'Which rule of law did your government decide in 2017. On 28 December, justify support for churches by compensating for occupation damage? ' Question 4: 'What legal provisions did your Government's Minister of Justice base on when he renamed it a week later to compensate for Estonian pre-war bonds, and is such compensation now waiting for everyone who holds out old and unserviceable debt securities, including those already redeemed and those who have disappeared from Eesti Pank during the occupation? ' My answer to these two questions. I have repeatedly confirmed that the decision of 28 December to allocate money from the government's property reform reserve fund was linked to the desire to end the property disputes between the state and the churches (Estonian Evangelical Lutheran Church and Estonian Apostolic Orthodox Church). The Estonian state has been having complicated disputes with the churches for years, which have primarily affected the return of the building and land of the Church of Niguliste to the Estonian Evangelical Lutheran Church and the compensation of the buildings and land of the Monastery of Petseri to the Estonian Apostolic-Justice Church. The Government of the Republic has, in its previous statements, expressed the view that long-term property disputes with churches must be brought to an end and can be done by means of agreements, paying a one-off grant to compensate for the damage suffered by them. In doing so, the churches have promised to waive all material requests and claims. In addition to the disputes concerning the Church of Niguliste and the monastery of Petseri, it was clear and agreed on the bonds that the Estonian Apostolic-Righteous Church and the Estonian Evangelical Lutheran Church had purchased from the Republic of Estonia after the war of freedom. These bonds were not redeemed because the occupation and world war followed. There was now an opportunity to resolve this issue in a sound manner within the framework of the agreement, guided by the principle of the country's legal continuity and the moral obligation of the country. I would remind you that this possibility was already foreseen in 2013. The then Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi made an overview to the Cabinet that, although the claims for compensation arising from the bonds were formally outdated and the actions of the churches against the Republic of Estonia would not produce results, 'political agreements could still be discussed to find ways to compensate for the damage suffered by the wars and occupations on the basis of the principle of solidarity to the churches', allow me to repeat this part of the sentence, 'to compensate for the damage suffered by the war and occupations to the churches on the basis of the principle of solidarity, as in the case of the misaligned property reform'. Question 5: "On what legal basis did you agree to the request to'reimburse the damage caused by the property reform' to those who have not been deprived of the property that was the subject of the property reform? Why did they equate with those who were repressed during the Soviet era and consider the creation of a common register of repressed and 'tenants'? 'The Government Order No 61 of 2 March 2017 established a government commission aimed at analysing and proposing the effects and outstanding issues of ownership reform. The task of the Commission was to provide the Government of the Republic with an analysis of the results and impacts of the ownership reform and to propose solutions to the problems. The Government Committee is composed of the Minister of State Administration (Chairman of the Commission), the Minister of Justice (Chairman of the Commission), the Minister of Culture and the Estonian Mermento Association, the Central Union of Estonian Owners, the Estonian Academy of Sciences, the Society of Estonian Tenants, the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the Government Associations, the Ministry of Finance, the State Chancellery (Office of the Prime Minister), the Rural Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu, the Financial Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu, the Estonian Mälu Institute and the Ministry of Internal Affairs. The activities of the Government Commission were based, inter alia, on the above-mentioned analysis by the Ministry of Finance of 2013 entitled "Overview of the ownership reform 2010-2012'. This government committee acts on the basis of the principle of legal continuity and the responsibility of the aggressor state for the damage caused by the occupation. In response to questions raised in the inquiry, I say that the Government of the Republic has not taken decisions on the equalization of any group of persons. The Government of the Republic has decided to supplement the Act on the Use of Money from Privatization. This bill has been approved by the Government's decision of 5 April 2018 and will be followed by its procedure here, before you, in the honourable Riigikogu. No subsidies are paid to churches in the Riigikogu prior to the adoption of the draft prepared and amended law by the Ministry of Finance. Once again, such support is certainly not a compensation for the damage caused by the occupying power. The damage caused by foreign authorities to churches operating in Estonia by disparaging their social reputation, preventing the conduct of various religious services, preventing the care of sacred places, etc. cannot be compensated or eliminated by the Estonian state. Question 6: 'Because of the Constitution of Estonia, the Government of the Republic implements the internal and external policies of the state. You are the leader of this government. What is the link between the Estonian Prime Minister's party and the United Russia and the political direction taken by the Government Union under your leadership, which provides an opportunity to consider the Republic of Estonia as a legal successor to the ESSR? ' The link you mentioned does not exist. Question 7: 'The vice-president of the Estonian Prime Minister's Party, Mikhail Kõlvart, met with Vladimir Putin's Special Representative in Tallinn several weeks before the government announced unexpectedly that Estonia was about to make up for the occupation losses of the Soviet Union, thus essentially taking up the role of the successor of the Soviet Union. Is the actual content of the meeting of Mikhail Kõlvart, representative of the party leading the Estonian government, with the Special Representative of Putin known to the members of the government office implementing Estonian internal and foreign policy according to the Constitution? When was this introduced to the cabinet? ' To be honest, it seems to me that the construction you have proposed, such as the meeting of the former assistant mayor responsible for Tallinn's education and culture and today's Chairman of the Council with the Russian President's international cultural relations with the Special Representative, would be linked to compensation for occupation damage, incomprehensible and absurd. I think that strengthening the cultural ties of Tallinn, Moscow and St Petersburg and discussing how to celebrate the 300th anniversary of the 100th and Kadriorg Parks of the Republic of Estonia cannot in any way mean that the Republic of Estonia has essentially taken on the role of the legal successor of the Soviet Union. Question 8: 'Politics, part of which is the desire to reduce Soviet crimes and the damage caused to Estonia, has been called Russification. The result of this policy is deliberately or unintentionally pushing Estonia into the sphere of influence of the Kremlin. Why have you chosen the path of russification in your government's politics? ' I would like to draw attention here to the important logic errors of the heirs. In the last question, you are complaining to the government that the damage caused to Estonia has been tossed, but in the previous case the charge was, on the contrary, to compensate the churches for the loss of occupation on the basis of the principle of solidarity. I assure you that the government of the Social Democratic Party, the Fatherland and Res Publica Union and the Estonian Central Party will continue to act in the only possible way: 'In the unwavering faith and unwavering will to consolidate and develop the state created by the unfailing justice of the state self-determination of the Estonian people and proclaimed on 24 February 1918 which is founded on freedom, justice and the right to defend inner and external peace and to be placed on present and future generations in their social success and overall benefit, which must ensure the preservation of the Estonian nation, language and culture through the ages. " It was a quote from the Preamble of the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U77	Questions for the Prime Minister. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U78	Thank you. Very, very beautiful of you to quote it at the end, I commend you very much. But I also have a question. I myself once belonged to this research group, who tried to learn in the archives how much the Estonian state owes to the churches due to the land reform of the past and how much money has been paid out, just as the Estonian state promised. We figured it out, as you know very well about the Ministry of Finance. We found out exactly how much we still owe and how much we should pay. It is perfectly natural that the state supports the church, I have nothing against it. But why didn't they talk about it the way it is? Why was it linked to compensation for occupation damage, which has absolutely nothing to do with this issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U79	Thank you. First of all, thank you for your good words in the direction of the churches. If you ask what the reason for this is, it's actually very simple. After all, the essence is that I sincerely think it is the only way to avoid litigation between the church and the state. Secondly, the essence is that our beautiful, admirable and lovely old town can solve a property issue. It's been like a bad landmark for a property dispute. I mean the Church of Niguliste. Who does it belong to, the church or the state? This argument has already been held for 27 years. These were, in my opinion, the triggering issues that I believe need to be resolved. I am pleased that today's government has the strength, the will and the desire to resolve this issue. As I also said, these agreements will not be signed here in the Riigikogu before the entry into force of this amendment, so the Minister of Public Administration has told me. But I really hope this thing gets so far that 2018 could become the year when we get this kind of church and state stuff out of the way, including the Niguliste issue. These aren't good things.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U80	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U81	Thank you, good Chairman. Good Prime Minister! You're saying there's an argument that's been resolved. People in the hall know that this dispute has not actually been resolved until the Riigikogu has made its decision. That's one. Secondly, if you look at this question, you will see that the heirs are still primarily disturbed by flirting with the idea that Estonia itself occupied itself. Apart from the Chancellor of Justice's intervention and public pressure, you have reached the point of contact with the Riigikogu. Would you like to use this platform here to admit that the government didn't do its job and, in fact, is patching holes now?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U82	It seems to me, a good questioner, that your logic is that you don't do it yourself and the others don't let us find these solutions. It seems to me at all that with this question, the Reform Party is calling into question the restoration of Estonia's independence on the basis of legal continuity. In my opinion, you are currently undermining our society and undermining Estonia's foundations. You referred to the Chancellor of Justice. I have said so at a government press conference and I will say so today. First of all, what do I think the Chancellor of Justice said? He drew attention to a possible contradiction. Greater legal clarity and even greater legal certainty are in any case the right direction. At the same time, I am absolutely convinced that the government has made legitimate decisions to date. I rely on the opinion of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Justice and also the lawyers of the State Chancellery. But in that you are really right that this issue will only be settled once a) the Riigikogu gives this mandate and b) these agreements have been concluded.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U83	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U84	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! In principle, there have already been several references to this contradiction as to how it is possible that the occupied person compensates himself for the occupation damage. There is a very clear logic error here. Don't you think you're kind of opening Pandora's box? Estonia is when we talk about sacral buildings, full of sacral buildings, most of which have been decomposed and abandoned because the Soviet authorities took them away from the congregations and the congregations ran away. Now there are no more congregations, and often there are no more buildings, or they are in a pathetic situation. Don't you think that now maybe there will be new congregations that will also turn to the government and say that so, some occupation damage you compensated, but please compensate us as well?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U85	Thank you. First of all, it seems to me that you, Mr Helme, too, support concrete and clear solutions. Maybe it seems wrong to me, but I think that's quite often how you express yourself. I don't know, I'm sick and embarrassed, and I don't feel that it's right when the Niguliste issue is unsolved. It's unsolved. We go to the old town every day, and we know that this issue is unresolved. Some say that Niguliste should belong to the church, others say that it should belong to the state. We are now getting to what you referred to in your question, that the congregation as such may no longer exist at all. You were talking about sacral structures. I immediately remembered the lovely Saaremaa and Pöide birdbrick. It is true that there are quite a number of temples that require great investment, and where it is never reached so far as to be financed by the congregation. I believe that, with the support of the public sector, whether it is a state or a local government, we have done various things to the temples. If I recall my former profession in the Tallinn city system, I remember that there are churches that the city has supported directly with investments, there are churches that the city has guaranteed to borrow, and he has helped the churches to take out loans. For example, the St. John's Church is a beautiful, beautiful church. I strongly support the fact that in the future, the state will continue to make a strong contribution to the organization of the temples. We also have examples, of course, where the country has not laid hands and maybe the congregation or the private sector have done so. So I think it's the right direction. You asked if there would be any new people to turn to the government in this light. At the moment, I do not know any more about serious negotiations, or at least I have not conducted them.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U86	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U87	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! It is very good for me to go on with the question of my colleague, Mart Helme. The church of Tartu Mary has suffered equally under occupation, this church is no longer present. Does this mean that the Church of Tartu could also demand compensation for occupation damage? From this point on, do you think that reaching this bill does not involve a great deal of questioning? It was initially planned to make this decision as a government decree, but after the Chancellor of Justice intervened, the situation changed. What was the reason for this wish to make it a government regulation at first, even though it is an issue that should definitely reach the Riigikogu Hall?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U88	Thank you. How did this result, or on what basis did we rely? I will tell you once again that there was the opinion of the lawyers of the three authorities: the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Justice and the State Chancellery. Everyone thought this was legitimate. The fact that in a democratic society the Chancellor of Justice will at some point state his principles and give explanations is totally welcome. We have also had disputes in the Supreme Court. I'm not saying it's catastrophic, either. It's good for legal clarity sometimes, then we have a case, then we have a solution. As I said, the Chancellor of Justice drew attention to a possible contradiction. Indeed, the decision to strengthen legal clarity, legal certainty, was that, alright, the government proposes and initiates a legislative amendment with the draft. As we know, this has now been done; the Government of the Republic has proposed to the Riigikogu an amendment to the law. It will take more time, but then there will be greater legal clarity or legal certainty. Now, the Church of Mary of Tartu. Yeah, I've been there myself. Right now we're talking about confessions, we're not talking about one church or another. True, Niguliste has been the trigger for this. I have spoken to representatives of the City of Tartu, both the Chairman of the Council and the Mayor. The question is whether the state could support this repetition. As we know, sports in that church is now finished. For many, this has been a famous basketball game, as strange as it may seem. I think it ended very symbolically, very sweetly and very nicely. But here's a question, I think, of cooperation between the state and Tartu. Do you want me to rule that out? No, I don't rule it out. As I said, the state could play its part over Estonia in repeating, renovating the temples, including the church of Tartu. If your question goes on, I will look you in the eye at whether it is included in the 2019 budget, then I will say no, it is not in there at the moment. We are currently doing a national budget strategy and this level of detail will be reached in the autumn. I am not issuing any draft here, but this request has been forwarded to me by Tartu some time ago.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U89	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U90	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good Prime Minister! Somehow very nervous are the answers we can get here right now, but there is nothing to be done, and I must continue with the questions. The question bearing the order number 7 in the inquiry was not answered in substance, either by accident or the answer is uncomfortable. For what reason, you probably know that. But that is why I am forced to repeat this question. At the end of October last year, Mikhail Kõlvart, vice-president of the Estonian Prime Minister's Party, met with Vladimir Putin's Special Representative in Tallinn. The question we asked was whether the real content of this meeting is known to those people who, according to the Estonian Constitution, implement our internal and external policies. Do the cabinet members know the content of this meeting or not? If so, when was it introduced to the members of the Cabinet?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U91	Good Keit! I think I can address you both because, after all, in political life, we have been working together at some point, in opposition, in coalition, both at national and local level. I think you know exactly where I stand on the issues you want to stick with full force and power. No, there's no nervousness. In my opinion, the questioners are so uncertain when they ask these questions. You don't know how to sit or step, but I have to answer those questions. The chairman of your party today has said that campaigns should end from the point of view of national confrontation. I very sincerely believe that your new chairman thinks so too, and you will finish this. I don't think you're going through this score for the fourth time. I mean your party. Well, that's the question you're putting on the table today. I answered question seven. If you're asking me if this government office is discussing meetings with representatives of the local government, I'm gonna say I'm not discussing.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U92	Martin Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U93	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Prime Minister! There was once a talk that there was an endless debate about the Church of Niguliste and that it needed to be brought to an end. In fact, this dispute was closed by a decision of the Supreme Court, which said that the Church of Niguliste is the object of lawful return. On this issue, the government could have found a different solution, not to do so in a way that would call into question legal continuity or raise serious questions about it, but you chose a yokk solution. All right, you chose the yoke solution. But I'm going to ask you what Henn Põllamaas asked for. The Republic of Estonia owed a considerable amount to the Estonian Evangelical Lutheran Church before the Second World War, before the occupation. There was a long-term repayment process, a considerable amount was not paid. Is there ever going to compensate for this amount in the future, or what will happen to it?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U94	Thank you. I would like to say once again that in the case of Niguliste, we have an agreement on theoretical ground. Why can't I say it's on paper? As you know, the government has decided to turn to the Riigikogu with a legislative amendment. I have answered that question twice and now I will answer it for the third time. No signature will be given until the Riigikogu has approved this decision. In my opinion, litigation between the state and the church must be avoided and reasonable solutions must be found. This surface can only be this. I think that balance has been struck today, there is an opportunity. I will answer once again the previous question that Keit Pentus-Rosimannus asked. As far as I know, this person met the people of the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It was cultural discussions, as I said in my reply to you earlier.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U95	Thank you, Prime Minister. I'm opening negotiations. If Keit Pentus-Rosimannus is the representative of the Reform Party, please! According to the rules, the first right to speak is for those who submitted an inquiry.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U96	Ladies and gentlemen, Good Prime Minister! One thing to remember about this government in this hall and history is a double game. It is unfortunately symptomatic for this government to speak consistently in different channels at different moments of time. In Brussels, our Prime Minister is talking about how the Kremlin propaganda must be combated. In Tallinn, the same person approves of how our taxpayer's money finances the Kremlin propaganda channel. The Estonian media are talking about the importance of the government's persistence of sanctions against Russia, while the representatives of the Prime Minister's Party continue to applaud it and talk about the need to open a debate on sanctions against Russia. In the Estonian media, the Prime Minister talks about how Estonia condemns the poisoning of Skripali; some moments later, the leading politician of the same Prime Minister's party, Skripali, will defend Russia in the matter of poisoning. The Government, under the leadership of the Prime Minister, makes a decision which, in substance and on the basis of the grounds, is to compensate for the damage to the occupation, by surprisingly using this argument to support the churches, is essentially caught by the Chancellor of Justice by this argument, is forced to change the decision as a result of the Chancellor of Justice's taking up the defence of the Constitution and, some time later, takes the view that none of this existed at all. What is it, Prime Minister? It's a double game. As heirs, having heard these answers here today, we probably have nothing else to do but turn to the government partners who, although still true, will soon no longer represent either of them there, not the chairman of the party in the government, and ask them to dare to express their views when they see that things are getting jealous and the double game continues. Unfortunately, the government partners have been silent when they should have said very clearly at the table of the cabinet that such a double game would not be tolerated or allowed through Estonia. Since they have been silent on important places for whatever internal policy reasons, of course we also have a request to the Chancellor of Justice who, in this very matter of compensating for the damage to the occupation, acted as one Chancellor of Justice had to, so that, in similar situations, the Chancellor of Justice would continue to play the role that the members of the government should actually play at the table of the cabinet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U97	Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U98	President-in-Office of the Council. Mr. Prime Minister! Everyone knows the old folk truth that the way to hell is paved with good intentions. In this case too, your answers indicate that you have wanted to do good. But let us remember that the bear also wanted to do good to his master, saw a mosquito in front of his master, began to slay it with a large boulder, and killed the host along with the mosquito. There were still a lot of unanswered questions, as was the case with the previous inquiry. You have missed this and the second and third and fourth points of the question. The point of the question is as follows. You want to help the church, you want to give the church money. No one has anything against this to keep the sacral buildings in order, to help the congregations. If the country is rich enough for that, then what do we have against it? The question is different, the question is that the state of Estonia, today's Republic of Estonia, has been restored to the principle of legal continuity, and in this case you have crossed this principle of legal continuity. If you wanted to help the church, there would have been a lot of ways. I'm describing the simplest thing. The government will decide to give money to the Church of Niguliste. The government decides to give money to the apostolic Orthodox Church. The Government will also take a decision on legal affiliation. These decisions are all within the authority of the government, they are easy to make. I do not think there would be any particular contradiction in the government on these issues. You have chosen the worst way. You're gonna tell the kidnapper that he's gonna have to make up for what he's been robbed of. Look, this isn't a wholesome behavior, but legally, it's a completely insane behavior. This is what the opposition members of the Riigikogu have been trying to make clear to you within half an hour. You refuse to accept this aspect at all. If you want to deal with assets, there's another way. Russia has a large number of assets exported from Estonia, Voroneži has the assets of the University of Tartu, the President's official money, the official chain, etc. You have also, as you have completely forgotten, that your government minister, the Minister of Justice, has repeatedly emphasised from this very point of view that the recovery of occupation damage from Russia has not been taken off the agenda, it is on the agenda, it is on the agenda of this government. We will then collect these losses and demand this money, among other things, for the churches. Keit Pentus-Rosimannus says you're two-faced. To be honest, you have to agree with him. You're two-faced. You're talking about consistency, but at the same time you're violating that consistency. You're talking about not playing the map of the nation in elections or politics at all, but basically you're playing it yourself. After today's inquiry, the question remains how sincere you are when you say that Estonia has been restored on the basis of legal continuity. We members of the Riigikogu have doubts. We have doubts, and you have unfortunately not been able to disprove them by answering this question. I have another complaint for you. You have too often started to use a patronizing tone in answers to questions and briefings, even when talking to my humble person. Please don't do this! Please don't! There are very experienced people in this Chamber who have lived in many different occupations and have achieved one and the other. You have no moral or other superiority so that you can use the patronizing tone of communication with us. Please don't do this! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U99	Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U100	Mr President! Prime Minister! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I would divide this issue here into two parts: firstly, this extremely unsuccessful attempt to distribute money in government decision-making, bypassing the law on the use of funds from privatisation, bypassing the Riigikogu, and secondly, this more general problem of legal continuity. But starting from the fact that the Chancellor of Justice has intervened, it must be said that the government has at least initially listened to this intervention and promises to amend the law to make the decision correct. That's good. But it was really startling to hear the Prime Minister say that neither the lawyers of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Justice or the State Chancellery understood that this way bypassing the Riigikogu, and under the name of compensation for occupation damage, the government could not allocate this money, and the Chancellor of Justice had to tell you that. This is really incomprehensible in many respects, and one of these plans is also the role of the Riigikogu, which you, Prime Minister, have been leading and defending for years as a member of the Riigikogu's board. That's one side of it. The second thing that came out of this discussion is the strange question of who's going to undermine who now. The heirs say that the Prime Minister and the Government are undermining the legal continuity of Estonia by their actions, and the Prime Minister responds from this point of view that you, with your own questioning, are undermining the legal continuity of Estonia. I don't think that's quite appropriate. It tends to be patronizing. Yes, I also see here the sign that this topic may become such an election day and an Estonian-Russian topic, but I would say, Mr Ratas, that you actually have the key. You can set the limit so we don't go into this trap. The mere confirmation that legal consistency is unchanged and respected is limited. These bad signs still begin with the way your party members behave, about the relationship with PBK and how the Tallinn City Government solves certain problems. All of this really raises the background to this beautiful statement that we are based on legal continuity. Whether it is the Syrian question, on which Yana Toom has expressed a completely different view, or whether it is also the infamous treaty with the United Russia, it is possible to give more and more of these examples. Today, in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, I gained this experience when we tried to raise the question that the channelling of funds to Tallinn through PBK should be stopped, then the coalition partners did not really call you to order, and everything will continue. There's a problem here. They are not always directly related to legal continuity. But I really ask the Prime Minister not to raise such an Estonian-Russian confrontation before the elections. In fact, you made one bad choice as early as 2016, when you preferred the Kremlin wing of the Centre Party to include the Free Party in government. That's too bad! To the authors of the inquiry, I have only one comment. We understand perfectly what legal consistency is. What's russification, we don't really understand that. I understand that this is some kind of parallel term for Finnishing, but Finnishing still meant a certain period of silence. We speak freely here, the Estonian press speaks freely. So in the title of the inquiry, the clear term 'russianity' could have been used calmly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U101	George Adams.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U102	Mr President! In my opinion, who specializes in the provision of a variety of historical statements rather than a series of statements, this issue is extremely interesting. That's how I take this opportunity. First of all, the question of whether we can talk about the second or third republic. This must come from France. I do not know of any other people in Europe who would have taken up the numbering of different periods of history in order to gain a better understanding of their own history. There's a fifth republic in France right now. This means that the Fifth Free State Constitution is in force. It was established in 1958 during the time of President de Gaulle, quite rightly on his initiative. The first republic began in 1792. In the meantime, there are at least two more kingdoms and two empires. During the debate on how to restore Estonia's independence, it was indeed a very important question as to whether it was based on the principle of continuity or the principle of independence of the Soviet Republic. At the time, I don't know whose initiative was the use of a variety of expressions such as the'second republic' and 'third republic'. I would like to state now that in 2018 these expressions will no longer have any meaning whatsoever and we could forget them. For example, I myself have no problem; I often tell the audience that there is a second period of independence in Estonia. In my opinion, this is quite understandable to everyone. This is certainly not an attempt to call into question the principle of continuity, for which I myself fought for many years and which remained on top and won in any way. The second issue is this issue of property and compensation. It is important to remember here what happened in 1991 and 1992. One of the most important turning points that determined Estonia's future development was in the early months of 1991. In the Supreme Council, the law on the basis of the ownership reform was adopted, as a star abbreviation for ORAS, and it is also known who were the three most important people in making it. One was Mr Jüri Raidla, Minister of Justice of the then Edgar Savisaar government, and then there were representatives of two other parties on the Supreme Council of Liia Hänni and Kaido Kama. The main idea of this law was that the Estonian state will give back all the preserved property to the legitimate owners and if there are fundamental reasons why it cannot be returned, for example the property is necessary in another function of general government, it will be compensated (the word'reimbursement' was not yet used at the time). For all other types of assets, it was decided at the time that no compensation would take place. If, for some reason, the Estonian state decides to compensate for something, it is a matter of its own. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U103	Please! Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U104	For example, the land lost in Petseri County, beyond the border (now called the border, at that time it was called the control line), was compensated by giving the wanters a replacement country on this side of the border, in Estonia. There was such compensation, but there was no compensation. Younger-generation lawyers probably don't understand what's what. The political agreement was that all the assets that were indemnified at the beginning were formally held by the State under certain conditions. It was not the real property of the state, the state was only like a caretaker, but it was legally called state property. This State ownership was very limited, for example, the State could not sell these items. As the surrender took place, and when it was decided on something that the legitimate owners did not want anything back or that there was a reason not to give it back, these assets moved from the so-called notional state ownership to the real state ownership. Here's the legal limit. As far as compensation is concerned, from the outset there have been political struggles between a wide range of groups to ensure that other types of property are also subject to repayment or reimbursement. Most seriously, various groups involved in the Centre Party's policy have fought for it. It can be seen that the current government of the Centre Party generally tends to do things that were not customary in 1992 and later. I agree with Mrs Pentus-Rosimine's description of this policy. It seems to me, too, that it is very difficult for the Centre Party to talk about the political party's common policy on these issues. There are two or three groups of opposing positions in this party, plus a number of individual members with some kind of agenda. For example, I would not necessarily dare to call all the things that one or another member of the Centre Party Group says official politics of the Centre Party. Now to the churches at last. In the composition of Riigikogu IX, I led the procedure of the current Act on Churches and Congregations. It was 2000 or 2001. One of the important problems is that we have various cultural values that we consider to be popular cultural goods, in the hands and in the use of churches, especially the Lutheran Church, but also, to a lesser extent, in the use of others. The main problem is that these congregations will not be able to sustain them in the future. I call for an agreement to be concluded between the state and the churches, that the state supports with money, and that if something is left in the hands of the churches, the churches serve the entire nation as a museum keeper. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U105	There's no more words. Prime Minister Jüri Ratas will have the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U106	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! It is quite strange that we can reach the Estonian-Russian axis with one brush pull from churches and shrines. But there is nothing new about it, because the Estonian proverb also says that a person sees what he sees in his eyes, God sees what he sees in his heart. Good Keit! Humanly speaking, I'm really sad about what you're doing here and saying. But it seems to me that the Reform Party has chosen such a path that it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter, it's an Estonian state, it doesn't matter, it's our people and balance in this country, everything that produces headlines and produces hysteria, it also produces voices. Mart Helme, now for what you said in your speech. On the contrary, I have never taken a superior or arrogance toward you. I have listened to you very carefully. But I'm telling you, you're very strongly drawn to the Reform Party game with the EKRE. It was best seen in the last 30 minutes, looking at what happened in this hall. This is the 2019 election campaign that the Reform Party is doing in this hall. This, of course, involves a division of society, accompanied by the sowing of hysteria. In my opinion, the Reform Party has one desire for this activity: to undermine Estonia's statehood, to undermine the foundations of the Estonian state. I am sincerely happy that the latest studies commissioned by the Ministry of Defence show that the negative opinions of people speaking in Estonian and Russian about NATO, the police and the European Union have decreased. Yes, in fact, with every decision the Estonian state makes, we increase the confidence that Estonian society is united. It's the same thing I said to the EKRE in briefing. I still think 1.3 million people are all our people. I still think we need to build these bridges. I understand very well our very difficult history, our very complicated history. I had the chance to go back to the days of the week and a little bit more to watch the movie "Secret Kid." All the people came out of the hall in total silence. I am actually very concerned about what the Reform Party has once again set its goal. I did not simply say that your chairman, Hanno Pevkur, has said that confrontation from the soil of the nations is not good for Estonia. I think the former Minister of the Interior who's been doing this job for years knows what he's talking about. I sincerely hope that your new chairman, Mrs. Kaja Kallas, will not 'feed' in the sense that everything must be put in front of a wagon that brings votes. Something is, I think, bigger, something is, I think, more sacred than the result of the 3 March 2019 Reform Party account. I'm willing to accept this challenge. I think it is certainly my role as a citizen of this society, and also in today's profession, to seek a balance and not to sow the hysteria you are doing, unfortunately, I must say, very often by lying too. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U107	Please! Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U108	Mr. Herkel, you've been in politics longer than I have. You said that it was the wrong decision that in 2016 the Free Party was not elected and the Kremlin wing was elected. It's a very heavy charge. This means, you say, that there are people in this Chamber who serve the Kremlin, not the Republic of Estonia and blue black and white. I think it's out of line. Yes, I understand that you are attacking my partymates here, but you are also attacking members of the Riigikogu. You say that one part of the Riigikogu performs the functions of another state. For God's sake, if that's the case, let our authorities, our control bodies, know it. I don't think so. I'm protecting these people. Because of who is elected to a coalition in politics or not, there is no need to talk about what you said about the Kremlin team. It's like a mark on your forehead, like a stamp. I think that having such a membership of 101 members of the Riigikogu is the best we can have. It has been chosen by our residents of Estonia. So what do we have to do? Do we have to tell everyone with a Russian name that you're not fit for this? Only there are Russian names everywhere in Hiiumaa, Saaremaa, Läänemaa, Põlvamaa. That's a pretty heavy charge, Mr. Herkel, on your part. The word of a member of the Riigikogu is very important. My benevolent suggestion is at least to apologize for it. In any case, I do not agree with you, in any case, it is my role to protect these people. I think we are not rich enough in 100-year-old Estonia to play with the security of our country all the time, to play with the faith of the people of our country, I would say, even patriotism. We build this country every day, every hour of God, either here in the Riigikogu, in local governments, in NGOs or in government. Again we come to this in 2018, knowing that 2019 is an election, because this game is so easy to play. This game has brought success, this game has brought success in 2007, 2011 and 2015. I sincerely oppose it. This game can no longer be a success for one party. When you talk about various messages, I have voted at the European Council table three times on sanctions against Russia and have taken the view that they must be continued. In the Skripali case, I was also one of the active speakers in the Council who said that we need to take more specific steps. I have told the media in both Estonian and Russian, both in Brussels and in Tallinn, and I will do so to convey the same message. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U109	Normally, the answer to the addressee closes the debate, but I am the first to want to give everyone equal opportunities. Indeed, a couple of names sounded. Andres Herkel, line up, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U110	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! We can argue about what is Kremlin-minded or what is Kremlin-sided, but you have repeatedly had to gossip about the actions and statements of your party associates here, and you have not actually managed to do so, you have not managed to justify the sentiment of their Estonian state in different situations. I will give an example that Yana Toom has been to Syria in violation of the understandable principle of European states that such a dictator and the perpetrator of such acts will not be visited. He's done it. A colleague sitting here in the Riigikogu has also made a statement on Tallinn's urban media that a slave Estonia serves a new sovereign in the United States. What do you call it different than what I called it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U111	Ladies and gentlemen, I will conclude the debate on this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U112	Today's third item is the inquiry submitted by Riigikogu members Raivo Põldaru, Martin Helme, Henn Põlluaasa, Mart Helme, Uno Kaskpeit, Jaak Madison and Arno Silla on 22 February (No 419) for the provision of general care outside the home. I would like to ask for a speech chair, Mr Põldaru, who will report on the group's thoughts.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U113	Good President! Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On 22 February, we submitted an inquiry to the Minister for Social Protection, Kaia Ivala. The subject is, as was just the sound of the remote control, general care services outside the home, i.e. we are thinking about people living in nursing homes and the services they receive there. Why did we ask this question? This is because available control results in both 2016 and 2017 show that the situation in nursing homes has not improved much. From the media reports, we can still see ladies with blue arms and how people in nursing homes get flat wounds. This is also due to our questions about the provision of medical services and the availability of medicine and the treatment of people in nursing homes. We asked six questions. Let's hope the minister answers them and reads them out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U114	The minister who is to respond is Ms Kaia Iva, Minister for Social Protection. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U115	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! I am pleased that I have the opportunity to speak to you here today about important issues, to answer them and to discuss them. First of all, after your introduction, I really have to note that the most important direction in the social field is to organise a long-term care system and provide high-quality care services for all people in Estonia, including the elderly. The functioning of the services provided in the home, as well as the provision of other social services, including the provision of services to prevent and provide well-being, are of particular importance given the increase in the number of elderly people, the need for care and the increased vulnerability of older people in institutional care. Now you will answer your questions. The first question: "Does the Government of the Republic or the Minister responsible for the field intend to lay down requirements specifying the purpose of general care provided outside the home and its content, including the activities necessary to achieve the purpose of the service? ' The Social Welfare Act, which came into force in 2016, introduced minimum requirements for the purpose and content of social services organised by local authorities for the first time and left it possible to further specify the requirements of social services in the event of implementation of the Act and in the event of internships. I believe that the minimum necessary regulation is currently in place for the general care service and, given the current requirements, it is also possible to ensure decent care. Therefore, prior to the introduction of the specification requirements, it is necessary to analyse the existing bottlenecks in the provision of services in practice. We certainly do not want to over-regulate services. We want to see a common sense based on the law, which also guarantees the elderly a dignified old age in a nursing home. The Authority will play an important role in developing the requirements. Based on the weaknesses found during the monitoring exercise, we can look for ways of solving problems in practice. Since this year, supervision of the general care service is the responsibility of the Social Insurance Board. Due to the transition of the function to the SCA, surveillance is expected to converge. We want to promote intensively the provision of advisory supervision. In addition, cooperation will be developed between the following Supervisory Authorities: Health Board, Medicines Agency and Social Insurance Board. The aim is to develop common principles for information exchange and identification of potential problems. In addition, visit visits should also be aware of bottlenecks within the competence of other authorities, for example, when handling medicinal products, the SCA detects deficiencies and informs the Agency accordingly. The organisation of long-term care as a whole needs to be organised in the coming years in order to ensure uniform access and quality of care for people with care needs. At the end of 2018, the Ministry of Social Affairs will present proposals for changes to the long-term care system. In this context, we have also taken special attention, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, to the specific characteristics of the financial burden on the local government due to the ageing population and the needs of people with special needs. Therefore, the introduction of additional requirements must also be in line with changes to the long-term care system. The second question: "What has been done to ensure that all those in social welfare facilities are provided with medical care? " Indeed, one problem in nursing homes is the availability of family medical services. For example, from Ida-Virumaa there is a person in Pärnumaa who is not taken on the list by the Pärnumaa family doctors because it is full. Family doctors have a limit on the number of persons on the list which, if exceeded, the family doctor may refuse to add. The availability of primary health services therefore needs to be improved. An example of one of these developments is the development of primary health centres. During the next seven years 59 health centres will be built or renovated across Estonia, the first 15 of which should start work this year. Family doctors in the county or smaller region will join the health centres. By setting up new health centres, the choice of health care services provided to people by a family doctor extends, including home nursing services for a family doctor and a family nurse, so their availability in nursing homes should also improve. The responsibility of the care provider is to provide the person with the assistance he needs, and this requires, among other things, cooperation with other health care providers. One alternative is the possibility for general care homes to provide nursing care independently, such as home nursing services or inpatient nursing care services, since 2013. Since it is a health care service, it also requires the existence of appropriate licences and compliance with the requirements for the provision of the service. Although the licence does not guarantee automatic state funding, it allows the nursing home to apply for funding from the health insurance fund and to provide nursing care in both the nursing home and, for example, to the elderly in the region at their own home. In general, fixed nursing care is provided up to a maximum of 60 calendar days per year and is paid for by the person with his/her own participation, the rest of the cost of the service is covered by the Health Insurance Fund's budget. There are several reasons why nursing homes do not apply for a nursing licence. For example, there is no financial resource for the purchase of the necessary equipment or equipment, there is no possibility of hiring nursing staff who compete with hospitals, or there are other reasons. Of course, good cooperation between institutions and the medical field is very important. Question 3: "What has been done to eliminate the misuse of medicines in nursing homes? 'The Agency shall supervise the handling of medicinal products, including the procurement, storage and record keeping of medicinal products. Over the last four years, the Agency has inspected 28 institutions, five of which also provide nursing care. Several joint inspections have also been carried out in cooperation with the Chancellery of the Chancellor of Justice. In the last four years, the Agency has organised five information days for care providers. The controls have involved different bodies, which have been better and worse among them. It is difficult to highlight a common trend towards disadvantages or improvements. I stress the importance of cooperation between the supervisory authorities and of informing service providers. This year, as has been said, the Social Insurance Board took over the monitoring function of social services from rural governments. At the request of the Ministry of Social Affairs, the SKA, in cooperation with the Health Board and the Agency, started evaluating the situation in institutions providing general care. In the first quarter of this year, the SCA was supervised by nine institutions, and in cooperation with the three agencies it was carried out by five institutions. There were also violations. Today, the heads of nursing homes and the representatives of the owners, a total of 160 people, were invited to the Ministry of Social Affairs to explain the legal requirements once more and to discuss what conclusions can be drawn from supervision and what are, from the point of view of service providers, the problems that hinder compliance with legal requirements. Joint efforts are being made to find solutions to improve the situation. The purpose of organising the information day was also to get feedback from nursing homes themselves about possible problems and their solutions. Question 4: "How can it be ruled out that investments with structural funds will not become a source of benefit in the course of construction work, but ensure quality of service in the coming decades? 'The Ministry of Social Affairs has not allocated Structural Funds funds to improve the infrastructure for general care services, but has supported local authorities in developing and providing general care services from the European Social Fund. Expenditure on repairing the premises necessary for the provision of the service, furniture and equipment shall not exceed 20% of the total eligible costs of the project. The resources of the European Regional Fund are reorganizing the creation of service places for people of high quality and community involvement and who have a psychic special needs, not general care, during the current period. These measures are targeted at the targeted group of special care services organised by the State. In the past, investment support under other programmes has been granted to nursing homes and general care homes. For example, in 2007 and 2013 the Regional Minister's regulation allowed the "Development of local public services' measure to request funding for the development of infrastructure necessary for the provision of social services, including the construction and reconstruction of nursing homes. A total of 11 welfare institutions were supported according to EAS. In cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, in 2007 we developed a measure to improve the energy efficiency of general care homes, and the support was allocated from CO2. The measure supported the energy efficiency of care institutions owned by local authorities, thereby providing support to local authorities in providing general care services, since it is a mandatory service provided by local authorities under the Social Welfare Act. This is the fifth question: 'What are the longer-term obligations of the beneficiaries of today's Structural Funds to these social institutions? ' In the case of the reorganization support from the ERDF referred to above, one of the requirements is to ensure that the service is provided within the next 20 years after the actual completion of the building. In the case of the CO2 measure implemented in 2017 and the open call for applications by local authorities, there was no obligation to provide the service for the period. This is because local authorities received support, whose task is to ensure that the general care service is available to their residents. It is based on the assumption that the objective of the municipality is not to enrich itself at the expense of its inhabitants through the measure, but to receive state support for organising a better quality general care service. Question 6: How does the state guarantee the safety of every citizen in a nursing home and the availability of services? ' The state has a role to assist local authorities in providing general care services, as well as the obligation to create a legal framework for providing human dignity and accessible general care services. The Social Welfare Act, which came into force in 2016, laid down, as I emphasised earlier, minimum requirements for the purpose, content and service providers of social services organised by local authorities for the first time. In the past, there were no such requirements at all. Thereby, a maintenance plan was introduced. The maintenance plan shall specify the needs of the recipient of the service and the procedures to ensure its safety and maintenance during the use of the maintenance service. It also introduced requirements for the qualification of care workers, which were subject to a four-year transitional period. This means that in 2020, all maintenance personnel directly providing the general care service must have completed at least one of the following conditions: either they have completed the level of vocational training of the maintenance worker or they have completed further training of the maintenance worker or hold a professional certificate of competence of the maintenance worker. All care providers will also have to apply for a licence issued by the Social Insurance Board as of 2020. When applying for authorisation, the service provider shall provide, in addition to economic activity data, the number of persons to whom the service is provided and, on initial request, the number and compliance of maintenance personnel. The place where the service is provided shall comply with fire safety requirements and health protection requirements established under the Public Health Act. Since this year, the SHS has introduced a provision according to which the social service provider must be guided by generally accepted quality principles: personal focus, service-enhancing nature, performance orientation, etc. In order to understand and facilitate the implementation of quality principles, the Social Insurance Board developed a general quality guide for social services. During this year, the Agency will draw up service-based quality guidelines for all social services organised by local authorities. They must also be followed by private service providers. General care-based guidance will be completed in the first half of this year. In addition, the Social Insurance Board is actively involved in information, advice and counselling activities aimed at local governments and service providers. I guess we have to go to the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U116	Dear Minister, As a pragmatic person, I understand that you would certainly take the short time to answer a few questions. If my colleagues do not object, I would give the Minister another minute.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U117	Thank you. I'll try to finish the answer, then, to move on to the real questions. We will also improve the quality of supervision to ensure the quality of the service. The role of the Supervisory Authorities is to be a cooperation partner for service providers as well as for local authorities. There is a preference for any sanctioning for advisory supervision and, as mentioned above, for systematic communication. In the context of the new Public Health Act, due to enter into force in January next year, it is planned to introduce new service-based requirements governing the living environment and catering for welfare institutions. The amendments to the Public Health Act have passed the round of coordination and are quite soon, hopefully, before you. There is also a legislative amendment in the Ministry, in cooperation with the Social Committee of the Riigikogu, to ensure that the assistance service and the state's participation are also compensated for for all persons present in general welfare institutions. On the one hand, this represents an additional cost to the state budget of about EUR 1.8 million, but on the other hand, it improves the quality of life and care for people in care institutions. Today we are talking a lot about an institution-based service here, but I would like to conclude by pointing out that our common goal is to do everything in order for people to enter a nursing home only when it is urgently needed, perhaps as late as possible, i.e. when it really is not possible to provide other services. Thus, the social protection system must develop supportive services that provide people with the help they need so that they can do so independently or with some support in their home as long as possible, as this is the first preference for all older people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U118	Minister, just a suggestion: if you print out your text on A4, 15 lines will be one minute. It's relatively easy to rely on. As an old 'Actual Camera' worker, I still remember that pretty well. However, I believe that colleagues are not upset that we took advantage of this period because the answers were well prepared. Martin Helme, first question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U119	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. You're the one who told us how things should be and how they're on paper. However, the reason for our inquiry is that the problems are very serious and long-term. For example, when we talk about how patients in nursing homes are given psychotropic drugs with a party, without any accounting or prescription, and they are not prescribed by the doctor, but by any personalities, just so that they don't disturb anyone, repeated precepts and complaints have been made. But I ask a completely different question, as Estonia plans to develop a large network of nursing homes for a large euro money. What is the plan: is it intended to separate the so-called "housing service" and the "special service" related to health care, or are they not intended to be separated and dealt with in a single package? And yet it is a great concern for us that, now that these big projects are being built with public money or public money co-financing, how long will these nursing homes be obliged to provide this service? Can't it be that in a few years this house will become a hotel?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U120	Thank you for that question. Unfortunately, I do not understand its content, because I do not have the information that our country is about to have a major reform, reorganisation and construction of general care homes with European Union money in the near future. I don't have that kind of information.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U121	Raivo Põldaru.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U122	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! I heard from your presentation that this year there will be major changes in social welfare. Whether these include, for example, the fact that, if the Social Insurance Board finds during its inspections that the services have been provided and the minimum requirements have been met, but as far as staff are concerned, the Office considers that good services may not be provided because of the lack of staff. There are no requirements for the staff of the service companies. What kind of staff is it supposed to be? Or will there be changes this year?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U123	Thank you. As I said, a transitional period has been granted to ensure that qualified and adequately trained staff are available in general care homes. The transition period runs until the beginning of 2020 and this four-year period was still granted to all general care institutions in order to have a certain period of time. It is important to ensure that, if it falls more quickly, the relevant requirements are also met for workers. Of course, this does not mean that people's preparation and working skills are not being paid attention now. Their skills and, let's say, the ability to cope and the service provided in the nursing home will certainly be monitored. Apart from supervision, nursing homes themselves have taken certain steps to increase the professionalism of their employees. There have already been national professional competitions for care workers twice, precisely to promote good practices and skills. It is important, on the one hand, for the development of skills, but also for the recognition of this hard work, which requires commitment and is very important to each and every one of us. So they're dealing with both sides.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U124	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U125	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister! As I may have understood from your answers, general care homes are not being built more, but are only being renovated, upgraded and tried to improve their conditions. Is that right? And I'm gonna keep asking from here, is there a medical side for the staff working in the general care home now, or has it developed relatively chaotic and self-flow? Until 2020, the time has really been given to make things right. How's it going now?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U126	Thank you. I'm starting at the end, medical service. In fact, care centres do not have a direct requirement for them to provide medical services on the spot. They must provide medical services either locally or in cooperation with other medical service providers. There are different ways. A regular nursing home worker does not need to be a nurse, although it is good to have such a person hired in a nursing home. As I said, the problem is often how to pay such a salary that a person gets away from a hospital, another medical facility. Nursing homes have found a variety of solutions here to ensure local medical care. Often, nursing homes have also chosen their clients according to whether they have regular, stationary medical care on site or not. Of course, this also requires good cooperation with the local government, because the family doctor in this region should be the family doctor of this patient, the client in another region. In this sense, there are complex situations here, which I also described, as new family medicine centres are meant to have nursing assistance on the ground. This should improve the situation now. Medical care and its continuous provision in practice require a beautiful effort. Now it's about construction. At the moment, the ERDF measures are indeed reorganising and building new places for special care services, which are for people with special mental needs. There is no plan for the construction of general care homes from the Regional Fund during this period, there is no such agreement. General care homes are being built, but from other resources. First of all, they have been set up by private companies, as well as local authorities, and, as I said, in the previous period, the local authorities have been allocated money for this. We also want to improve and renovate general care homes from the CO2 measure. One application round was from the CO2 measure last year; new buildings could also be built from this year's new application round, either in place of the previous general care home or in place of another local government building that goes out of circulation due to insufficient energy efficiency. They are built, but not as a national measure. At the moment, it is clear that more nursing homes are coming, that there is a clear demand for them. This is done both by private companies and by local government units. It is not for the municipality to provide the service it organises itself, but also for the private operator to do so. However, there is another important measure on which local authorities could pay more attention. In the last sentence of my speech, I drew attention to this. In fact, it is the desire of the elderly to live in their homes as long as possible. This requires prior help, as well as arrangements to cope in your apartment or house. If you can no longer manage yourself in a larger apartment or house, many smaller municipalities now know that Tallinnaski plans to build so-called elderly houses, where people can cope with some additional help in small, economical and accessible apartments for a longer time. In order to build such buildings, local governments are currently able to receive support from KredEx. This is what many elderly people would be very happy about. Elderly people ask about this at meetings and say that please force local governments to build us such houses if we can no longer live apart, then we would like to live there. I hope that local authorities will use this support measure.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U127	Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U128	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Of course, all regulations and laws are necessary to regulate the area, but a number of issues remain, including those relating to qualified medical care. The press has given us very, very dark stories about how people in nursing homes are being forced into sedatives during weekends and holidays, essentially without any medical prescription or prescription, just to keep them quiet. What has the Ministry done specifically, or what is it going to do to prevent such criminal activity and, literally, the use of physical violence, both between patients and between staff and patients? The press has known that there have been beatings and other ugly stories. Does the Ministry have any plans for this?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U129	Thank you. It is quite clear that all such cases, as you have described, are unacceptable. That is why, this year, the general supervision of general care homes has shifted to the state structure, the Social Insurance Board, and this is consistent with the guidance given in Estonia and the task of taking into account the increased attention of general care institutions. Just as I said, precisely because a person is generally more vulnerable there, and monitoring of the activities of such institutions is absolutely necessary. As I have already said, this year, there have been a series of monitoring exercises in cooperation with the agencies. Indeed, they have also found irregularities. For the same reason, today was a very specific information day covering the whole day, where these shortcomings were discussed in detail. More serious infringements, of course, also have their consequences. Such things are certainly not to be tolerated. The Ministry of Social Affairs has also produced an information letter to the person who went to the nursing home and to his/her loved ones about what you should be able to pay attention to. People should be able to ask, be demanding and know what rights and obligations they have. For example, when a maintenance plan has to be made, what requirements it has to meet, etc. It is important that people understand the rights and responsibilities of the institution and have a clear view of it. We certainly want to educate people so that their awareness grows. There is, of course, another side here too: although we are monitoring and, if necessary, punishing or advising, the institutions themselves must see that in the event of deficiencies, the honour of their own tsunami is violated. They're pretty worried, just like you said. If there is such a story that people have been mistreated with drugs or have had other things, then it casts a shadow on everyone. On the one hand, a person has been left without help or has not received appropriate help, on the other hand, the peace of heart of the loved ones in the nursing home has gone, and the name of the staff of the institutions has been smeared in some ways. In this sense, there is a shared interest between welfare institutions and all the workers in nursing homes, so that supervision is consistent, helpful and effective. In all institutions, things should be fixed, so it can no longer be said that things are bad in nursing homes. Indeed, as with any other profession, including a politician, one stain stains a lot. The nursing homes themselves are also concerned about this.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U130	Please, Monika Hawkhammer!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U131	Minister, thank you very much. I will continue my question more or less from the place where you finished. It is very good that the Social Insurance Board has taken care of supervision and is doing so in cooperation with both the Health Board and the Agency. Since you today introduced the first results of the supervision of the Ministry, could you give us a very brief overview of what these findings were? I fully agree with you that supervision must be more advisory and directional, not punitive. However, you said in the previous reply that if necessary, you will punish. How do you punish them?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U132	Thank you. All penalties are provided for in the legislation, no self-creation can be done here. Precepts are the first things to be looked at and shortcomings need to be addressed. If there are worse violations, there can be the next steps. What are the main findings? One might say that two types of violations attracted more attention. Some are involved in, and supervision of, medicines, their handling, delivery and administration. It must be checked whether everything is stated, whether everything is kept correctly, whether there are medicines that have exceeded their shelf-life, etc. There are also cases where medicines are brought with them and then distributed among themselves. So the exact record keeping, keeping and proper administration of medicines was one such big issue and shortcomings were also found. The second issue is perhaps a new matter, namely the maintenance plan and its content. It is foreseen that a maintenance plan must be drawn up for all customers, indicating the activities, as well as developments and what will change. It is not conceivable that all 30 people, for example, have the same maintenance plan for the entire nursing home or that it will not change at all in two years. The plan must be meaningful; it must be understandable and reflect the reality of the situation. This relates to the third point, which is, let's say, a broader topic, namely cooperation with the local government, with the one where the person comes from. Often, a person comes to a nursing home without the necessary ex-ante assessment and waiting in the background, which should accompany him. So cooperation with the local government is certainly important. Cooperation with loved ones is also important. Here, an example was given that a person is found with bruises on his hand. What does that mean? In fact, older people may experience bruises very easily, even during activities, without any violence or harm, but loved ones should know it, there should be an overview of it. Communication with loved ones, information and advice should certainly be better. Regarding shortcomings, yes, there are, in particular, issues relating to medicinal products and issues relating to the content of the maintenance plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U133	Ain Lutsepp.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U134	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, Inevitably, an older person wonders at some point whether it is necessary to spend the time of the end of your life in a retirement home or a general care home. Then the question arises as to how much it all costs a daily fee, a monthly fee, etc. I realized that private companies and municipalities can renovate buildings, right, for CO2 money. My question is this: at what daily and monthly prices have these business plans been made? How much will the price be, what will be the cost of such a Euro-repaired retirement home of €1000, €1,500 or €2,000? Have you addressed these issues or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U135	I do not have a precise overview that when applications are made, what is the pre-requisite place fee in one project or another. In the case of the ERDF, i.e. special care projects, applicants can rely on the price that the state offers for this service, plus the own contribution that comes with it. But when we talk about CO2 and general care homes, the average monthly fee for a nursing home is about 700 euros. That's the mean. There are somewhat cheaper nursing homes than this, but there are also considerably more expensive ones, which are, say, the type of pensionate, with wider possibilities, with more spacious rooms, etc. The price depends on which services are offered. This 700 euros average is the money that is charged to the customer. Now, a very topical issue is how much this money costs an elderly person who is forced to use such a service at some point. It is well - known about the family law, which says that it is the family who has both ascendants and descending relatives, but of course the person himself first and then his family. In most cases, however, the Social Welfare Act has been overlooked, which obliges local authorities to ensure that the price of the service is affordable and that no one misses the service due to the price. Here it is sometimes misunderstood and assumed that the price of the general care home itself should be cheap. It can't be cheap. The service there is expensive, because there are people with high maintenance needs, there is a need for a lot of staff and there are buildings. So the price does not go down, but the local government must assess the ability of the person and his family to pay for this service. The missing section must be paid by the local authority. It is also a guide and a guide that is currently in the law. Last year, a guide evaluating maintenance and maintenance volume was prepared, which will be reviewed and discussed during this semester with local authorities during their training. Local authorities should be able to assess the ability of the family to pay for the care place and understand that the difference must be paid for itself. What are the possibilities for the country to provide relief? This is one subject that could not be touched on at the moment. As far as the creation of new places is concerned, for example, the creation of new places for dementias is planned. There's money in the state budget for that. By adapting places and creating new ones, we get a thousand places for dementias. This, again, gives such a very difficult target group a better chance, and we hope that, through it, it will also provide a slightly more favourable opportunity to get a place to work. We also have money in the state budget to build one of these more innovative and modern solutions for the elderly, for the very complex target group, so that there is also a good reference base and a vision of what a modern nursing home should be. It should be one that helps to provide a better service to a very complex target group.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U136	Arno Bridge.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U137	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. You've been dealing with nursing homes. And there was also a little talk earlier about the fact that such small apartments or single - room apartments are very much required, but they are certainly quite expensive to build. On all of this, I would ask you this: what is the situation with the queues now? Are there any seats for the elderly at the moment? How many are missing or over?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U138	Thank you. First of all, about the first thing you mentioned, the construction of small apartments is certainly expensive. That is why I have just pointed out that this year, in the new call for proposals, it will be possible to ask KredEx for money to either renovate buildings or build new ones where such apartments could be built. So, under the so-called "rental houses" programme, the first round of which was taken away last year, this year's call for proposals is specifically about building social housing. But for the small apartments you referred to, the usual rental housing measure is also suitable, just to plan and build the house in such a way that the apartments there are suitable specifically for those persons, good accessibility and sustainable. There is a support measure, precisely to enable these houses to be made. This is a measure aimed at local authorities. But now for the queues. Our general care homes usually have queues, and there are not many available places. If there is an emergency and there is a quick search for a place, it will be possible to find it, but it also depends much on the area of the area, some places have longer queues, while others are shorter. Sometimes it's possible to get a spot for a rapid reaction. As I said, it is more difficult for more sophisticated clients and patients who have a greater need for care or, for example, severe dementia. That is why we are paying more attention to these target groups and also want to give more support to the state. We do not have a very precise overview of the queues, because it is a service organised by the local government, and we know that sometimes a person is recorded for a couple. So there's no general record. It can be said, however, that if there are preventative and additional services, the queues could be relaxed. However, there is a part of the care homes that, in fact, should not yet be in such institutional care, because they would be able to cope if they had appropriate arrangements in some other way, just as the small apartment you referred to in the house from which the day is being examined and looked at whether there is a need for some small help. It could be arranged that way. Surely, the emergence of such houses would also free places where a person should not even be.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U139	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U140	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. There are 156 institutions in Estonia that provide general home care and nearly 60% of them are actually owned by the local government. If you look at the number of people in nursing homes, there are just over 8,000. I am quite convinced that the work done by most, a very large part of our nursing home employees and municipalities is excellent, it meets all the requirements. People do their job well. The press, as well as the close ones, must be acknowledged: if there are problems, they will be highlighted, whether people have been misbehaved or there is a misuse of bank cards. They must be brought to the public, and those responsible must be punished. The question is whether the emergency services, or its difficult availability, or the failure to attend nursing homes, also came up with the heads of nursing homes at today's meeting. They complained very much about this at the meeting of the nurses of the homes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U141	Thank you. Unfortunately, I could no longer be there during the panel discussion and during this debate. So I can't tell you what kind of proposals or problems they raised there right now. I'll get that review later. I do, Mrs Hunter, very much agree with the first half that you emphasised that mostly, in general, the work done in our nursing homes has been heartfelt and very well done. But, as I said, the heads of the nursing homes themselves admit that a drop of tar in one fireplace and another in the fireplace ruins a lot. That is why there is also a common interest for all of them, as well as for us, so that infringements, maliciousness or negligence can be quickly clarified and resolved. That is why we want to deal with it in a wide range of ways, to advise nursing homes, to ensure supervision, to inform customers and their loved ones, to educate them, to raise their awareness. So we want to deal with this on several fronts, because no one wants to know that there is poor care in the nursing home, and when we take our loved one there, we have to worry all the time. The care home managers themselves say that if their reputation is so poor, it is difficult to even find an employee, and he also asks why I should come to a place where it is assumed that I will probably not do the job well. The job is hard on the one hand, but grateful on the other. Care managers say that people are mostly grateful and very happy when their elderly parents or grandparents are well - cared for, and they also fight against purely soulful violations and bad cases. It is all the more important that we immediately learn about such matters so that supervision can react quickly and effectively.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U142	My colleague Enn Mere's membership group has already been signed by the Riigikogu Board, so tomorrow it will be reflected in all possible tabloids. However, this does not prevent you from asking the Minister a question right now. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U143	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister! You mentioned that the average nursing home fee is about 700 euros per month. We know very well that the average Estonian pension is not 700 euros per month. I understand from what you're saying, if there's a difference, the local government will compensate for it. Before compensation, will a person's financial situation be reviewed? I mean, when a person has an apartment, a real estate or some other property, for example.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U144	Thank you. That's exactly the order it goes in. For all social services, as well as for the general care home service, the first is the person's own responsibility, which is his or her income and resources. The same applies to families, such as children. It is clear, and so it is written that normal family performance must not be damaged because of this obligation, i.e. children's education of interest, self-employment, etc. You don't have to sell your car or give away your apartment or your dwelling, not meant to. But the person's own property, the family's property, is there a luxury and is the ability to pay a part or a whole part of the service price. Sometimes people misunderstand it. For example, it has been said that yes, of course, my mother still has real estate in Tallinn and some forest somewhere else, but it will, of course, remain my legacy. It is assumed that the local authority should pay for the maintenance. It's not like that. That is why there is a guide for assessing the maintenance obligation that was completed last year, so that we can have uniform rules so that all local authorities understand things in the same way. Now that these assessments have been carried out on the individual's own resources, his other assets and income, his family's other assets and incomes, but there is a deficit in paying for a nursing home, the Social Welfare Act really imposes an obligation on the local government.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U145	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U146	Thank you. Of course, this is a very difficult and grateful job. For all those who do this work with a heart, we are very grateful. Unfortunately, a few years ago, the Chancellor of Justice and the Agency must have paid attention to the problem of how the administration of medicines, especially sedatives, without any cause or prescription is extremely common. I may be wrong, but wasn't it in 60% of controlled nursing homes? When I was at a funeral recently, I heard that the same thing had happened to a deceased person - an extremely vital person - turned into an apathetic zombie in a nursing home. You spoke of punishment and injunctions, but give an example of whether someone has been really punished lately. Is mere precept sufficient? Maybe we should go after the licenses and even take criminal responsibility for those who abuse their power over the old people?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U147	Indeed, at different stages, there are different possibilities for what should be done. It may be difficult for me to comment on the past years afterwards, but as I said in my previous reply once, this year we have planned to control general care homes with emphasis and purpose in cooperation with all the agencies. A very important direction is, in particular, the detection of shortcomings in the handling, use and control of medicinal products, which are described here. I am sure that all these questions require a great deal of attention. If the infringements are serious or repeated, other measures must, of course, also be taken. In order for supervision to be effective and consistent, while providing sufficient advice and "no holes" to realise that this is the case, and so it remains, we have also called for additional financial resources to improve the efficiency of the agencies in the planning of the national budget strategy. It is very important, it is very voluminous, and it must be, as I said, such a network without holes, so that all things can be as clear as possible and be unambiguous: the desire, or even the thought, to tolerate or commit violations is not conceivable. At the same time, I would like to emphasise my support for counseling. People need to understand that there are laws and they are to be enforced. The current laws are sufficient, and if we comply with them, we are doing well. Supervision, advice and consequences. all of them must be met in a balanced and balanced way.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U148	Thank you, Minister. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the heirs Raivo Põldaru.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U149	Good vice chairman! Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for staying in the hall until the end of your EKRE inquiry and for your part in the finals. I promise I will not speak at length, but a few remarks and thoughts from the Minister's point of view. We have heard from the report that there will be uniform control of all institutions. In fact, I think it would be far more important for all welfare institutions across Estonia to have uniform access to services, so that people should not feel much better in one place than in another corner of Estonia, and health care services should be guaranteed for everyone. Indeed, as long as a person is healthy and there are no problems, he does not, I think, have any problem being somewhere in the care establishment. However, problems arise when help is needed. And since there are still old people in nursing homes who mostly need medical help, it's just a matter of medical service. We heard from the Minister's report that attention has been paid both to medical care and simply to carers' services. Unfortunately, there are no solutions so far. I do not think that even common rules can be of great benefit when people are scarce. One thing is the number of people, the other their qualifications. In terms of qualifications, we can raise workers. Perhaps on-site training or better courses and qualifications will be improved, but the question is whether they will continue. So far, there has been a greater need for nursing services. If these people are missing, we say that customers can be taken to where the service is available. Then again, the question arises as to whether transport exists, so that the customer can be taken to where he receives this medical service. Sometimes there's no transport. So the question still comes down to money and whether nursing homes are able to provide the services foreseen or whether they are able to offer them to such an extent that the human rights of customers are indeed guaranteed. We were talking about renovating buildings and allocating money for it. Indeed, a lot of nursing homes are located in houses that are not built for this purpose, but there are old manor houses and such. However, there are obstacles to the transport, movement, etc. of people. There was also talk about medical services and how people are cared for. These same containment measures are contrary to the laws of the Estonian country, but the scars of about half of the sick people lying there are still found. Again, the problem is purely a lack of people. I don't think those people who have chosen this job for themselves would be reckless. I'd rather suspect there's not as many of them as you need. The Minister did not talk about the number of employees, but he spoke about the need to improve their qualifications, but the question is still whether the number of people in these structures is sufficient to provide all the necessary services. Since I promised that I would be brief, I will not report all my comments. The Minister said that this year is a groundbreaking year in the provision of care services, which is why I believe that the thoughts and documents that are being developed will also apply and that there will be both tools and a frame for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U150	In case you want extra time, this is an option for negotiations. I understand from the body language that you don't need it. Please, Monika Hawkhammer!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U151	Mr President! Good minister! Good ambassadors! Every person in Estonia has the right to a decent ageing and state aid if, for whatever reason, he can no longer cope independently and living at home is excluded. However, a dignified ageing can only be achieved if all levels of co-operation between the state guarantees a decent pension and accessible health care service, municipalities provide people with the necessary services, such as general care, day care centres, social transport, hobby groups, the community ensures safety and, where necessary, neighbourhood surveillance, and neighbors, i.e. the daily communication and primary needs of the family. We actually need simple things to feel valued and kept. We need a human attitude, understanding, and confidence that there is always help when needed, because most of the time we can manage our lives well on our own. We are active at a high age, helping us to maintain social relations, physical and mental health. However, at some point, the need for flanking assistance is inevitable, and then we have a number of issues before us, especially those relating to care, and concerns that need to be resolved. The organisation and cost of care are of great concern in the elderly: no one wants to remain a burden on their children and grandchildren. The concerns of older people about their future cause them stress and depression, and rarely even suicide attempts, as the situation is often inescapable. It is precisely those situations in which a person is unable to participate in decisions that affect his or her life that break people's sense of security and cause hopelessness. Ensuring the livelihood of the elderly is largely the responsibility of the family as a result of our constitution and family law, i.e. both caring and financing the necessary services. The Social Welfare Act makes it clear that a general care service provided outside the home, for example, called an elderly home service, is a service provided by the local government and requires a maintenance plan. The law doesn't say much else. In order for the general care service to be available to any person in need, regardless of the size of the old person's pension, the availability of property or the solvency of children, to be of high quality and safe, and to be treated in a decent manner without humiliation or discrimination, the next six steps must be taken as a matter of urgency, which I will also read to you here. In fact, the things I read here, the Minister touched on in one way or another. Firstly, the diversity of services with different levels of care, as certainly the best place to live and also to spend the end of life undoubtedly in your home. There must therefore be a plurality of services, i.e. the principle that services come to the person, rather than the fact that older people are brought to the service. Older people's homes are the most expensive service and the most illogical living environment for people. It is therefore necessary to support the diversity and delivery of services with different support, in particular community-based services. Secondly, the cost of a home service for the elderly. An average pension should guarantee a place in the home of the elderly. If the average pension is 446 euros, the person receives the service. However, if the cost of a home for the elderly is about 700 to 800 euros, someone will have to pay for this difference, for example, if we were to take care of a family, a local government or a state. We actually need a care insurance product, although the government is not prepared to do so. It is justified that the World Bank does not support it, and so we do not. Maybe this is really not acceptable to our Estonian state, but then we need a solution. However, this has not yet been proposed, but the next plans will be made. Thirdly, the abolition of the family's exclusive responsibility. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U152	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U153	The obligation to pay the service must be decoupled from the existence of children and their ability. We must treat older people with children and without children equally. This is not the case now, although the Minister has just said that this should be appreciated and if the family does not have solvency, the local authority should come to the aid. But we've all heard these stories forever, and we know that it's not really that simple. Requirements for services. The Minister has not made use of the mandate given to him by the Social Welfare Act to lay down the requirements specified for the purpose and content of the service of the elderly home. Therefore, the quality of services is uneven and sometimes unsatisfactory for us. Perhaps there should be requirements for services, there is also something to rely on to monitor. For years, I do not know how much has been said about the need to introduce a system of licences. There is still no system for the elderly home service. Anyone can start providing the service as they please. How is that possible? Are we playing with people's well-being and their well-being? Once again, a promise is made that we will do this by 2020. Why are these things taking so long? I don't get it from time to time. Surveillance, which should be helpful, not punitive. I completely agree with the Minister in this respect. It is now a little difficult to do this because we do not have specific requirements. If there is no licensing system, how can we ensure the supervision of services? Instead of rural governments, this should now be done by the Social Insurance Board. At the same time, the service must be equally accessible to all those in need, in both Virus and Võru, in both Saares and Narva. Last week I heard a comment that sounded something like this: the state has so far literally washed its hands on care services for the elderly, pushing it onto the shoulders of a family, that is unfair. I strongly agree with this comment. After all, under the conditions of an ageing society, each hand of work is important. Why, then, are we contrary to political rhetoric 'Everyone in the labour market! " We often force a family into care because it is not financially possible to pay for an elderly home? How can we put families in a position where we often force them to choose whether to pay for the service of our grandmother or old man's elderly home, to enable children to take part in a hobby or to exercise? Finally. If we want more children to be born in Estonia, we should talk much more about the elderly, the dignity of old age and the care and financial burden of families in their grandparents' livelihoods, alongside family policy. When the state invests in older people, it invests in much more, not only in profitability, but also in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U154	There are no further requests to speak. There is one. Minister Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U155	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I would like to bring a few keywords from your comments. I took a few notes, and I'm gonna do a little point-by-point feedback. Here it was noted that the availability of services should be the same across Estonia. Indeed, that is also our goal. The person's place of residence should not depend on the kind of service he receives in one place or another of Estonia. Since 2016, the Social Welfare Act also lists both the services themselves and the primary requirements for the services that the municipality must offer. These services are essentially local government services, the more difficult of which is where the state comes to the aid. To this end, the State has now announced calls for proposals and calls for proposals in order to be able to promote these services. This year, the income base of local governments increased by 33 million with so-called 'free money', and we hope that a fairly large part of it will be spent on the social sector. This year we will have a close look at long-term care and its mitigation. At the end of the year, we will get to the government with these measures and then with the financial proposals for the budgetary strategy of the country next year, how to ensure that the quality of the quality of care is maintained in a uniform manner throughout Estonia. Now, as far as the number of employees per customer in one institution or another is concerned, we could look at the general numbers here, but all of this still depends very much on the need for maintenance, whether they are heavy customers, i.e. those who are ill with high maintenance needs, or those who carry themselves, eat themselves, etc. It all depends on the need for help somewhere. When I mentioned earlier that there are measures for the development of services for local authorities, one of the things that we hope will be good solutions is, for example, voluntary procurement. We want to encourage and encourage volunteer work alongside social workers, because it is often the first small help or the supplement that the elderly need in order not to have a greater need for help in the future. One of the things I heard at the end of this was that it was as if after the person himself came to the state immediately. No, you're not. The family will remain the first and most important safety net a person has. Just as parents raise their children, children take part in caring for their parents. This does not mean this, and it must not mean at all that it is an obligation to stay at home and care for your parents. But things need to be arranged and the best solutions found in a family way. Now, the same false myth came through here that the family had to give up their normal rhythm, their children's education, etc., and put all their money into the care of older parents. It's not like that. The Social Welfare Act imposes an assessment obligation on the local government. It is the local government that sees the need for help in the most detail. Why is there a word for "municipality"? That's why. What's the point of this? This is that of the local government... (Please ask for extra time! It's not on this? Okay. )... develop all preventive services. Then he's got a motivation for it. There are measures that help older people to cope at home, but if they do not exist, they do not reach this far, or the situation is already such that older people need care in the institution, then the local government pays the necessary and missing part. We cannot exclude or eliminate the local government from the intermediate phase. So I believe that there are good solutions here if we start to comply with the laws that are already in force. We take on the important role of informing people and trying to raise their awareness. Communicating with local governments, communicating with and getting help from the need for help is not a shame, it is a primary, logical and normal matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U156	Thank you, Minister. The debate on the question is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-09_U157	According to tradition, the free microphone of the Riigikogu is opened with a hammer. There's no call. Thank you for your work today. I'll see you tomorrow morning at 10:00. Closure of the sitting at 6.50 p.m.
