ParlaMint-EE_2018-08-22_U1	Honourable Riigikogu, I'm sorry that in the summer someone has chewed through the hall call wires! It came as a surprise to me, too. Thank you for your understanding. Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the extraordinary plenary session, which I have convened in accordance with § 68 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia and § 51 (1) of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure Act, at the time and on the agenda requested by the Government of the Republic.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-08-22_U2	Let's start with the commitment we all have here. The oath of Aivar Surva, a member of the Riigikogu. Honourable Riigikogu! On 1 August Aivar Surva became a member of the Riigikogu, following the resignation of Deniss Borodich. Let's hear his oath. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-08-22_U3	Hello, Mr President. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! By taking up my duties as a member of the Riigikogu in the composition of Riigikogu XIII, I swear to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2018-08-22_U4	Honourable Riigikogu! By decision of the President of the Republic on 22 August, Rene Tammis has been appointed Minister of Enterprise and Information Technology. Next, we will hear his oath. Please, René of Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-08-22_U5	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Riigikogu! Prime Minister! In taking on the duties of a member of the Government of the Republic, I am aware that in this capacity I am responsible for the Republic of Estonia and my conscience. I solemnly swear to remain faithful to the constitutional order of the Republic of Estonia and to devote my strength to securing the well-being and future of the Estonian people. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2018-08-22_U6	Who wants to hand over drafts and inquiries? Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-08-22_U7	Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of many members of the Riigikogu, I have an inquiry to report to the Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu. The inquiry concerns the money laundering case of Danske Bank. In 2007, more than eight and a half billion euros could be washed through Danske Bank's branch. For some reason, the so-called defence walls of the Republic of Estonia did not work enough. Warnings from neighbouring countries came from Russia many years ago and came from France. For some reason, however, our authorities took these signals and warnings very lukewarmly. That is why our reputation has been seriously wounded and we must develop rules of the game to avoid such serious mistakes in the future. All the more so as on 31 July, the Minister for Justice has said to the public: 'Today, it is clear that a serious problem with supervision has been the flow of information between all the competent national authorities and the lack of analytical capacity for all the information. " On July 30, Jürgen Ligi, former Minister of Finance and Chairman of the Financial Supervision Board, told Delfi's portal that it was not his fault to make a mismanagement in his day. On this basis, we have questions for the Minister of Justice. How can we improve the fences? How to improve information exchange and increase competences? What is the responsibility of the Financial Supervision Authority? Or is it what happened in the case of the Port of Tallinn that the Council is not responsible for anything?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-08-22_U8	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-08-22_U9	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Riigikogu! I am delighted to discuss the question on behalf of many members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Finance, Toomas Tõnis. This inquiry concerns the extraordinary dividend of the Port of Tallinn. Last week, news came that the record ownership income taken by the state led to the large losses of the Port of Tallinn. The loss in the first half of the year was caused by a dividend payment of EUR 105 million made in April this year and related income tax expenditure. Of this EUR 48 million dividend payment of 105 million, the standard dividend income is, however, 57 million is mainly money received from IPO. The Government of the Republic decided to direct its extraordinary income, EUR 57 million, not to the stabilisation reserve, or the country's future needs, and to mitigate future risks, but to the liquidity reserve. However, the decision to direct the liquidity reserve means that this IPO money is to be spent at the time of its receipt, i.e. in 2018. In this regard, we have a number of questions for the Minister of Finance. First of all, the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure has said here in front of the Riigikogu that the government discussed whether to put this money in the liquidity reserve or in the stabilisation reserve. He told us that the government was based on a proposal from the Minister of Finance. That is why we need to ask the Minister for Finance why he proposed this if he should be concerned about mitigating the country's future risks and increasing the stabilisation reserve. In addition, we have a number of other questions on this subject. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-08-22_U10	Thank you. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-08-22_U11	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, The 19 members of the Reform Party Group will make an inquiry to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas regarding border trade. What's the matter? I always like to look at the figures, and when I looked at the budget receipts, it turned out that the level of excise duties in the first half of this year was incredibly low compared to what was planned in the budget. Couple of examples. Alcohol duty is 35.8%, tobacco duty is less than 42%, fuel duty 44%. If we take earlier years, then the figures were significantly better. There have also been articles and speeches on this. I would like to ask how their rates of excise duty on Estonia and Latvia are. How much work has this led to the Tax and Customs Board to fight smuggling and the black market? What is the real loss of tax revenue? Does the Prime Minister consider this to be a problem of poor tax receipts, precisely because of the massive increase in border trade? If he sees that there is a problem, what will he do? The question also concerns yesterday's announcement that the issue of excise duties was not discussed at a meeting with the Latvian Government. Why does the Prime Minister feel that he does not have to take into account the excise policy of his neighbours? And the question we still have is why the central party government does not want to lower excise duty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-08-22_U12	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-08-22_U13	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Members of the Riigikogu! Prime Minister! On 24 June, Mikk Marran, Director-General of the Foreign Intelligence Board, was published in the Estonian Päevaleht, where he says that there are a large number of Russian influence agents among us who receive orders and do what the Kremlin commands. And Marran's quote: 'The politicians who were on the verge of local politics a few years ago have now reached Parliament or government, and we can see clearly that these people are running a Russian agenda there. ' I took out all the names that have come from local politics to the Riigikogu since 2015, and those who have previously been mayors, councillors or the parents of the district. Fourteen people left on the sieve. Only Martin Repinski survived the government of the Republic because Tarmo Tamm was the mayor before. Seven delegates from the Centre Party and the EKRE ask four questions. Is it true that there are Russian agents among us who receive orders from the Kremlin? Secondly, have the next members of the Riigikogu since Toomas Jürgenstein and ending up with Hardi Volmer, total 14, and have there been Russian influence agents in the Government of the Republic of Martin Repinski? What has the Secretary of Defense, to whom the Foreign Intelligence Office is subject, done to prevent them from doing so? Is all this true? If this is not true, has he considered dismissing the Director General of the Foreign Intelligence Directorate for unjust defamation of high state figures? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-08-22_U14	Seven MPs have submitted an inquiry. It's all right. Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-08-22_U15	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Two introductory remarks. First of all, I will continue where Eerik-Niles Kross left off with regard to Magnitski's list, but I would like to place some pressure on another place than my colleague Jaanus Karilaid. Third comment: no matter how we would like to be, there is no way to ask the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Estonia anything about him, to think anything about him and to regard the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Estonia in any way. They are there, we are here, and the only thing that connects us is free public transport in Tallinn. In this context, a question must be asked to the person who is subject to us, it is the Minister of Justice of the Republic of Estonia and also the Prime Minister. The question is that the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Republic has made a preliminary decision that the murder of the case presented by Bill Browder and Magnitski as a whole does not make sense to investigate, because the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Republic said that nothing will come from there anyway, because Russia will not cooperate with us. Eerik-Niiles Kross emphasised and you know this so-called respect for rule of law and Sergei Magnitsky act, which was adopted by the US Congress, that the Russian government is not a collaborator for Estonia in the Magnitski case, but a prosecutor. In this regard, the question: what does the Minister of Justice explain in the case of the prosecution's failure to act in the case of murder within four years? The motive of the murder was one of the motives of the Narva highway. Does this mean that killings may be planned on Estonian territory?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-08-22_U16	Thank you. Even if the speech's good, we'll have to hang up in two minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-08-22_U17	It's really hard.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-08-22_U18	You gonna give me something?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-08-22_U19	You want some paper? Look, you're confusing a person, and then after you ask... Here you go! Have a nice summer!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-08-22_U20	This is an inquiry. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-08-22_U21	Honourable Chairman! Ministers! Members of the Riigikogu! We had a pleasant opportunity today to listen to the oath of a new member. And the returning members of the Riigikogu are still, our rotation is quite intense. In some cases, it is quite natural, for reasons of government, but not always. The Free Party Group has decided to submit a draft law amending the Act on the status of a member of the Riigikogu, which regulates the benefits of leaving the Riigikogu. We've done this once on behalf of the Lost Andres Ammas. We weren't heard back then. The first voluntary wave of distancing from political work was at the beginning of this very composition, and now, at the beginning of this summer, three more members of the Riigikogu continued to leave, often receiving a new post as a political sinecurium. We feel that it is not appropriate to pay three months' compensation in this case. We apply for an amendment so that the benefit can last only one month and it cannot arise if a member of the Riigikogu has been in office for less than two years. I believe that it will help to improve the credibility and authority of the Riigikogu if we take away the privilege that employees cannot dream of in the public sector or under the ordinary employment contract law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-08-22_U22	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-08-22_U23	Good Prime Minister! The eight members of the Free Party Group have a question for you about alternative solutions to the development of the eastern border. In fact, the Committee on Legal Affairs has been coming together several times during the summer and, as a serious issue, has discussed the appreciation of the eastern border, as it has become at least 4 to 5.5 times more expensive in the last two years and this is confusing. What is confusing is that, as it turns out, no alternatives have been sought or discussed in the discussions of the cabinet, and no discussion has been made about what the modern limit means in a way other than that which has been put on the table so far. The Auditor General has made it very clear that there are delegates, let us say, ministers and other persons present at the meeting of the Cabinet, who are a little distracted by this. It is incomprehensible why the Prime Minister is not doing anything, looking at the fact that the Estonian state has several major investment plans ahead. We will take Rail Baltic, which is a long-term construction, and we will first of all have a labour crisis that we have already stated in this Chamber, that there will certainly be a problem when we build the eastern border too, that we do not have a workforce, and, secondly, whether we can keep such large objects up at all. Perhaps there is no comprehensive management, no strategic management based on our national capabilities. That is why we are asking the Prime Minister what it will be like to build this border and manage the whole process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-08-22_U24	As the representative of the Government of the Republic, Marika Seppius, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-08-22_U25	Dear Chairman, Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching 12 draft laws today. Firstly, the draft law amending the railway law. Kadri Simson, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, will represent the Government of the Republic in processing this draft in the Riigikogu. Secondly, the draft law amending the Public Information Act. In processing this draft, the Government of the Republic is represented in the Riigikogu by Rene Tammis, Minister of Enterprise and Information Technology. Thirdly, the draft law ratifying the agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Republic of Poland on the amendment and termination of the agreement on mutual facilitation and protection of investments. The Government of the Republic is represented in the Riigikogu by the Minister of Foreign Affairs Sven Mikser. Fourthly, the draft law amending the Police and Border Guard Act and related amendments to other laws. The Government of the Republic is represented in the Riigikogu by Andres Anvelt, Minister of the Interior. Fifthly, the draft law amending the VAT Act. Sixth, the draft law amending the Tax Administration Act and related amendments to other laws. When dealing with these two drafts in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance Toomas Tõniste. Seventh, the bill to amend the Nature Conservation Act. Eighthly, the draft Act on the Accession of the 1979 Convention on Long-Range Transboundary Air Pollution to the Protocol on acidification, eutrophication and reduction of ground-level ozone and on the approval of the 2012 amendments to the Protocol. Siim Kiisler, Minister of the Environment, will represent the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of these two drafts in the Riigikogu. Ninth, the draft law on the prevention of unfair competition and the protection of business secrets. Tenth, Bill of the Personal Data Protection Act. Eleventh, draft law on the amendment of the Prisoning Act. Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, represents the Government of the Republic of Estonia when dealing with these three drafts in the Riigikogu. And by the twelfth, the draft law amending the law on the release of genetically modified organisms and the law on plant protection. Tarmo Tamm, Minister of Rural Affairs, will represent the Government of the Republic in processing this draft in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-08-22_U26	I have adopted 13 drafts and six questions on behalf of the Bureau. As always, on the basis of the Home and Working Procedures Act, we will proceed with them. Honourable Riigikogu! Once again, I apologize for being forced to signal all the important things that are going on here, with the same device, because other mechanics aren't working yet. So now I'm ringing the bell. Incoming check, please! [[???I. Gräzin saalist: 'Protseduuriline!'???]] 85 members of the Riigikogu are present, 16 are missing. Igor Gräzin, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-08-22_U27	I take the view that the current control of presence was illegal. And here's the reason. The Board of the Riigikogu has not explained the need to convene an extraordinary sitting. Would you please explain in a few words what happened to the relief officers that caused an emergency call two weeks earlier? By the way, I would like to point out that the oath of the Minister is ultimately one person's whim and therefore the Riigikogu is, in my opinion, contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, to which, by the way, the oath was given. So why?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-08-22_U28	The Riigikogu meets exceptionally on the proposal of the initiator of the idea of this extraordinary session, in this case the Government of the Republic. I think the Government of the Republic was interested in his ability to work here, too. Unfortunately, we do not have such a cause for convocation here. So an extraordinary meeting has been convened on the agenda proposed and proposed by the Government of the Republic. The Riigikogu has no need to explain to the MP Gräzin here; he can read all this himself in the Rules of Procedure. Okay. Any other questions? Please, Hanno Pevkur, a procedural question! [[Voices from the floor.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2018-08-22_U29	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Maybe I didn't notice, but does my memory deceive me that for the extraordinary sitting of the Riigikogu, 51 members of the people we had presently nicely? If it hadn't been, would the Minister's oath have remained illegal? In other words, shouldn't you have checked the presence before to hear the Minister's oath to a working Riigikogu? It was good that we had more than 51 members of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-08-22_U30	Thank you. It's an interesting argument, Hanno. Because the current practice of the Riigikogu has been... what? In the 1990's, there were also extraordinary sessions where the attendance check was followed by disbanding, but all the drafts that were passed before that were still open. The second practice we have had is that the oaths of office are given when the session is inaugurated, which is also entirely natural. So here's an interesting argument. My engineering mind would have said that the hearing was disbanded because there was no judgment, but vows were made. Lawyers may have a different opinion. But I totally agree with you that this is not the case. Igor Gräzin has another procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-08-22_U31	The answer is protocol, not procedural...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-08-22_U32	There is no protocol question, there is a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-08-22_U33	The answer was as exhaustive as it could possibly be. You called it wrong. You said, 'Member of the Riigikogu Gräzin. ' You did not say: 'The chairman of the parliamentary dignity working group of the Estonian Riigikogu, whose deputy is my party partner Barbi Pilvre. 'The group comprises 12 people, and one of the first things is that we have said: the Riigikogu is not called on a whistle. Period. Let's be clear! And please leave Gräzin alone in this place.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-08-22_U34	I very much apologize to Igor Gräzin for not mentioning all his honorable occupations, which he is happy to hold and for which we are all grateful to him. Next, Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-08-22_U35	I didn't want to get involved, but since this is a little bit about what I'm doing, I'm going to ask you a question. On behalf of the political group, I agreed that an extraordinary sitting should take place, point one. Point two, but I also said that the drafts should not be put on the agenda. My question is, did you seriously consider it? A draft has now come on the agenda, which has indeed not been seriously debated by the political groups. That was my warning, too. It's a complicated bill. Why did you put it on the agenda? Is that a rule of law?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-08-22_U36	The requirement of the Rules of Procedure is that the initiator of the extraordinary session also presents the agenda, otherwise it would not be possible to meet exceptionally. So this proposal has come from the Government of the Republic, that's all I can say. Arto Aas, a procedural question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-08-22_U37	Thank you. I think that, if the Rules of Procedure were reviewed, I believe it would be more logical if there were an immediate check of presence at the beginning of the extraordinary session, all the oaths of office of members of the Riigikogu and ministers would have been made in the correct environment. But my question is quite different at the moment. I see Urve Palo is in the hall and his alternate Liisa Oviir is also in the hall. Are we admitting the historic moment when the Riigikogu is 102 members?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-08-22_U38	No, we're not admitting a historic moment. The powers of Urve Palo as a member of the Riigikogu will be restored by law tomorrow and the powers of Liisa Oviir as a member of the Riigikogu will end tomorrow. So at midnight, this is going to be a change. Peep Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-08-22_U39	Thank you. I also have a question from the previous questions. Since we have a draft law on the agenda today, on the basis of the agenda presented by the Government of the Republic, how can it be understood that, on the basis of the agenda submitted by the Government of the Republic, the Committee on Legal Affairs had to meet quickly on the basis of an advance notice of one and a half days? Is that normal?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-08-22_U40	The Committee on Legal Affairs was very sensible. I think that the Committee on Legal Affairs is also interested that a number of drafts initiated by their own members would pass the first reading. But now we need to set a timetable for the work of the extraordinary session on the basis of § 52 of the Home and Working Procedures Act. The management board of the Riigikogu has a simple proposal: to work without a break until the agenda is exhausted. I shall put this proposal to the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on establishing a timetable for the work of the Riigikogu: work without break until the agenda is exhausted. Please take a stand and vote. 69 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of establishing the working schedule in this form, no one opposed, with three abstentions. Working schedule accepted.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-08-22_U41	Let's get started. First reading of Bill 631. The members of the Riigikogu are Jaak Madison, Kalle Laanet, Jaanus Karilaid, Toomas Vitsut, Raivo Aeg, Uno Kaskpeit, Valdo Randpere, Külmiki Kübarsepp, Margus Tsahkna and Liisa Oviir. Distributor waitress Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-08-22_U42	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good Prime Minister, who has already left the hall! Ladies and gentlemen, To be honest, it was also a surprise to me that this bill would be discussed in an emergency session. I found out exactly a week ago, and the day before the Legal Affairs Committee, which made the situation a little complicated. But since it had already been announced on the agenda of the Committee on Legal Affairs, it had to be done. At the same time, we are not losing any of this because the bill needs to be dealt with anyway, and one day it will have to make it to the third reading. This is a bill initiated by 10 members of the Riigikogu. The signatories are from all political groups, in addition to the independent ambassador Margus Tsahkna. The majority of the signatories are also members of the Committee on Legal Affairs who themselves process this draft. It is therefore a cross-party initiative. These are issues of direct concern to internal security: the involvement of auxiliary police officers in the police system, the elimination of loopholes, the enhancement of efficiency and the modernisation of the law. The current law dates back to 2010, which was slightly revised in 2014. Inevitably, time has moved on, the nature of the work has changed a lot and the real need for volunteers has changed, so it is also time to update the law. Surely everyone has already read the draft in depth and has also read the explanatory statement and all the reasons for it. In addition, I can briefly say that this is the initial option of how many points we are still discussing with the Ministry of the Interior. We will see which amendments come for second reading, they will also come for debate in the Committee on Legal Affairs. We're trying to find a compromise. There are certain issues where we disagree, but at the same time there was an agreement that there would certainly be clarifications, improvements and changes so that we could find a golden middleway and this bill would one day, hopefully, become a law. If there are any specific questions, I'd be happy to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-08-22_U43	Questions for the waitress. Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-08-22_U44	Thank you to the manager. Good waitress! The Ministry of the Interior, in itself, supports this draft in substance, but they also made quite a lot of criticism. Could you introduce these main arguments to the big hall? Where can we have disputes over the next month?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-08-22_U45	Thank you, Reverend Asker! Yeah, the main discussion begins with a definition of who we understand as an assistant police officer, what his duties are and what is expected of him. The Ministry of the Interior has, in its objection to a number of amendments made in a number of drafts, justified the need for deeper analysis and negotiation with stakeholders. This naturally gives rise to further questions as to what kind of analysis is needed and who are those interest groups that should be more involved. As we know, all parties acknowledge that there are very substantive problems and there are substantive solutions that could improve the situation, but the Ministry of the Interior still does not want to go along with this on several points. I can't tell you why. If another ten years ago it was assumed that a volunteer assistant police officer would be the kind of person who would help ensure public order, catch smoking minors and make sure that no one would cross the road with a red light, then today there are 20 auxiliary police officers in the criminal police. Most of them are former police officers who have left the police system for various reasons, whether for economic or private reasons, but they continue to contribute to our security, have the status of an assistant police officer, and have rights and obligations under law. But, of course, their potential contribution does not correspond to what this law allows. The response or reaction of the Ministry of Home Affairs on this issue was a little negative, as if we should not give the opportunity to contribute more to those people who have the appropriate qualifications and training to also operate in a drug crime unit, cybercrime unit or traffic police. In fact, the police system is so wide, people could be involved everywhere, people who are willing to contribute and study their spare time, go to training, or who have already been trained, but who have had to leave the police system, but who could continue to do this job without any financial expectation. This has been the main point of debate. Let me give a brief example quickly. One of the biggest points in the discussion, of course, is the weapon. Firearms always create emotions and raise people's blood pressure. Personally, I have also tried to explain in the ministry that, if there is uniform training, there is a uniform examination in order to obtain the right to carry a service weapon at all, then obviously we should be able to use this weapon on the same or at least similar grounds as officials, when officials and persons with the status of assistant police officers carry out similar tasks and perform similar tasks. For example, the criminal police, a very specific example. The law allows a weapon to be used only for emergency protection, that is, when there is a direct threat to life, only in that case. But, for example, if you're with a partner and a suspect gets away in a double homicide, the officer may use a firearm to prevent the escape, but his partner, the same trained person and the person who passed the same weapons test may not use it. Perhaps this is an unequal situation, an official has a much greater burden, he cannot rely on his partner's support and help at this critical moment. There are many of these examples. If there's any more questions, I'd be happy to answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-08-22_U46	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-08-22_U47	Thank you, good Chairman. Good waitress! I come to the issue and use of the same weapon. The bill makes it very clear that in the end, the Director General of the Police and Border Guard Board is responsible for issuing weapons to auxiliary police officers. He must be convinced that they have been trained and that all structures and trust exist. What happens if the Director General of the Police and Border Guard Board doesn't take responsibility for a case? That, of course, depends on the human being. There have now been examples when taking responsibility has been very difficult. How is this guaranteed?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-08-22_U48	Thank you, Honourable Asker. I'm going to clarify that a little bit. In fact, the draft, as well as the current law, says that any special instrument, not only a firearm, but also a telescopic knife, a gas weapon, future electric shock weapon, will be issued with the written permission of the Director General of the Police and Border Guard Board or his authorised official, that is to say, not only the Director General. The current law also states that this law does not change this situation.. that the weapon is issued with the permission of the Director General or his authorised official. Perhaps, in fact, it is issued at the level of the department, in your home department or in the structural unit where you operate, it may also be a drug crime unit or a criminal police unit, its leader actually empowers you to issue a special instrument. It's just like the police officers now, there's no difference. As far as responsibility is concerned, I do not recall any concrete example at the moment if a discussion had arisen in the public sphere, because the relief police would have very significantly violated the procedure for using special instruments. After all, the public has always had a debate or a dispute over the use of a firearm to resolve a situation, whether it was justified, whether it was perhaps the use of excessive force. However, I do not recall any cases, even in the case of police officers, if a firearm had been abused. Perhaps the most obvious example is last year's tragic case in the Freedom Square, when one person really died, but even in this case, certain people tried to say that it was an excessive use of force and what is happening now is whether people are going to be shot. In fact, it is not true, it is the last possible emergency response to save a person's life, it is still a very prudent decision when such a special instrument is used. This was also demonstrated by the case of the Freedom Square, when there was no other means of actually resolving that situation, unfortunately, no longer. I think that every precedent creates new examples and opens up a new discussion, but looking at the training and qualifications of assistant police officers, it can be said that they can handle it. This is proof of the fact that during this year, 15 auxiliary police officers have become police officers, i.e. they have been so well trained and experienced in volunteering for a year, two or three years that they are able to become police officers. This, of course, is also due to a huge lack of resources in our police system, a lack of human resources and a lack of where to take from, but of course, so there is what to take. I do not think that there has been any precedent so far that could be said that confidence has been abused.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-08-22_U49	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-08-22_U50	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Honourable waitress! It is likely that the details of the committees will still be debated, and indeed, as regards the relationship between the rights and responsibilities of auxiliary police officers. But my question is, of course, I'm putting you in a difficult position, you haven't prepared to say any such statistical numbers, for the sake of a bigger picture, you can now tell us what the contribution of the assistant police officers is to guarantee public order. Why am I asking that? When the relief police were brought back to life, he was more fit to bring more blue paint to the street, and then ministers are good at talking about volunteering using PowerPoint, but now the relief police are actually making up for the shortage of resources that the police have in public order. Can you explain any relationship to us for the sake of a bigger picture?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-08-22_U51	Thank you, Reverend Asker! This is not a question at all that I would not have prepared to answer. I haven't read the text before, because I only came out of direct action in the morning, but I have these numbers to take more or less immediately. Last year we had a total of 1023 persons on the list of auxiliary police officers across Estonia, today, seven months later, this figure has increased. Just yesterday, I know, a new initial training started at the North Prefecture. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2018-08-22_U52	Honourable members of the Riigikogu, especially those who debate there under the vaults! It's all echoing here. Excuse me, Jack!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-08-22_U53	You'd better come this way, it's more interesting! But speaking of classes, it took 120589 hours for police action last year. This includes all activities: patrolling, training, training, youth operations, criminal office activities, everything goes down there. Of these 120,000 hours, 48,960 hours were the work in the North Prefecture. The Prefecture of the North is undoubtedly the best manned, as there is the greatest need for police officers, no doubt, compared to other regions of Estonia. There were 371 auxiliary police officers in the North Prefecture at the end of last year. Tonight it's a number, I guess, 400 at the border, or it's already exceeded. This figure has grown steadily. Practical examples. On Saturday-Sunday, just a few days ago, there were only three police cars in the centre of the city, covering an area where there are nearly 200,000 people (North Tallinn, Old Town, Downtown, Kristiine), even though there should be five. It shows a very serious situation. The seriousness of the situation was also demonstrated by last night when tragic accidents occurred in a very short time. You've all read in the media that a motorcyclist crashed a tram. If there were already two patrols closed because of this accident, then there was only one left. If this one gets a challenge, if there's domestic violence somewhere, the whole resource's stuck, there's no more resources. Consequently, the aid must come from somewhere else in the West Harju, East Harju or elsewhere in the departments when the challenge comes. As a result, they are constantly trying to find volunteers who have been adequately trained and are willing to come with an "ex-prompt," at short notice, if an additional patrol is urgently needed. And they will, of course, come who can. This demonstrates the urgent need to give them greater rights and opportunities, and with it greater responsibility. We have people who want to take this responsibility and can bear it, but they have still not been given a legal opportunity to contribute more than they do now.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-08-22_U54	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-08-22_U55	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, The explanatory memorandum to the draft act, as well as your replies, shows that the interest of citizens in protecting public order on a voluntary basis is on a growing trend. You also brought in information that many of them have become professional police officers. My question concerns some arbitrary prognosis. Now, if the auxiliary police are becoming increasingly similar to the police in terms of form and the right to keep a weapon at home, what is the future in a few years or ten years and the proportion of the number of professional police officers and auxiliary police officers? Are we going down the road that the majority of auxiliary police are fewer, or do we still need a professional police officer to grow?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-08-22_U56	Thank you, Reverend Asker! That is the very right and justified question, because, in fact, we are currently solving a substantive and very serious problem like one corner. If this one angle that we're talking about right now becomes too dominant, the other angle will be without creating. This without creating angle is precisely the resource, the real police officers who are directly on the payroll, who are obliged to go out according to their work schedule, who cannot say last night that they do not want or cannot come in tomorrow, they are responsible for this work. If this side is not covered, which has happened today, because we do not have enough human resources, then the situation is very tragic. Actually, it's a two-way highway. On the one hand, we need to give people who are willing to contribute voluntarily, opportunities to participate in training and training and actually do this work, but at the same time we also need to address this other problem, which is a huge lack of resources in the PBA, we need to deal with wage growth and motivate young people to go to the Internal Defence Academy after the end of the upper secondary school to become a police officer. It's like the other side, which we need to do very seriously. The most dangerous option that can happen, and what has actually happened at some rate, is that it has already been calculated, I hope, not on paper, but at least mentally, with this resource, by the fact that we certainly have a number of people coming out anyway. Maybe if we start planning, I don't know, a September patrol schedule in some precinct, we could say that so, there are so many people on this list and there are so many of them active. After all, not everyone on the list, 1,100 auxiliary policemen are active at a good rate of 200-300, and they participate regularly. These are the people we can trust and rely on. But it's gone, let's say, at some point it's out of line. We expect them to come out in any case, but one day there might be some kind of mental change. When we have calculated that ten people will come out next weekend, but eight of them say that they can't come on holiday, who has some kind of study, who has other responsibilities and who has work to do, what do we do? Therefore, we must have sufficient resources for professional police officers so that we do not fail, even if this voluntary side happens to shrink sharply for some reason. I do not think that this will go away if we sufficiently motivate people to volunteer and allow them to fulfil these obligations, in accordance with their ability and, above all, their ability to assume this responsibility. Then, I guess this volunteer resource doesn't go down, but at the same time we can't rely on them alone. A good example of where we have to go is, in my opinion, Holland. The Netherlands has the best built-up system. On the street, it does not matter whether it is an official or a volunteer who is not a direct official, but is an assistant police officer. The form is the same, the tasks are basically the same, just there is a legal difference that one is an official and the other is not an official. In the end, this means that an official can perform procedural tasks, he will detain a traffic infringer and impose a fine, very simply, but the assistant police officer cannot do so, he cannot tell a person that it will receive a fine of EUR 100 because he exceeded the speed. He/she shall assist in all other activities, assist in the completion of the protocols and, if necessary, assist in traffic supervision and the operation of the traffic police. That's the main difference. But the rest of the system is very well concentrated, it doesn't make much difference. This thing is very well balanced. There are enough volunteers with motivation and opportunities, and there is also sufficient resources for professional police officers.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-08-22_U57	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-08-22_U58	Good manager! Good waitress! Excellent initiative, but there is still a question. The police are getting less and less. Here is the analogy with the rescuers: professional rescuers will be reduced, volunteers will come and the state will favour it. Right now, you're asking for EUR 20,000 for so-called shooting trainings, right? But at the same time, the state doesn't have to contribute more professional policemen. Isn't this a dangerous game? Everything becomes a volunteer. Volunteering is, of course, good, but at the same time, everything takes the same form: uniforms are the same, they don't have to wear this vest yet. In fact, the country can wash its hands, because volunteers will do the job. Is that right in the broadest sense?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-08-22_U59	Thank you, Reverend Asker! I actually answered that question by answering the previous question. It is a two-way highway where we cannot put too much bet or expectation on one side and only rely on them, but it is a two-way matter. We are talking here about a bill that gives the opportunity to those people who already have who would like to bet even more. As far as the money question is concerned, of course, money is always a sweet matter, but I'll fix you up a little bit. The EUR 20000 that we have here is the estimated amount of training and training for police officers and police officers at the Police and Border Guard Board. This is the amount that could go to existing active police officers to organise additional training when we give new rights. For example, a forced stop of a car. A vital example. There are two persons on patrol, one official and the other assistant police officer. A police officer can also drive a police car if he's been trained for alarm, there's no problem at all. But let's imagine there's an officer at the wheel and an auxiliary police officer on the team who has all the rights, who has been trained in firearms and all the things that can be done now, and there's a car that doesn't stop, for example. Its leader is likely to be a criminal drinker. Tracing, the so-called car chase reaches the settlement where the nursery is located, and it is, for example, four o'clock in the afternoon when the children start going home. You already know that in a half a mile, they're gonna reach a settlement where the kids are gonna go across the road nicely, and probably that criminal drunk driver's gonna run over a couple of kids. What are the options that can be done? A deputy policeman sitting next door can't be shot by law because this isn't a direct emergency defense. We don't see a kid in sight right now who's about to get hit by a car. So it's a predictable threat and it doesn't legally qualify as an emergency defense, even though everyone understands with common sense that once you've completed the same weapons training, passed the same exam, and you're on patrol, as good a partner as possible to an officer, you should take the opportunity, if any, to safely eliminate the risk by using a tire to stop this car at any cost. Right now, it's like we're gonna have to put an auxiliary policeman behind the wheel when he's been given an alarm training. Once he's done, he'll drive so the officer can sit next to him and carry out this forced stop by means of a firearm. We are talking about the money we need if these rights are to be increased in order to provide additional training to fulfil these obligations. But let's talk about austerity. This issue of form is one of the sources of savings. At the moment, the PBA has to make separate public procurements for ordering hats, fleeces, vests, jackets, T-shirts that simply say 'help officer'. It doesn't make any sense, it simply follows from the current law, in which one paragraph states that an assistant police officer must wear a yellow safety vest with the letter 'auxiliary police officer'. Although, actually, if you're working at a criminal office or a drug crime unit right now, you're not wearing a yellow vest anywhere, that's unthinkable. Maybe we can save some money. If there is a single procurement, a uniform form will be ordered, then we will save thousands of euros. There's this resource that we can actually win to provide additional training. In the end, it is a victory for all. We are giving more rights and more responsibility, and the state will have more resources. At the same time, I repeat, I have already said this in response to the previous questioner, this cannot be the solution to the problems of internal security and police resources.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-08-22_U60	Toomas Jürgenstein, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-08-22_U61	Good President! Good waitress! A little detour. In one of the few days of this summer, when it rained, an assistant police officer in Saaremaa directed me to blow. This assistant police officer works in the Riigikogu and I admit, I felt very warm all this time in Saaremaa. Good Jack, you have a strong personal experience. What, though, is the main reason young men become auxiliary police officers? What's the main reason? Give me one reason.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-08-22_U62	Thank you, Reverend Asker! If I have to say one word, I think it's a duty or a responsibility. I think this Saaremaa case is a good example. We had a really good joint operation in Saaremaa to support the Saaremaa precinct. This is an overseas area where no one visits the police very much to perform a joint operation, blowers. We really organized a blowing trip there and one blower was a member of the Riigikogu sitting here, and another member of the Riigikogu was a blower. It was a very fun coincidence. But I think, yes, it's a sense of duty that more people should have. Looking the other way around, it's also a very good time off. You can see what happens on the fifth day of each month when it falls on Friday, for example in certain areas of Estonia or Tallinn, when people receive social benefits and pensions. You will see how this automatically increases, for example, the number of cases of close-relationship violence, how it increases the number of people who accidentally get beat up at home, or the number of people who accidentally get caught by the police driving in a criminal drunken manner or who cause an accident. I can't say it's a great experience. It's just a different experience that enriches, I think, the picture of the world. I recommend it to anyone who wants to contribute at all costs. So welcome!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-08-22_U63	Thank you, initiator waitress Jaak Madison! The rapporteur for the Committee on Legal Affairs is Jaanus Kariliid, chairman of the committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-08-22_U64	Ladies and gentlemen, The following important things have been fixed in the minutes of the Committee on Legal Affairs: The session was held on 16 August at 12 noon, and Jaak Madison, Hardi Volmer, Liisa Oviir, Märt Sults, Tarmo Kruusimäe, Toomas Vitsut and Jaanus Karilaid took part in the Legal Affairs Committee. We have invited Raivo Küü, Deputy Chancellor of Internal Security, Order and Migration Policy of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, Veiko Kombusaar, Head of the Department of Law Enforcement and Criminal Policy of the Ministry of the Interior, Eimar Veldre, adviser to the same department, and Jaago Männiste, assistant police officer and special training instructor. The Deputy Chancellor of Internal Security, Order and Migration Policy of the Ministry of Interior was already mentioned and Sirle Loigo, the Chief Order Guard Officer of the Office for Prevention and Crime Procedure, was also present. I'm gonna take a brief look at this discussion. The Ministry of the Interior gave an overview and Jaak Madison introduced the draft. Eimar Veldre, of the Ministry of the Interior, announced that the Ministry of the Interior supports the improvement of the possibilities of involving assistant police officers in public order, while the Ministry does not support the draft provisions which change the auxiliary police system in principle. He explained that an auxiliary police officer is a person who volunteered, during his spare time, participates in police activities on the basis and in accordance with the procedures laid down by law. The question was, " How long is the training of an assistant police officer in the first place,'and the answer was given. They then asked what situation it was necessary to impose a ban on stay. Raivo Küüt explained that a ban on stay may need to be imposed, for example, in order to ensure the safety of the scene. Eimar Veldre explained that if an assistant police officer patrols with a police officer, a stay ban may be imposed, but a police officer is responsible. It was said that the ban on stay is a relatively new institution in law enforcement law and that it would require analysis. The question was whether the damage would be greater if the assistant police officer incorrectly imposed a stay ban in order to preserve the evidence or if he did not impose it. There was an argument as to whether this was a problem in practice or not. There's a difference of opinion. Examples of neighbouring countries were asked. Eimar Veldre, of the Ministry of the Interior, explained that in Germany the voluntary law enforcement organisation has been abolished in part of the Länder because it is considered necessary to develop an independent police structure or to establish a separate municipal police force. In addition, the extreme right had tried to hijack this movement of volunteers. Some were said about Norway, Sweden and the Netherlands. Jaago Männiste, an assistant police officer, who is also a specialist instructor, considered that the current law of the assistant police officer was in the way of time, because the assistant police are not merely acting as a guardian. He also considered that an assistant police officer should be able to defend himself on the same grounds as a police officer. The pineists pointed out that since the relief police uniform and the police uniform are very similar, people's expectations for both of them are the same. The Deputy Secretary-General claimed that the relief police are very closely associated with the police organisation, which means that the assistant police officer carries out police duties along with the police officer. In his view, it is extremely important to give people the opportunity to engage in the most motivating way. There is a need to increase supervision, which requires good regulation and frameworks for involving aid police officers, and it must be clear what tasks they should carry out. Eimar Veldre of the Ministry of the Interior added that it should be taken into account that police work is not just about law enforcement; the police also have, for example, criminal procedural tasks that cannot be delegated to volunteers. This needs to be analysed in the light of a number of aspects. Then the Committee on Legal Affairs made decisions. It was decided to appoint Mr Madison as rapporteur and to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 22 August. It was decided by consensus. It was also decided to close the first reading, to appoint Jaanus Karilaid as rapporteur for the Commission and to propose that the deadline for submitting amendments be 20 September at 16 a.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-08-22_U65	Questions for the waitress. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-08-22_U66	Good manager! Good waitress! I couldn't help but notice that a representative of the Home Office didn't like a lot of things in the bill. I will now specifically ask which of the 18 amendments are not suitable for the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-08-22_U67	Thank you. Well, it's all about the use of special tools, how exactly to involve relief police officers in criminal proceedings, where this border is exactly running. We should look at the whole picture today. The Police and Border Guard Board has over 5,500 employees, 1054 auxiliary police officers. This has been said for quite a long time, for many years, that the Police and Border Guard Board, as a state institution, is too thinly polished. Now it is also a question of how to make use of voluntary energy so that the state does not deliberately begin to delegate its tasks to volunteers here. In any case, there is no pressure from the authorities. However, as volunteers themselves are very active to gain more rights, it is important to make sure that these rights are in line with the rights of the police department as an official institution. I think that, in order to reach a third reading with this draft and adopt the law, we need to work very closely with the Ministry of the Interior to ensure that the law works and is implemented in practice afterwards. Above all, we are talking about extending such rights in a way that does not conflict with real life.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-08-22_U68	Peep Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-08-22_U69	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A good leader of the Commission! Let it be said at the outset that I am not against this draft and I will certainly try to play my part in the procedure so that it becomes ready for adoption. But I could not attend this committee because the notice period was abnormally short. I got a message on Tuesday around 4:00, and I was supposed to be here on Thursday, but there are other things to do. That is why I am asking you, as chairman of the committee, what I should have asked the committee. It is good that a representative of the Ministry of the Interior was present and said his own views. But is there also the position of the Government of the Republic on this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-08-22_U70	Yeah, it's there. I didn't bring it with me right now, but the statement was that the Department of the Interior wanted to sign up for its vision. It was conditional support. This position is also available on Parliament's website, which can be found there. I can e-mail it to you. This position exists, yes, it is conditional support. But with this abnormalness, I think the politician's profession is abnormal. Something like that is often needed to move on here. Participate in it likes, is this pace right or not. However, if at least six members of the Committee on Legal Affairs had not been present, the hearing could not have been held. So it is often political will that determines whether or not things can be done.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-08-22_U71	Peep Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-08-22_U72	Thank you for your previous answer. I would add that this was an extraordinary meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs. How can such an item be extraordinary? That's a perfectly normal point. So I ask you to continue to be more correct here.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-08-22_U73	Well, I'll explain. There was an extraordinary opportunity to proceed faster with this bill because of the change of minister. Everyone welcomes this bill. I saw that the Reform Party made a separate press release in which Kalle Laane also praised this draft to the heavens, and currently a member of the Riigikogu, Peep Aru, also acknowledged it. Why, then, lose valuable time? Let's take advantage of the emergency opportunity and move on to a good thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-08-22_U74	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-08-22_U75	Thank you! Good waitress! Have I misunderstood anything when I rely on the words that if there is no regular meeting, then there is an emergency meeting?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-08-22_U76	Yeah, well, that depends on what kind of connection someone gets with this term 'extraordinary'. I'm also a little surprised at the controversy. If political mathematics makes it possible to do a substantive thing, to hold a parliamentary debate, to put this topic on the agenda of a large hall, and everything works according to political mathematics, then you should actually clap your hands. Not so that the emotions of those who were "numbered down" couldn't stop it from happening. I do not see any political forces today who would say that this bill is somehow negative. Everyone says it gives more security, that it's for people, that there's already over a thousand help officers, that they want to contribute more to society. So why don't we just get somebody's hand up and say yes, on August 16th I had this and this event, it was more important. I think it would be fair to bring it out in public, which was more important than this bill. Then the public can measure and assess that perhaps there really was something extraordinary ahead of those who could not come.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-08-22_U77	No further questions. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Free Party Group, Jüri Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-08-22_U78	Mr President of the sitting! Since our agenda today is not too long or too tight, I will take the opportunity to say a few memorable sentences on this subject. But first of all, Tiit Madison, I'm sorry, Jaak Madison's initiative is sympathetic to me, and it's a good thing he's handling it. In my opinion, this is at least a good example of the fact that, even in an era where, for more than ten years, the drafting of drafts has almost died out in the Riigikogu, or at least very rarely, it is still alive. But that's what the memorable story is. In the autumn of 1992, Mart Laar's first government came to power, and its first Minister of Interior became Lagle Parek, Chairman of the Estonian National Independence Party of my political party at the time. One of his first contacts with the Riigikogu was this. He had a legal adviser at the ministry named Tammeorg (I don't remember his first name), who had drawn up a draft. It was probably drawn up in the previous times of the transitional governments, and the draft was called a draft law that was crowded. Lagle Parek sent this bill to the Riigikogu. I was one of the chairmen of the law enforcement committee at the time, the second was Judge of State Jüri Rätsep, who now died recently. As members of the committee, we were trying to understand what we were going to do with this unfortunate draft, because it was quite certain that the people of Soviet times, in the form it was, did not need the new Republic of Estonia. The crowd was a very strange phenomenon. The Soviet authorities had, in principle, provided for political support functions for suppressing civil unrest and maintaining order at events, but more activities were such that they were patrolling evenings and nights and, among other things, they carried out inspections in shops to see whether sellers were cheating on consideration or prices. You didn't need that. Following a longer joint debate, it was then found that this matter had to be reorganized. Several people contributed to this. I think that the most important part of the completion of the law for this popular policeman or assistant police officer was Viktor Niitsol, a member of the ERSP Group at the time. I know exactly the author of the name 'auxiliary police officer', which was also a member of the ERSP who worked here in the Riigikogu, named Andres Mihkels. He was an advisor to the National Defence Commission. Certainly was very important in Daimar Liiv and many other people were also important. At that time, the police and law enforcement situation in Estonia was awful, to say the least, because the Soviet police had been partly decomposed, partly decomposed already before the VII Riigikogu assembly. This was accompanied by the phenomenon that private security companies had emerged and... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-08-22_U79	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-08-22_U80	Private security companies hired by embassies and foreign companies that had established their branches in Estonia were able to pay salaries of this size, which at the time were completely fairytale, and basically pulled the whole more reasonable frame from the militia, which by then had been renamed police, so that there was nothing much left. In addition, there were two other movements in Estonia. One was an organization called Home Guard initiated by Edgar Savisaar or during his reign, and the other was a self-proclaimed Defence League that didn't tolerate each other, distrust was up to heaven. So this is how it was then, 25 years ago, the concept of an assistant police officer was created and has so far remained this way. I think, in the meantime, its membership was bigger. As the matriculation examination of this law of an assistant police officer, I consider the role of auxiliary police officers in the events of the bronze night. All the disputes that Mr Madison and Mr Karilaid have presented here today are, in fact, exactly the same as they were 25 years ago. So these questions are still on the agenda. I am particularly pleased that this quite original institution created in its time, at least in Estonia's circumstances, has survived. Over the last 15 years, we have had a strong tendency to dismantle all kinds of citizens' own initiatives, so that their share would recede and the power of the civil servants' state would grow. The Auxiliary Police Act could in principle be a good experiential model for bringing about various other possible forms of organisation in other areas of life as well, a model of how citizens can apply their own leisure time and willingness to act even if the state of officials is unable to do what is hoped for or when emergency assistance is needed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-08-22_U81	Thank you. There is no further wish for negotiations. First reading of Bill 631 is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 4 p.m. on 26 September. Thank you. The extraordinary session is closed. Closure of the sitting at 11.21 a.m.
