ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Question Time. Incoming check, please! 29 members of the Riigikogu are currently present. The Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Kaia Iva, Minister of Social Protection and Sven Mikser, Minister of Foreign Affairs, will be attending Question Time. I'll give you one more question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U2	Traditionally, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas will answer first. He's asking for Jürgen Ligi. Please, Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U3	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister! You have ignored all the questions about Estonian-language learning in this hall, you have always started to talk about Estonian-language learning. This is a clear position: you are supporting the Russians to be segregated and your electorate to live on its own and not to leak. But now your party is also talking about cultural autonomy. That's what you found right away a warm word for. You said that you supported this and Estonian laws. I don't know how much you understood what you're talking about, but it was a very supportive statement that you made. Tell me if it is your fundamental choice and policy that the Russians must live separately, think differently, work elsewhere and communicate only with each other.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U4	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! A good questioner, Mr Jürgen Ligi, I think you always have excellent questions and with the political rhetoric you are capable of, I do not dare to compete. You can put heaven and earth together in your question and then turn it 180 degrees the other way around. I'll come to the segregation first. I sincerely believe that we need to make an effort to the members of the Riigikogu, as well as members of the government, all Estonian citizens, in order that all 1.3 million people living in Estonia feel here as our people. We must pay attention to this regard regardless of their gender or nationality or age or political conviction. That is what our constitution, our constitution, says. Now, cultural autonomy. Really, I respect the law or the laws you asked about. § 50 of Chapter II "Fundamental rights, freedoms and obligations' of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia gives minorities the right to establish self-government institutions in the interests of national culture in accordance with the conditions and procedures laid down in the Act on Cultural Independence of National Minorities. If a law on the cultural autonomy of a national minority, adopted by the Riigikogu in 1993, provides, for example, in § 2 (2), for the possibility that the cultural self-governments of a national minority may be formed by German, Russian, Swedish and Jewish persons and those of minorities with a number of more than 3000. So I really support Estonian laws.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U5	Jürgen Ligi, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U6	Thank you. After all, your interest is understandable, but the interest of the Estonian state has always been that cultural autonomy applies to small fragments of the people and that it does not create more division of society. You call what I'm saying political rhetoric. The reality is that your voters will die sooner, they will be less educated, they will have worse jobs and they will live in worse conditions. This is all produced by a fragmented, divorced education system and a broken social network. This is not political rhetoric; this is the main summary of the Human Development Report. Tell us, however, whether you will do anything to unite this society, so that the EKRE can no longer say that the Russians are betraying the Estonian state, and that we really do not see such different conditions of success in the case of two nations.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U7	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U8	Thank you. I do something about it every day. And I will also take action in the next two minutes, in order not to separate Estonia, to push our people into different corners, as you would like, but to really add them, as you said at least at the end of your own rhetorical era, that is also a big deal. When talking about cultural autonomy, your party's substantive leader, Kristen Michal, immediately said that this means that Ida-Virumaa will be transferred to the Russian Federation. You know very well that cultural autonomy is not linked to any territorial part of Estonia. This has not been the case for Swedish or Ingerisomians. I understand that you have always wanted to express yourself in Estonian society as the person who knows Estonia's fiscal policy best. Now you're gonna make another jump and start talking about whose voters die sooner and whose voters live longer. That's pretty hideous to be honest with you. I believe everyone has a destiny that determines how long he's been given days, hours, and years to live here. Don't you make that decision. It is true that I dare say this with absolute conviction that it is important for the current government and the coalition to be able to live as well as possible in all places in Estonia. The goal is that the people who live here, whether in Saaremaa or at Peipsi, whether in Põlva or in Tallinn, would feel good about putting their children in school and kindergarten, so that they can have jobs and mobility. The state must also take certain steps to build infrastructure, including the last mile.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U9	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U10	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good Prime Minister! Based on Jürgen Ligi's question, I would like to ask whether you can tell me how many years of failure in language policy and cultural autonomy the current government must correct errors.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U11	Mr President of the Riigikogu, since the question was not well heard, can I ask the second half of this question to be repeated?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U12	Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U13	The question was this: how many years of reform party failure on cultural autonomy and language issues must the current government correct errors?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U14	Thank you. The current government, as you know, will work in accordance with our laws and procedures until the next regular elections, which will be on 3 March 2019. The highest authority will then assess which parties are in the next Riigikogu and who form the coalition, or government. At least in my work, I have sensed and considered it important that I do not want to point a finger that has not been done in the last 17 years or which could have been done better. After all, these are the people of Estonia who live here. These are the people who go to kindergarten and school who, after graduating, want to go to a vocational school or university and then go to the labour market. I think it is the responsibility of the Estonian state and the task of giving them every opportunity in these competitive conditions to have good language skills and to compete well on the labour market. And the sentence that all 1.3 million are our people was not a sentence that was said to be a mouthpiece. We take defence, which we talk about very much and rightly talk about. I think that defending the Estonian state begins with how strong our society is, how strong the sense of every individual in this society is, how strong our patriotism, the love of the fatherland is. Both the Riigikogu and the government must do their utmost to contribute to this. How long will it take to correct certain mistakes? Some mistakes can be repaired quickly. I recall that Mr Aivar Sõerdi and I have been discussing a lot of economic issues here. He's always been concerned about the economic environment. We are taking VAT on accommodation: 14% had been included in the legislation, but it was changed in a few weeks to keep VAT on 9%. So it depends on how the problem is handled.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U15	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U16	The next question is for Foreign Minister Sven Mikser, asking Henn Põlluaas. Please, Henn Põllamaas!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U17	Thank you. 10-11. On 31 December, a UN conference will be held in Morocco, where a global agreement on safe, orderly and legal migration will be signed, with a very crazy title. The main and permanent assumption of this document is that migration is good and inevitable, although the European immigration crisis has clearly proved the opposite, and the agreement imposes a number of obligations on countries. Since this is an extremely irresponsible agreement, which clearly inspires dozens or even hundreds of millions of people to migrate to well-off countries, a number of countries have announced that they will not sign it. This agreement is contrary to their national interests and...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U18	Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U19	... their sovereignty. Question: does Estonia intend to sign it, knowing the negative consequences? And if he does, how do you explain such a direct violation of Estonian interests and sovereignty?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U20	Thank you, good questioner! Glad you could make it to the hearing. It is certainly extremely reasonable to stay within the limits of the truth by exchanging ideas and asking questions in the Riigikogu Hall. It is true that there will be a ceremony in Marrakech, Morocco, which will actually sign two documents: one is a global framework for migration and the other is a global framework for refugees. Both are circum two years long prepared and discussed documents. As always with UN General Assembly documents, the Global Migration Framework is legally non-binding and guarantees countries a fully sovereign right to design and implement national migration policies, as well as to protect their borders. So the assumption in your question is untrue, as is the question of how this document assesses migration. Migration is probably inevitable, as you said, but there are certainly positive and negative aspects to migration. In fact, this draft coordinated migration agreement deals with 22 areas, including, in addition to addressing root causes and drivers of migration, for example, reducing irregular migration and return and readmission, preventing and preventing trafficking in human beings and smuggling, border management and border protection. So this is a very multifaceted document on migration in its complexity. Indeed, Estonia has also been involved in the drafting of both documents and...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U21	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U22	Our president also intends to attend the ceremony in Marrakech. So Estonia really, by accepting their...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U23	Once again, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U24	... agreements with objectives, also joins these agreements.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U25	Now, thank you even more. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U26	The next question is asked by Krista Aru, and this is Kaia Ivale, Minister for Social Protection. Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U27	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister! On 30 November last year, a major research, mapping and analysis of the actual situation of maintenance loads, as well as all these problems, ended. The problems were mapped out and the conclusions that were made were very competent. My first question is whether, now, almost a year later, there are some standards that these services should meet in local governments. One of the problems highlighted was that the level of services and assistance varies greatly between local authorities. Are these standards and guidelines ready now?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U28	Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Thanks to the questioner! Indeed, the question is very relevant and very important. We looked at the work of the task force last year and took two perspectives on this work as a basis for further planning. One is what we can do quickly, and the other is what means a longer-term restructuring, and it is probably not possible to come from the very beginning. What has changed since this year? We have confirmed the initial measures to reduce the maintenance load. These include, for example, a new service, which, from the beginning of this year, is applied to severely and deeply disabled persons, to persons with special psychological needs, to maintain an interval, to provide day care. The second service, which has taken effect since this summer, is the provision of additional holidays for the carer, which you also dealt with here, and which has gained the power of law. There is also a project for coordination of care, which brings people with a more complex need for help to the social and health side and helps them more quickly to the service. In addition, the agreement was signed in August and Estonia's best forces are ready to place their own contribution there. During the mapping process, it became clear that this is an important area where Estonia has not yet done a great deal, and very little has been done. At the end of the year there will also be an application round where it is possible to apply for money to create these places. But now the service standards. First of all, in order to assess the role of the family, to what extent the financial share should also be, for example, in the case of maintenance loads and maintenance obligations, a specific guide was prepared last year, which we will also introduce to local authorities. And now, in the autumn, there is a training evoor for local governments, service providers and professionals, where these guidelines are also introduced.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U29	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U30	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Madam Minister, for your answer. I'm gonna keep asking from here. People with severe and deep disabilities often need help and support, especially if they want to cope with their own lives, and if they want to work and get to work fully or partially. The local government must then provide financial support either to the professional guardian or simply to the sponsor. Is it possible and how much has been done to ensure that the local government's support for hiring its guardian is relatively similar across Estonia? We know that there is one price here in Tallinn, but perhaps there is another price in the municipality of Otepää, and the missing part of it must be covered by the person himself. Has this problem been dealt with?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U31	Thank you. I would like to take this opportunity to say, in addition to the previous answer, that you have just asked about these instructions that, yes, quality instructions have been prepared by the Social Insurance Board. They've been introduced, but I'm sure there's a long way to go. But you have now specifically asked about severely and deeply disabled persons. In the Social Welfare Act, there are different ways in which a person can be assisted. Some of them don't expect disability, some of them do. I bring out three: one is a personal assistant, one is a guardian and one is a sponsor. So it's actually possible to choose the most appropriate option among them. Their remuneration practices are also different today. Since hiring a personal assistant is one of those services that are also supported by ESF projects, these fees do not even have such a big problem in local authorities. Although yes, it can be said that the fees are a little low: it is difficult to find people on the road. Rather, we have problems with carer support, which really differs drastically in local governments. These are slightly different services. In the case of care, the essential component of care is, in the case of personal assistance, indeed what you described. For example, a person with reduced mobility and vision needs basically new eyes and new hands to help him in these activities. I think that the quality of local government services and the choice and provision of the best methods of assistance are a key issue at all. That is why the Social Insurance Board is planning to set up mobile units for its areas next year, which would help the local government in more complex cases, how to provide assistance in this case, as well as in the organisation of services. We have also strengthened supervision this year and we will certainly take a long step forward with the Social Insurance Board next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U32	Thank you. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U33	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! Plans are great in themselves, but what about resources? How much resources have you planned for 2019 to reduce the maintenance burden? And if possible, talk about a four-year perspective when you think about the RES. How much has been separated? I am interested in this locality, to which Krista Aru referred here too, the so-called local compensatory fund. After all, accessibility is likely to vary from region to region, competence is different, needs are different, and local governments could ideally have a compensation fund. Could it exist, and how big could it be?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U34	Thank you. Indeed, with a financial resource, these services receive money from several places. Some are public services. And with regard to public services, I can now say that I think we have taken a qualitatively whole new step. We are going to meet the next year in such a way that we are no longer patching up holes with one-off, one-year grants, but in the country's budgetary strategy we have some fixed funding, basic funding, for rehabilitation, aid and special care. Next, local authorities: some of the money goes there specifically, it is for specific programmes. There is also a financial resource to develop services in local governments. This year, for example, there will be a new call for proposals for the adaptation of homes. There will certainly also be a new call for applications for general social services. Speaking of the revenue base, at the end of this year, in November, I will go to the government with proposals to reduce the long-term maintenance burden. These are already more specific proposals, including these steps and proposals on how to start analysing the income base, what the differences should be according to the structure of the local government population and how to take this income base into account. As far as the next few years are concerned, as I said, we also have the first activities planned for four years. 16.4 million extra money is planned for these activities, which I mentioned in reply to the first question here. So there are indeed a number of measures here. One is that public services have normal funding, there would be no holes. The second is the income base of local governments, which we are certainly dealing with. There are also concrete measures to develop and create more services and create new places.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U35	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U36	Next to the members of the government, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas will ask Peeter Ernits. Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U37	Good President and Prime Minister! In the basic principles of the government union, the sentence is that our main challenge is to solve population problems. Agreed. We have recently heard that some wealthy Estonians have started renting foreign women's uteruss and buying their own children. My question is whether, on the basis of the basic principle of this government union, which is noble in every way, other Estonians should learn from it and start using commercial surrogates. This is permitted by a few countries, such as India, Russia and Thailand, as well as by a few states of the United States.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U38	Thank you, dear Peeter Ernits. It's nice to have a debate with you here. I think that this demographic aspect, that Estonia's population cannot be reduced, is the right principle. This is at least the most important narrative for me for the next hundred years, so that we can see that Estonia's population is rising and that young people, like now on this balcony, are still more and more. You yourself have signed this good document. So I am pleased that you can now keep this issue of the population up in your new political family. I understand that this issue must be largely motivated by your social media handling. I find it totally inappropriate for people to talk about flying heads in society at one point and for them to talk about hanging someone in society at another. Unfortunately, this debate has at least brought along this hanging expression, and that is, as I said, totally, totally inappropriate. Now what you asked about is essentially a very sensitive question where we must, in any case, be able to hold a balanced, argumentated and respectful debate in society. I do not think that this should be a political campaign issue. On the contrary, I think that this must not be and it cannot be a political campaign issue. Replacement motherhood is certainly a matter of family life, medicine and ethics, as well as a legal issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U39	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U40	Thank you. First of all, thank you for supporting and protecting my daughter, who was actually allowed to hang. But it's a matter of commercial surrogates. In Estonia, all forms of surrogateism are known to be banned, although many women are likely to need it for medical reasons, and so is elsewhere in Europe. But my question was, do you think that Estonia could be guided by California and legitimized by commercial surrogateism?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U41	Thank you. I answered the first question of how this debate should be held in Estonian society. When we talk about population growth and that families want children or children, we know that nearly 20% of Estonian families have problems having children for one, another or third reason. As I said, the only way to have these debates outside the political campaign is to keep them respectful, balanced and well-founded. So I think that saying from here on the chair of the Riigikogu government that we are doing one way or the other without really having in-depth debates would be whacking. This isn't right.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U42	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U43	Thank you. You said it was an ethical issue. In this regard, do you really consider it ethical for a mother to sell her child to total strangers for money? I mean, it's human trafficking, no matter how old that kid is. All the more so, no one asked this child if he would like to grow up in a foreign family in the future, especially in a gay family. Do you really think human trafficking and trafficking are ethical?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U44	Thank you. What I know is that once these debates have been held, it is not only about selling, but also about whether this could not be altruistic activity. But I repeat, I think there are a lot of questions that are affected by replacement motherhood. You brought out the ethical side. I said it was a family and medical issue; it is a legal issue, but certainly an ethical one.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U45	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U46	The next speaker is Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, asking for Taavi in Kõiva. Please, Javier Clothes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U47	Thank you, President-in-Office. Prime Minister! There are, of course, a great deal of tax policy issues that we could ask you about. I am focusing today on the fact that in just one year the payment of envelope wages in Estonia has increased more than one and a half times from 8 to 13 percentage points. It's something that's at least a trend-breaking, if not a disaster. It is feared that this is a direct consequence of tax policy. My question is very simple. Yesterday, the representative of entrepreneurs in this very chair said that there were errors in tax policy. Do you realize that this indicator of the extremely steep rise in envelope wages is one of those things that would not have been if you hadn't gone very fast to change tax policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U48	Thank you. It is true, of course, that these tax policy mistakes have had to be seriously improved here over the last few years. That, of course, is true. Let's just take one of the first questioners. Your co-worker asked how quickly the problems caused by the various time horizons could be solved. His claim, for example, was 17 years. I don't know exactly where he took it. I said that I remember, for example, in 2016, it was a great desire and a urge to add 5% of VAT to accommodation establishments, to increase it to 14%. It was cut down in a few weeks and this VAT will be 9% from 2017. I remember, for example, the same excise duty on diesel, which was to rise from 1 January 2018, from these long ripples. We made that decision. Now, speaking of envelope wages and tax holes, I fully agree with what you said, Mr Taavi Kõivas. It's bad when this indicator rises. You, of course, politically and skilfully linked it again to the current government coalition. However, unlike the Reform Party's claim that workers are motivated to get a share of the salary in the envelope, the study shows that there has been an increase in the number of workers who are not in favour of the envelope wage. At yesterday's fiscal debate, to which you referred, the Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry of Finance, Dmitri Egorov, said that, at a time when there is a great deal of construction and a high demand for labour, there will be an increase in the payment of the envelope wage. The Tax Administration has a number of options to deal with this: more controllers are being carried out and employees are being asked for salary information in public procurement. In addition, banks will use tax authorities' data in loan decisions next year. So it's really being dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U49	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U50	Thank you. For ten years Circa has been on a downward trend in the payment of envelope wages in Estonia and now, at the same time as you have made very big changes to the current simple and understandable tax system, it has more than one-and-a-half times in one year. This is not just a one-and-a-half. This money, which is not collected as taxes, would allow all Estonian pensions to be increased by an average of 20 euros in one moment. This would allow all municipalities to have exactly a 5% higher budget. This would allow an additional EUR 50 million to be allocated to the sickness fund, which could, for example, reduce treatment queues. This is the money that is currently missing in the state budget because the payment of envelope wages has increased as much as the statistics show. Do you feel any guilt in this?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U51	That's what I realized. A lot of people still like to finger the guy, the one who's guilty. A lot of people are asking who's responsible for this money laundering affair at Danske Bank. Is Jürgen Ligi guilty? Is it Javier's outfit? So he was the Prime Minister, and Ligi was the Minister of Finance. I've said I'm not pointing my finger at anyone. I'm not pointing my finger at anybody. We need a solution so that such money laundering will no longer exist in the future. This is still a very serious damage to the reputation that Estonian society has suffered as a result of the Danske case. Now you want to know who's guilty again. I say that I am working on this, Mr. Clothes, to reduce this tax hole and the payment of envelope salaries. I'm working for it, and the whole government is working for it. I don't know if you're happy that this percentage has increased, I'm not. You said that this would provide an opportunity to fund local authorities and the health insurance fund. Then why didn't you do it when you were in power? Why were these municipalities squealing? In three years, the current government has put 90 million in addition and over 200 million in addition to the health insurance fund in four years, in order to reduce the number of treatments. Yes, according to the Institute of Economics, the share of the recipients of the envelope was indeed increased to 13% in 2017 (blood 8% in 2016), but the amount paid decreased. I would point out that fewer and fewer are those who receive all the income in the form of an envelope salary. The government decided to reduce the tax burden on labour by 2018, which I hope will also help to alleviate wage pressures. After all, a lot of entrepreneurs have given positive feedback on the same thing you mentioned. I mean that the tax-free minimum has risen to EUR 500 instead of raising it by EUR 10 or 15.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U52	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U53	Thank you, good Chairman. Good Prime Minister! The labour problem will certainly be one of the fastest growing problems in our society in the coming years, even if the country is going to make huge investments at the same time. And the amount of social tax on this issue, which would motivate our own entrepreneurs more to hire our own people, is a crucial issue. What have been the debates on the government union, the discussions on the future of social tax? Here, cosmetic corrections or reductions are unlikely to produce any major effect. What other methods have you considered in order to solve our labour problem by means of tax policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U54	Thank you. There have been some radical changes recently. It has been said that we are giving up social tax at all, that 33% of which is 13% for health insurance and 20% for pensions. Well, it's kind of a radical approach. The truth is that if we look at incomes, it can be said that the order of magnitude is: 600000 Estonian residents with income pay social tax and the circa 100000 are really those who do not pay social tax and withdraw their income as dividends, for example. I do not agree with this radical approach, because it means (a) either the end of the solidarity health care system and putting it under attack on how pensions will be paid in the future, (b) or some other very big tax policy change. After all, the previous speaker, Mr Rõivas, knows this, the chairman of his party has said in an interview that the party wishes to abolish social tax. Although I am not the lawyer of the Reform Party, we have to ask whether the Reform Party has really chosen a different path from the time of Siim Kallas at the time, that instead of reducing income tax, it is now intended to increase it to either 40% or 50%. Where's that cover coming from? So the current government has not dealt with such an approach to break radically, or what did you say? A solidarity-based healthcare system. I look at you and I have to admit that even if you were to ask for it as a member of the Riigikogu, I am afraid that this government does not have the strength to break up the solidarity health care system, and there is no such desire.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U55	One additional question is provided for. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U56	Ms Kaia Iva, Minister for Social Protection, asks Raivo Põldaru. Please, Raivo Põldaru!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U57	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The law has imposed an obligation on local authorities to provide social services. The Ministry plans to spend enough money next year to control them in order to improve and improve the quality of social services in local governments. What, then, does the Ministry complain to these municipalities that more serious control of their activities is now needed? And how do you plan to use this 1.3 million? How's this thing going to work? What's the money going to do?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U58	Thank you for this extremely important question. There was perhaps also the question of where we came from to know that it needs to be increased by control or counseling. I think we've all experienced it, and we've all seen it. Apart from the individual cases that have even been echoed in the media, which may be individual cases, we also have much more systematic information about what is happening in local governments and how different they are today. On one of the first points on the agenda, colleagues had a question about the work of the task force on reducing the workload of maintenance there too, after all, this disunity came out nicely. The Chancellor of Justice has carried out inspections and concluded on this. Similarly, we can now look very closely at the activities of local governments, as this year the Social Insurance Board has the competence to control, monitor and advise the social services of local governments. Our aim, of course, is not to punish, to control in this way. Our aim is to reach out to the task of consulting so far that we think very precisely of the work that is being done for people in local governments: firstly, in assessing the need for help and secondly, in providing appropriate assistance. At the same time, care must be taken to ensure that a person does not have to pay excessively, that the service is affordable and affordable for his or her family. We are definitely going to do local government counselling in cooperation with them: prepare further guidelines, which have been asked about here, and share best practices. We know, of course, that there are no problems in all municipalities, and that everything is very well. And there will also be direct supervision. In addition, increasing the analytical capacity of this money has been, we dare say, too little in the social sphere so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U59	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good Minister, you also plan to raise at least some of the salaries of social workers and people providing services as a pretty normal percentage. But doesn't the other part, who isn't included in this money, feel touched? Or do all those providing social services actually get a nice raise, as this percentage suggests?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U61	Thank you. Your question really has a pretty big point, because social workers work in different spheres: they can be on the state's payroll, they can be on the local government's payroll, they can be on the private sector's payroll. As a result, salary factors are also different. This specific amount of money, which we have planned for the salary increase for social workers next year, concerns those who are the guarantors of public services. This is where rehabilitation services are provided, with a higher level of remuneration for which you can raise your salary, special care services for people with mental disorders, replacement care and some services provided at Astangu. So with these increases in prices, we can ensure that the wage increase that we have planned today is at least 12% on average. But I hope higher wage increases are possible. For example, in the case of rehabilitation services, we want to reach the point where a doctor, nurse and logo beet receive the same salary as they receive in the medical system when providing social rehabilitation services. We currently have this problem that there have been wage differences, which is why there have also been obstacles to the provision of services. However, as regards, for example, social workers in local government or general care, it is true that their salary increase must come specifically from the service providers involved.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U62	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U63	Foreign Minister Sven Mikser answers, asks Ain Lutsepp. Please, Ain Lutsepp!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U64	Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, Estonia is applying for non-permanent membership of the UN Security Council for the period from 2020 to 2021. Our aim is to highlight the views of small countries on security issues and to contribute to stability and security. Romania is competing with us, which I think has been a member four times already. The question is: what are our chances of becoming a non-permanent member of the Security Council? What is the feedback from the negotiations and meetings? What's the status quo?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U65	Thank you. That is an exceptionally good question. The non-permanent members of the UN Security Council shall be elected from regional groups and shall be elected by the entire membership of the General Assembly. There are 193 UN Member States today, and at least two thirds of the voting rounds need to be supported by the Member States, i.e. 129 countries need to support us so that we are elected. The work has been done since Estonia submitted its candidacy in 2005. Of course, now that these elections are taking place in June next year, this campaign work has intensified. I thank the members of the Riigikogu who have been actively involved in this. The patrons of this event are the President of the Republic and, of course, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In particular, our own campaign team as a whole has, on the one hand, been constantly monitoring, monitoring and mapping the situation, on the other hand, working to ensure that we really reach as many of these 193 countries as possible. For most of them, we have a contact and we have asked for their support. The feedback has been very different, but today we have very high hopes that we will succeed in our candidacy. Of course, the strongest support with'mutual notes' is overconfirmed, especially if we too are able to provide support for some candidacy of the country concerned, be it the Security Council or any other function or position of the UN. However, there is certainly no way we can hang our hands or loosen our feet until the finish line is reached. We have had a very close exchange of experiences with Lithuania and Sweden, but also with Finland, for example, whose last nomination to the Security Council proved unsuccessful, despite the fact that they met the election day with high hopes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U66	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U67	So let's hope for the best and work with full steam for it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U68	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U69	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, On the website of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I checked that there are 194 countries in the United Nations. I don't know, maybe I'm wrong. But the question is: what are the costs of the campaign? It has been a long-term, long-lasting and consistent thing. How much more do you need to bet? What is the real cost?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U70	Thank you. There is a capital where there is no campaign to receive Estonia's support. This is Tallinn. Everywhere else, of course, we carry out our campaign activities very actively and intensively, with the exception of some countries that are not acceptable to us for certain political reasons, but there are really very, very few of them. And the campaign costs are included in the budget. It is clear that if this campaign is successful, the really significant costs will still be associated with these two years if we are a non-permanent member of the Security Council. When preparing our budget strategy in spring, we also booked additional resources in the so-called strategic reserve of the budget. I dare say that Estonia has not set itself the goal of making a very monetary campaign. If our campaign turns out to be a success, it is primarily because of our expertise, our activities so far within the UN, whether it be the area of climate change, the issue of women's and children's rights, or also because of our experience in the IT field. So success depends first and foremost on our real strengths and activities, not that we are trying to spread money or gifts over some decision-makers, this is not part of Estonia's campaign strategy or tactics.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U71	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When I was discussing this question, I had such an interest in it. Even on Eurovision, we know that our neighbours do not always give us so-called nice voices or normal points. I'm asking if there's any information on our neighbors north, south and east. How has the work been with them, and what voices can be expected there?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U73	Thank you. As I said earlier, the strongest are certainly those statements of support which have been confirmed by the exchange of mutual notes. I can say that we enjoy very, very strong support in our geographical neighbourhood. Of course, as our competitor is also a Member State of the European Union and NATO, they have their own agreements with the countries of the European Union, mainly in their immediate vicinity. Of course, neither we nor our competitors have a one hundred percent overview of each other's campaign status, no one hastens to open these cards so openly, but we do know something about it. As has been said, we enjoy very, very strong support in our geographical neighbourhood, the northern Baltic district. One exception, whose voting behaviour we certainly cannot predict, is our eastern neighbour. However, it is also common practice that five permanent veto Member States do not make public their support to one candidate or another in any regional group. The Security Council shall consist of five permanent and ten periodic non-permanent members. If we didn't assess our chances of being strong and good, we wouldn't be doing this campaign work today, either in our Ministry of Foreign Affairs, or probably in the Riigikogu or probably in the President of the Republic and his office. But, as I said, you can't rest on laurels. We still have to make an effort, despite the fact that we value our position and position as strong and good and, of course, we consider ourselves a dignified candidate who has the essential quality to bring to the Security Council's table. So we're gonna make it to the end.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U74	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U75	Answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, asks Enn Meri. Please, Enn Meri!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! We used to talk about taxes here, specifically labour taxes. Many of our entrepreneurs feel that labour taxes are too high in Estonia and we would like to reduce them. But reduction also means that they need to be replaced somehow. I would like to ask your point of view. I would point out, for example, that one could reduce labour taxes from 33% to 30% and introduce an equity tax as a substitute. This could be in the order of 0,75% of the equity capital of Estonian companies. Equity is an asset minus debt. Would you be in favour of this kind of proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U77	Thank you. If you don't mind, I'm gonna make a little introduction to taxes first. A total of EUR 4.77 billion was collected by the central government in eight months, which is 10.4% more than in eight months of 2017. And this year's revenue for eight months was 60 million more than planned in the 2018 budget and 2 million more than expected in the summer forecast. August's tax revenue also exceeded expectations. I now come to your question of labour taxes. It is no secret that many entrepreneurs often talk about not losing social tax, but about the ceiling for social tax. On the side of the trade unions, there has also been talk about the floor of social tax. It seems to me that employers agree in principle with this approach. Could a reduction in social tax and the emergence of another tax be a debate issue? I think it could basically be a debate. Could this be the liver you proposed? Theoretically, it could then be repeated with higher income taxes, which, as can be indirectly deduced, have been proposed by the Reform Party in the range of 40 to 50%. But it has also been said that if we had, for example, levels of income tax, it would be possible to reduce social tax. Some have also come up with real estate tax. So I think these debates could be held.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll ask you the same question, but I'll ask you a little different. If we are talking about compensating for the reduction in labour taxes, for example, with a commercial property tax, how do you look at such a thing?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U79	Enn Meri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U80	Mr Meri, you understand that if you say anything here, you, as a member of the Riigikogu, bear the word very much, and if the Prime Minister says something, it will carry a little. So if we say we're going to do this one way or another, it's going to be a principle right now. Yesterday, a patriotic member of my party, who really loves Estonia and the people of Estonia very much and wants to protect Estonia at all costs, also said one of his thoughts. It was immediately said that this was the big idea of the Centre Party. There must be ideas before the Riigikogu elections. We were talking about the eastern border and how to build it. The right thing is that, of course, it must be built properly and also in high-tech terms. I now come to your question, which was about the reduction of social tax. I understand you were talking about taxing a legal person's real estate. This automatically means that we are going very hard to tax business and questions arise. So are we taxing the surface, for example? I'm looking at Mr. Urmas Kruus here, who always hurts his heart for agriculture, for the countryside. I can't imagine what he'd say about that. I guess I'll answer the same as at the end of the last question. I think that the tax debate must be one of the ongoing debates at the end of this Riigikogu and at the beginning of the next XIV Riigikogu. This is actually the right debate, it is to be held, not to confront nations here. On the contrary, we need to talk about the economy. So if you also come along with the economic debate, the debate on fiscal policy, I am certainly prepared and welcome it on behalf of my party.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U81	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U82	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! This statement, as if someone in the Reform Party was talking about a plan to raise income tax, is certainly absurd just nothing like that. Moreover, the Reform Party is precisely the one who has been behind the reduction from 26% to 20%. Secondly, every euro that goes into envelope wages means that the state has no taxes. And if the payment of envelope wages has increased from 8% to 13%, five percentage points of both social tax and income tax will be lost by using an ax. This is a huge loss for the taxpayer. Are you willing to admit that the creation of tax losses at the end of 2016 and at the beginning of 2017 was actually a mistake?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U83	Thank you. They always say repetition is the mother of wisdom. So let's go over these questions again. But before I get to them: I honestly said that this idea of losing your social tax has two alternatives. One is that you raise some other taxes, such as income tax. The other alternative is that you do not make any tax. Of course, your slogan may be that we are losing social tax, that's all. Nobody forbids it. Except I don't think your constituents like that. And in that case, I am willing to stand up for the voters of the Reform Party in order to maintain their solidarity with the health care system and the payment of pensions. I don't think that's a good idea. So we can say that we are also losing income tax, we are losing excise duties. There's got to be something more you can understand. You know very well that if more than 3 billion are not collected in the state budget, then the question arises as to what we will do. So you could say, but then you always have to say the second half of the sentence. That's the problem and the point. When you were talking about 2016, you said 'tax loss'. I think I heard wrong. I thought you said 'these changes to improve this tax policy'. But when you said 'tax loss' about it, I say that improvements really had to be done. Let's just take the low, middle earners. We did not agree to raise the tax-free minimum by 10 euros again. It is now EUR 500 and many people will win EUR 64 every month. Take, for example, the excise duty on this same diesel. At the beginning of this year, the excise duty on diesel would also have increased. Luckily, he didn't. Take, for example, the VAT on accommodation, which I have already talked about. Think about it if it had gone up to 14%. I think it would have been devastating for the tourism sector. So many things really got changed at the end of 2016 and I think that was the right direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U84	Thank you, Prime Minister. Thank you, ministers. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U85	Hello, everyone who hasn't seen yet! Honourable Riigikogu! Wednesday session of the fourth working week of the VIIIth session. If anyone wants to make inquiries or draft laws at this session, now is the time. Nobody wants to. Incoming check, please! 71 members of the Riigikogu are currently present at the plenary session.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U86	On today's agenda so much as to explain that, as we know, we missed the first reading of the draft law amending the law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the government and other laws. And it was left to the point where the Minister of Finance answered questions from members of the Riigikogu. Aivar Sõerd was a member of the Riigikogu in the order of the questioners. Today, Minister of Finance Toomas Tõniste will replace Urmas Reinsalu. Please answer questions from members of the Riigikogu, Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu, representative of the initiator of Bill 699! Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U87	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, My question is addressed to the Minister of Finance, I do not know if you can answer, but since you discussed this topic in the government, I think you are aware. I ask that the abolition of the increase in alcohol duty also has a national budget effect: EUR 26 million. What kind of measures did you take to cover this up? As we know, the government has given a victorious message that the budget has been drawn on paper. This step was also to be covered. What measures did you use to cover this? Can You Answer? Of course, I would have liked to have seen the Minister of Finance answer that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U88	Thank you, Honourable Asker. I read this bill this day and I can say it's a good law. It cancels tax increases, it lowers the payment in Estonia, we are moving in the right direction. Now, the very right question: apart from the planned and legally stipulated increase in alcohol duty, where will the source come from? Do we have a guarantee that the budget is in no way merely written down or in a structural balance drawn on paper, but is it really so? I can give clear assurances here that this is the case, in fulfilling the duties of the Minister of Finance. This is not just the balance drawn on paper, but it is actually the case when, compared to the forecast, the EUR 26 million that had to come from raising excise duties on alcohol is excluded. The budget is a complex procedure, and a number of specific measures are planned for the next year to cover additional costs, not just on paper, such as clarifying the costs of the work capacity reform, delaying investment, specifying the costs to be carried forward to the next year, specifying non-tax revenue forecasts, including revenue related to CO2 quotas, dividends and the sale of assets.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U89	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U90	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! I am concerned by the observation by the Estonian Gaasing Association that the draft provides for a rate of 13% of gas consumption intensity. According to them, our gas excise duty is exceptionally high, having a negative impact on Estonia's overall competitiveness and the achievement of environmental objectives, and they propose that this rate should be 3% instead. The government has, as we have discussed, that we cannot accept this, because then we will not be able to get the money we need - 1.2 million. Is it really just the government's goal to get money into the budget, even though setting this rate will make our business environment worse?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U91	Thank you. I think there are different interests involved, different considerations. The ideal goal for gas producers would certainly be for the state to pay more money for gas consumption. It would then be very favourable compared to other types of heating. Now, environmental interests, the interests of the state's competitiveness and, let's say, the interests of Estonian industrial companies must be internationally capable of balance. It is not the intention of this draft to increase excise duties on gas on the contrary. The purpose of this draft is to reduce excise duties on gas for companies with intensive gas consumption, which is specifically defined for the group. Several other Member States of the European Union have also done so. There is now a clear situation where Estonian industrial companies are at a disadvantage compared to their competitors in neighbouring countries. The Government, when presenting this draft, is convinced that it will add an international competitive advantage to companies operating in the energy-intensive sector and consuming a lot of gas. We also believe that this will definitely encourage the expansion plans of industrial companies operating in Estonia, which have been suppressed by high energy prices in the past. Perhaps this will help Estonia turn potential industrial investments into a destination country. Now the question of where to put the border. The government has considered that the share of gas consumed should be at least 13% compared to the added value created. Either way, this boundary is estimated. The government has chosen a single boundary and it is certainly the legitimate place in the legislative debate to discuss whether this chosen boundary is fit for purpose in order to achieve the objective that the government wants: that Estonia is a more competitive country in attracting energy-intensive industrial investments and that companies that develop energy-intensive industries can operate here.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U92	Enn Meri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U93	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. There's gonna be a bit of a weird situation here. 17% is the cost limit for gas burning companies, but if you look at large electricity consumers, for example, their limit is much lower. If I remember correctly, it's like 5% or something. Where's your logic? Why does this cost limit for gas consumers have to be so high?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U94	Thank you. In general, it is clear that when it comes to the taxation of fuels, the use of energy sources, the general government's direction is that energy carriers should be taxed on an equal footing, on the basis of their use and their energy content. As I said, in the interests of the international competitiveness of the Estonian industry, it has been considered reasonable to provide this distinction for gas. In all of these differences, there is no point in denying this. It is a budgetary price in the form of less-receiving excise revenue. However, the government considers it appropriate to reduce gas excise duties on companies with intensive energy consumption in the way we have put forward. If you ask whether the competitiveness of Estonian companies would be improved if all excise duties were to be deducted from electricity or gas excise duties or other tax burdens, then the answer is obviously yes. We need to find a balance point here. We are based on the fact that the current legal situation will not satisfy us next year, we want to give a signal that Estonia is also a favourable place for industrial investment. And with this step, we hope to achieve it. However, the link with the electricity excise duty applied to industrial companies using electricity intensively and, on the other hand, network charges are undoubtedly a concern for the government as well. We've discussed this many times. I hope that both Elering and Electricity will decide to reduce network charges for energy-intensive customers in future pricing policy. Objectively, there is a problem here, of course, especially when comparing the price of electricity paid by companies with intensive energy use in Northern Estonia to that of Estonia. With regard to these steps, it should be pointed out that they have already taken place in June this year in the interests of companies with intensive electricity consumption. Do they match one to one in terms of volume or intensity? Indeed, the questioner correctly pointed out: one to one does not overlap. There are objective considerations for this, which are also justified when it comes to gas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U95	There are no further questions for the initiator of the bill. Thank you, Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu! The rapporteur for the Monetary Commission is Kersti Sarapuu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U96	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I will give you an overview of what worked in the Committee on Monetary Affairs before the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Government of the Republic and other laws. This draft was discussed by the Committee on Monetary Affairs on 27 September. Marek Uusküla, Head of the Department of Customs and Excise Policy of the Ministry of Finance, Lauri Lelumees, Chief Specialist, and the Analyst of the Fiscal Policy Department, Kadri Klaos, presented the draft as representatives of the initiators. The draft provides for a rate of preferential natural gas excise duty of EUR 11,30 per 1000 m3 for gas-intensive operators. In 2019 the standard rate of excise duty on natural gas shall be EUR 63,31 per 1000 m3. The advantage shall not apply to undertakings whose main or secondary activity is the supply of electricity, gas, steam or conditioned air. As a second amendment, the draft provides for the abolition of the increase in excise duties on alcohol planned for 2019 and 2020. The aim of this amendment is to reduce further pressure on the increase in border trade and the resulting fall in excise revenue. The topics and questions in the Commission were as follows: Question: how many companies are using gas at a preferential excise duty rate and how many employees are there in these companies? Answer: For 11 companies, they are expected to apply a preferential rate. The number of employees in companies potentially applying for this benefit is around 45.362 employees, representing an average of 134 employees per company. Question: what was the logic when the rate of excise duty was reduced from EUR 63,31 to EUR 11,30 per 1000 m3? Answer: 11,30 is the minimum level of the European Union. Question: Is there an analysis of the receipts of alcohol excise duty, and what is the level of underbreak compared to what was planned? Answer: Compared to the summer economic forecast, the proceeds will be less than €32 million this year, and €26 million in 2019 next year. Question: Have these changes and impacts been taken into account in the draft State Budget Act for the coming year, which was handed over to the Riigikogu? Answer: Yes, it is accounted for. An explanation was also requested for the forecast published by fuel companies that excise duty has been wrongly calculated by around 100 million. Answer: It is difficult to comment, it is necessary to know the data underlying the calculation of undertakings. It was noted that if fuel prices were to rise, consumption would decrease and excise duty would depend on it. Question: what is the forecast for oil prices? Answer: Annex 1 to the summer economic forecast sets out the assumptions of the forecast and a table showing the forecast of the oil price. The price of oil has been on an upward trend since 2016. Due to increased demand, supply constraints and increased geopolitical risks, oil prices are almost 40% higher than a year ago. As a result, demand for oil has grown faster than supply in recent quarters. The summer economic forecast takes into account the price of USD 72 and USD 72.4 per barrel in 2018 and 2019. Question: why was it decided to lower the gas excise duty? It was replied that the proposal stems from the fact that gas excise duty has been increased every year since 2014 and the last decision to increase gas excise duty was taken in December 2016, which decided to increase the gas excise duty by 25% in three consecutive years, 2018, 2019 and 2020. This humiliation can also be attributed to the fact that domestic and industrial consumers have been taxed at the same rate, and our excise duty on natural gas is the highest in the Member States of the European Union. Question: what is the market share of lean alcohol in border trade? A representative of the Ministry said that the reply would be sent in writing, and that is what I can tell you about further. There was also the question of whether there was information about border trade in Finland, and this information was also given in writing. The Commission made the following consensual decisions: to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by Tuesday, 9 October, to close the first reading and to set the deadline for amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 23 October. At the same time, I can tell you right now what answers came from the Treasury Department. First of all, border trade on the Estonian-Latvian border. Border trade is estimated to account for approximately 24.7% of Estonian alcohol consumption in the summer forecast of the Ministry of Finance. The overall share of Latvian border trade in purchases by Estonians is estimated at 27,1% this year. The share of border trade is highest in the beer purchases of Estonian residents: it accounts for approximately 32.3%. However, it is important to note that although beer accounts for 69-75% of the litres of alcohol sold, the main excise damage is caused by purchases of strong alcohol. There was also talk about Finland and Sweden. In 2016, alcohol purchases in Finland accounted for 17% of their total consumption and in Sweden for 12.5% of their total consumption. The share of Estonian purchases in Finnish border trade is estimated at 10%. In 2017, the volume of border trade in Sweden increased by about 13.5%, but in Finland it decreased by about 14%. According to Finns, the fall in border trade has resulted in higher prices resulting from the increase in Estonian alcohol excise rates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U97	Questions for the Commission rapporteur. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U98	Thank you, good Chairman. Good waitress! I have a question about the same proposal of the Estonian Gas Association. Have you discussed in the Commission that interest groups should be heard directly so that the real impact on businesses can be taken into account? Not that the Riigikogu is based on the Government's desire to patch up budget holes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U99	The Commission did not address this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U100	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U101	Good manager and waitress! I have recently heard the Latvian Member of Parliament, Mr Spolitis, say that, in fact, this increase in excise duty could have been coordinated with the neighbouring countries. He also said that the Estonian delegation to the Baltic Assembly had done nothing to do this. Has this been mentioned, and is it true?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U102	There has been no discussion of these issues in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U103	There are no more questions for the Commission rapporteur. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Reform Party Group, Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U104	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, There is no reason to oppose this bill, in itself, what it says here. It is quite clear that the increase in alcohol duty must be postponed. If there is a desire to increase the competitiveness of companies and to ease energy prices, it is also difficult to argue against this. Rather, attention must be paid to what should have been done with this draft, but what has not been done. There should have been something here. First, let's start with gas excise. As we know, the current power union increased the excise duty on natural gas by 25% on a cluster bill of large-scale tax changes that was pushed through two years ago, and it was decided to do so every three years during the 2018 to 2020 period. Now there's a little relief for big companies. Of course, we can argue whether this is sufficient or not enough, but household customers are completely forgotten. The message from the Minister for Finance of the Fatherland to home consumers is: 'Home expenses up! ' At the time, the Gas Association addressed the Committee on Monetary Affairs with observations that if this increase in excise duty were realised, for example, the excise rate would be 5 to 15 times higher in Estonia than in Latvia, Lithuania and Poland. They also pointed out that more than 100,000 places of consumption use natural gas in Estonia are used to heat a home, heat water and produce food. And since the price of district heating also depends on the price of natural gas, the planned increase in the rate of excise duty on natural gas affects the majority of Estonian residents, including district heating areas where gas is not used. Today it can be said that these predictions have all come true. Home expenses have increased, and even, I think, more than the gas union predicted back then. They also said that, according to their calculations, after an increase in excise duty, heat will increase by 20% in four years. The heating costs of an apartment in a medium-sized home or larger family will increase by 110 euros a year due to an increase in excise duty. It has now come true. And what has come to pass is their prediction that a considerable portion of the victory that people should have due to the increase in the tax-free minimum will be recovered by increasing the excise duty. So home users are completely forgotten. The second subject of this draft is alcohol duty. It is clear that the elimination of planned upswings for 2019 and 2020 will in no way stop border trade. The Ministry of Finance even predicts some increase in border trade next year. It has also come out of this, as Deputy Secretary-General Dmitri Egorov wrote in the media, that there was even a proposal on the table to lower excise duty, because there was a desire to do something about border trade. The price was 30 million euros, but there was no way the government could find money for that. So because of indecisiveness, the inability to do anything about border trade, we will see the continuation of border trade in the coming years. That's all I got. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U105	There is no further wish for negotiations. The first reading of Bill 699 is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments on 23 October, the time being 17.15.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U106	First reading of the draft Act amending the Health Services Organisation Act and the Pharmaceutical Act (689 SE), initiated by the Social Committee. Viktor Vassilyev will make a presentation on behalf of the initiator and also on behalf of the Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U107	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Thus, Bill No 689 of the Health Services Organisation Act and Amendment of the Pharmaceutical Act Act. This draft was initiated by the Committee on Social Affairs and this is a fact that must be stated separately. It is often the case that blanks are fed from the Ministry and that the Commission only raises its hand, but in this case it is as it should be: the Social Affairs Committee initiated the draft and the Government of the Republic supported it. The purpose of this draft is to allow the digital exchange of health data between European countries. This concerns both medical data and prescriptions. The draft consists of two paragraphs. The first introduces an amendment to the Health Services Organisation Act and the second introduces an amendment to the Pharmaceutical Act. The Health Services Organisation Act will be complemented by a new chapter on the cross-border exchange of health data. The aim of the cross-border health data transfer project is to ensure that people abroad receive better quality medical care and access to medicines through electronic data transmission. The Health Services Organisation Act introduces the concept of an Data Exchange Platform: the cross-border data exchange platform for health data is the digital environment for communicating the electronic prescription and patient summary referred to in subsection 33 (11) of the Pharmaceutical Act. The accession countries may be other Member States of the European Union than Estonia, as well as other Member States of the European Economic Area as well as Switzerland. The exchange of data can only take place if the country has joined the platform. Paragraph 33 (11) of the Pharmaceutical Act is supplemented by a reference to the Data Exchange Platform to ensure clarity on how the digital exchange of prescriptions between the associated countries is ensured. The reference to the platform shall also give the data subject legal clarity as to where and by whom and which data concerning him or her are processed. The amendment will have a positive impact on the functioning of the healthcare system, the quality and availability of healthcare in general. The patient can use the digital solution for cross-border processing of health data more conveniently and also use the digital prescription option outside Estonia. The testing of the exchange of data with Finland has been completed and the data is moving in the test environment. In addition to Finland, Croatia and Portugal are also ready to exchange digital prescription data. On 24 September, the Committee on Social Affairs took the following decisions: Firstly, to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda by 9 October; secondly, to propose that the first reading be closed; thirdly, to propose that the deadline for amendments be set at 12 October and fourth, to appoint Mr Viktor Vassilyev, Member of the Commission as rapporteur, who has also carried out this task. All these decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U108	Questions for the waitress. A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U109	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable waitress! You mentioned only Portugal, but what will happen to other European countries? How long would all this take? When can we talk about Europe as a whole? After all, disease qualifications are the same everywhere. Why should it take so long and we can only talk about Portugal now?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U110	Thank you for a good question. In fact, I did not go to any trouble with my wording, but read out an explanation drawn up by Commission officials. I will read this sentence once again: it has been said that Croatia and Portugal, in addition to Finland, are also ready. So there was talk of Croatia. These are the first birds. It's like a pilot project, a platform test. We cannot, I do not know, test these platforms with dozens of countries, so Croatia and Portugal are also waiting for us to be ready. But in general, I very much hope that no one will argue here and that we will be able to deal with this draft quickly enough. The platform will be implemented, and it will start. Nobody wants to stall it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U111	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. Tanel Winter, please, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U112	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Democratic Party supports this bill for a number of reasons. Of course, it is very important for us to stand up for all our compatriots wherever they are. It is known that very many of our people have chosen Finland, a neighbouring country, for either circumstances or otherwise, where wage levels and associated living standards are much higher than in Estonia. We must take very concrete steps to show that Estonia cares about all its people and expects them to return home. We therefore welcome this draft, which aims to allow the digital exchange of health data, for the time being the northern neighbour with Finland. This will make life easier and better for both patients and doctors and pharmacists. It is also important to stress that the wider aim of the draft is to exchange digital prescriptions and medical records with other EU Member States as well. As has already been said, in addition to Finland, Portugal and Croatia have also given their willingness to exchange these data. Of course, it must not be forgotten that things are not all right for us here at home, even in this area. Communication between our own databases requires serious development. This is one of the most important preconditions for the effective management and management of our country, but also for improving the provision of services. This is an important part of the reform of the state. I very much hope that the exchange of data between Finland and Estonia will increase further in order to simplify the lives of people who often cross the bay. Very many people in Estonia and Finland regularly move between two countries, and it is therefore important that data move beyond health care in other areas. Many Estonian people need to provide different proofs of the Estonian registers to the Finnish authorities while living and working in Finland. Issuing them will increase the administrative burden on the Estonian authorities, not to mention making matters unnecessarily bureaucratic for people. At the same time, all the necessary data is already available in the electronic registers and we simply need to get the databases of the Finnish and Estonian authorities to communicate automatically with each other. The X-Road we have created, which Finland has already introduced, is the most important pillars of Estonia's e-governance, which is the ideal platform for moving data. The good news is that a technical solution has already been prepared in February this year, allowing the exchange of data between Estonia and Finland through the X-Road. The Health Insurance Fund, the Tax and Customs Board, the Traffic Register and also the Population Register in both countries have been the first to be ready to exchange data. So it's working. Digital cooperation with Finland, as well as with other EU countries, needs to be actively developed in order to improve automated data flows more quickly. Of course, the cross-border use of digital prescriptions and medical records in the field of health between Estonia and Finland is a very practical and important step, but automatic data exchange between countries must also work, for example, in terms of unemployment insurance and other benefits and services, so that they are more accessible to people. I very much hope that digital cooperation between Estonia and Finland will provide a powerful boost for its spread around the world. The Digital Single Market for Europe is one of the most important preconditions for the successful functioning of this Union. But, ladies and gentlemen, I want to emphasise one more thing. We must remember that the most important thing is not technology, but humanity. I know of a case where a young family who had lived and worked in Finland for years, forced by circumstances, refused to return home because the attitude of the Estonian school administration towards their children left it to be desired. I consider it very important that we all show that our people are welcome back to Estonia. And this isn't about machines or technology, it's about the attitude of all of us. This bill shows the state's attitude that we really have not forgotten our people and that we care. I therefore ask you to be caring about this draft and, ultimately, to support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U113	There is no further wish for negotiations. The first reading of Bill 689 is complete. I will set the deadline for the amendments at 4 p.m. on 12 October.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U114	Now the draft of the Riigikogu decision of the Social Democratic Party to amend the Riigikogu's decision 'Construction of the Riigikogu' to develop developments in state reform' (688 OE) at first reading. The initiating waitress is Tanel Talve. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U115	Hello again! There's nothing to talk about this bill for a long time. Its aim is to appoint Kalvi Tõvi as the alternate member of the problem committee of the Riigikogu in place of Liisa Oviir for the development of developments in the state reform. Since we all know that Kalvi Tõvi is a very large supporter of the thoughts of state reform, I believe that being his alternate is going to be very effective. So please support him!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U116	Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa,
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U117	I'm sorry! Maybe somebody really wants to ask.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U118	Questions for the initiator of the draft. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U119	Good manager! Good waitress! Yes, Kalvi is really hard, but when this committee was set up, it was under discussion how long this committee should be working. And there was a plan that didn't end the composition. But I'm asking you now, there's only a little time left. What's ahead of us in that time? Is there anything big where Kalvi and the other members of the Commission can make a lot of contributions?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U120	Yes, the great aim and work of our Commission has been to develop the fundamentals of state reform, and this work is now under way. Kalvi has already been very helpful in this process, and I hope that there will be more now.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U121	Peter Ernits, please! Oh, I'm sorry! In the case of draft nominations of members of the special committee, each member of the Riigikogu has the right to ask one question to each of the rapporteurs. So Peter Ernits can ask his question to another waitress if he wishes, but no more to Tanel Talve. Thank you. The rapporteur for the Constitutional Commission is Helmut Hallemaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U122	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, An important draft decision of 688 was discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 25 September. As we have heard, one good member of the Social Democratic Party Group on the bench of the replacements of the State Reform Problem Committee will be replaced by another good member of the party. The Commission took procedural decisions: to propose that this draft be put on the agenda by today, 9 October, to propose a final vote and to appoint a member of the Commission, Helmut Hallemaa, as rapporteur. All decisions were made by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U123	Questions for the rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U124	Good manager! Good waitress! I'm gonna have to ask you, but the thought stays the same. There is little time left and the alternates are, as they are, but what is now the big plan for the coming months and when will the expected final report come? When, then, can these golden eggs be read, at the end of February or when? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U125	Thanks to the questioner! The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the political groups have also discussed at all the role and workload of committees, including the relevance and formation of problem committees in their current composition. The Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu is probably intended to make changes, but these very fundamental changes are not likely to be made in this composition. The major changes will probably remain in the next Riigikogu. But I am sure the Committee on State Reform will formulate its final report and, in December, the issue will be discussed for the second time in this Chamber as a key national issue. The first time was in the spring, there was a very constructive discussion with the constructive rapporteurs, and there was also a warm and active reception for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U126	There are no further questions for the rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. Honourable Riigikogu! No amendments were tabled to the draft 688, so we will go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the Riigikogu's decision to amend the Riigikogu's decision 'Construction of the Riigikogu' to develop developments in state reform' draft 688. Please take a stand and vote. There were 50 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft, no one opposed, no abstentions. Draft 688 has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U127	Second reading of the Gambling Tax Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Estonian Cultural Endowment Act Amendment Act (632 SE). The rapporteur for the Monetary Commission is Mikhail Stalnukhin, Chairman of the Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U128	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, This bill was launched on 7 May this year. The Commission held a first debate on 29 May and a first reading of the draft on 6 June. All decisions were taken by consensus within the Commission and the first reading was closed. Let me remind you of the substance of this bill. According to this, the funds received by the state budget from the gambling tax are to be reallocated between the cultural capital and the areas of government of the ministries. We had a pretty long time between the first and second readings, all summer, and so we had a chance to communicate with the organisations involved. We received five written opinions, four of which are unambiguously supportive of the bill and one is against. This is the opinion of the Estonian Red Cross. The point is that, so far, 3.9% of the incoming gambling tax is the budget of the Estonian Red Cross, according to the draft, this distribution will disappear. I have met the deputy director of the European region of the Red Cross, the Chairman of the Board of the Estonian Red Cross. These meetings have also been held by others, and today the Centre Party Group met with the leadership of the Estonian Red Cross. We have received confirmation from the Ministry of Social Affairs that no one will stop financing the Estonian Red Cross. Funding will continue, but they will receive funds not directly from the state budget, but from the Ministry of Social Affairs. With this knowledge, we had a Commission meeting on 24 September, where we discussed the draft before the second reading. Four consensual decisions were adopted: to propose a debate today, 10 October, to conclude the second reading and, when the second reading is completed, to carry out the third reading on 17 October. As I said, all the decisions were consensual. Now to the amendments. They were not received from committees or political groups. At the same time, there are three amendments in this table, which are included in the draft. Everything's technical. The first amendment is to replace the word 'programme' with 'promotion'. It is clear from the explanation that the appointment of a specific programme in the text of the law is not justified; it simply does not apply to the text of the law. The two other amendments have a total of four points which amend individual provisions. In one case, something that was supposed to remain in the law has been mistakenly deleted, while in another place provisions have been erroneously added that are already already already in the law. If anyone cares, I can talk about it for a while, but I don't think there's anything interesting about it. That is all about the Commission's work.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U129	Questions for the waitress! Lauri Luik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U130	Thank you. The authors of this draft focus, in my opinion, on two keywords in their arguments. One is increasing transparency and the other more purposeful when we are talking about abolishing the Gambling Tax Council. If we look at how this Council has worked so far, you yourself, as a member of the Council, are well aware that projects in ministries will pass through the first sieve and that projects will reach the Council that meet the requirements. And the Council, which is made up of representatives of all parliamentary parties and also of the Chancellors of Ministries, makes a decision to support projects to the extent necessary. Now, according to the proposed alternative, which is incomplete and still unworkable, some NGOs and some ministries will be able to share this money. What do you think is: this current system versus the proposed system, which is more transparent and more purposeful?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U131	I'd love to share my personal opinion. I must say, however, that this issue was not raised in the Commission during the debate before second reading; we have simply not talked about it. I merely note that my opinion on this whole thing is slightly different, but this bill has the support of third sector organisations and also the consensual support of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. What else can I add to this? We are likely to have a new system to try.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U132	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U133	Good manager and waitress! On the same subject, I ask that someone decided that the Gambling Tax Council should be abolished and that the money should be distributed in a different way. You've expressed your position here. But I ask you, is Mr Sults satisfied with the fact that this is going to happen? As far as I can remember, he's made it clear that this is not a good idea. How's it going now?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U134	Thank you. In an effort to be correct, I assure you that his opinion is not known to me about the speeches or any articles or other media.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U135	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U136	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! The current system is relatively understandable and understandable. All ministries have major projects, namely annual projects, as well as small projects that can be submitted every month. There are also known amounts. After studying the explanatory memorandum, I understand that in fact, things are getting a little messier for the applicants, every ministry is starting to share money in its own way. For example, the Ministry of Culture gives money to the Folk Culture Centre, sports money goes to EOK, while the Ministry of Education and Research says that they are no longer going to share money, but are going to channel it into certain programs, the Ministry of Social Affairs says that we are going to keep the major projects, we are going to direct the small projects. Such a very high variation will be in the ministries. Don't you think there's a need for a more coherent approach? Applicants find it very difficult to understand this system.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U137	Thank you, good question! Yes, every minister will introduce a system of sharing and all the conditions attached to it by means of a regulation. However, I, for example, have been involved in project work for 30 years now, and I still remember the time I went to this neighboring building to agree on a cultural attaché. That's how we got some tools together. I remember that time, the way they worked to make this work some kind of systemic character. However, no mechanism works indefinitely. There are always those who want to change. For those who don't know what's ever been in history, it seems that it's possible to make things better somehow. I must admit that I myself thought that such decisions could be decided by the next Riigikogu, not by us. But everyone who's been involved, who's ever been to the Gambling Tax Board knows that we get together once a month, we have a table ahead of us, or four tables that contain dozens of projects and also their assessments. I am reconciled with this bill that when I see this table, I can imagine what kind of preliminary work has been done. This means that there are people sitting somewhere who are obliged to read all these projects, to summarise them, to evaluate them on some scale, and to offer us this option. Plus the fact that not every month, nobody in the Gambling Tax Board offers anything to change. Every second session is one that confirms the projects proposed by the Ministry. This makes me hope that it will be possible to work in this way too. But I'm saying that we live in a living world, and if there's ever a realization that something has been done wrong, it's always possible to combine this whole issue under another roof, or Gambling Tax, into the Council. It is now difficult to argue against the draft, because it is in favour of both the third sector and those who are involved in projects in ministries. I don't know if I gave you an exhaustive answer to your question. I think I did.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U138	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U139	Good manager! Good waitress! You, as chairman of the Monetary Commission, are presenting a bride who maybe is a bit flawed, and you also expressed your opinion. I remember when I was in the Centre Party Group, Märt Sults, Chairman of the Gambling Tax Council, said quite badly about this plan. When you answered my question, you said he hadn't expressed his views in the press. Has his voice been quieter in the political group's walls lately? And where is this pressure to take such a step and eliminate the Gambling Tax Council and make the distribution that is now being proposed? Maybe it's a good idea, I don't know, but where's the pressure coming from? And has my colleague, Mr Sults, been somewhat quieter in this matter between the political group's walls lately?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U140	Thank you. Two corrections now. I didn't say the chairman of the council has gone quieter or something. I said I haven't read the statements from the March Sults. I'm not familiar. Frankly, I have absolutely no interest in the media, newspapers and social media. I prefer to talk to people about it, and if you're dealing with it, you don't have time for that fat... All right! I don't know, maybe he's published something. And I said it. Maybe he's been making noises, maybe he hasn't. I wouldn't talk about pressure here, things change naturally sometimes. And sometimes when you see that it's going the wrong way, your opinion, knowing how to do it, doesn't help absolutely. For example, let me remind those who have been here for a long time that I have been constantly talking for 20 years about the mistakes that are being made in teaching the Estonian language. I'm a certified Estonian teacher, I know what I'm talking about. But the opinions of people who do not know anything about the teaching process have always been won, not from the Estonian language. Estonians, when asked by a philologist, are unable to answer them. The same is true of Russian: the average Russian does not know the grammar of Russian, does not know how to teach it. I mean, it's life, Peter. It is not always those who know exactly how to win. Usually, amateurs win. But it also happens that opinions are more or less equal and that there is just some proportion of one side or the other. I will repeat what I have already said here today. What comforts me is that on the other side are all the people who are actually working on these projects. We come together, we go over it with one eye, we make some suggestions sometimes, quite rarely. Those who are actually involved must have some authority to change this system.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U141	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, That's the question about the Gambling Tax Council. The deadline for the submission of major projects for the following year is November this year. The Council will disappear in January next year. What kind of certainty do you think this will provide for applicants? What's going to happen in the meantime?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U142	Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U143	Thank you for your question. I don't know, I haven't been on this side in a long time, and I can't imagine how that makes me feel. But the debate on this draft has been quite public, something has appeared on the news, and at least I have been asked about it in front of the camera and so on. This should mean that socially active people, who usually deal with these projects, should be kept informed. I repeat once again: we have five opinions. Any organization, any person could have sent them. Five of them came, and four of them were positive from the beginning to the end. The problem of the Estonian Red Cross, well, everyone understands that it is a somewhat exceptional organisation and it should be dealt with separately. But in general terms, there was no negative opinion on the third-sector community.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U144	Helmut Hallemaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U145	Thank you, President-in-Office. A good colleague and a penguin waitress! You brought out the Estonian Red Cross, who gave a critical opinion on the draft. But I guess you didn't say the four organisations that gave a positive opinion on the Gambling Tax Act and the draft amendment to the Estonian Cultural Endowment Act. I ask: who didn't consider this new system to be a faulty bride when using the words of Peter Ernits, but to be a very viable and wonderful bride and to support its transformation?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U146	Yes, now I have to read from paper: these are the Association of NGOs, Domus Dorpatensis Foundation for Science and Culture, NGO Social Business Network and NGO Mondo.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U147	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U148	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! It should be said that I believe that this system needs to be changed, and I basically support this amendment so that it becomes clearer. However, if there is a draft before us and there is an explanatory statement on how this is going to happen, I would like it to be sufficiently understandable and understandable to answer certain questions. Shouldn't the update be more understandable to applicants in the explanatory memorandum? If the Ministry of Social Affairs says that they will announce a call for applications to find a partner organisation and says that the decision will be taken in the near future, do you know when this 'necessary time' is? Is that known? Or if support for sport is transferred to the EOK, is there support, for example, for the promotion of exercise? What are these proportions? Or if the Ministry of Education and Research goes to school sports, is the money insured? It seems to me that the explanations of the explanatory memorandum are not sufficient.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U149	I mean, it's the explanatory memorandum to the bill. Everything you have talked about must be in regulations approved by ministers after the adoption of the law. If it had been for this purpose that these regulations were included in the explanatory memorandum, well, I would say that it cannot be a final document. No one really knows what's going to end in this hall. Does it make sense to prepare one document or another perfectly if it is not known if it is lost because of work? So I think that all the details you mentioned will be described in these regulations. It is hardly possible to explain everything in the explanatory memorandum. Let me give you an example. We have spoken on this subject several times in this Chamber, also with your groupmate Jüri Adams. This is one of the few issues on which we have solidarity. We both think and have taken the floor from this courtroom on this issue, too, that the law must be specific, that the law must contain all that is necessary to comply with it. For example, there is currently a draft law in the proceedings of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, according to which a condition for the refund of VAT is that it will apply to an undertaking with a reputation of integrity. Yesterday, the Commission decided that we were not going to carry out a second reading of this draft until it disappeared from the 'unblemished reputation' text. I could explain to you for a long time what that means. I'd say with certainty one hundred percent that half the people in this room are not going under this impeccable reputation, not with that reputation. First of all, we have suspicious friends, which are described in the explanatory memorandum. God, how do you live 30 or 60 years in this world and you don't have any suspicious acquaintances?! Where have you been, interesting?! So these things can't get through. But in this explanatory memorandum that you have in hand, I think it's more or less explained. Well, there are, of course, some questions left, but they are about how this procedure will be used, and that depends on the Minister's regulation.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U150	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U151	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! In the State Reform Problem Committee, representatives of the Development Monitoring Centre have stated that we are talking about the word 'inclusion' and the consideration of the general public for governance, but daily experience shows that Estonia's governance is becoming increasingly central. And this central government is primarily cultivated by ministries. Is there no danger in this draft that we will make governance even more central and, at some point, these interest groups will be in trouble, that they will not be taken into account, and they will appeal to us to ask you, representatives of the people, if you will help us?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U152	If they do, I'll say, well, I told you. And then we're going to re-introduce this distribution mechanism if it's not too late. I hope it's not too late. But if it doesn't happen, then it means that this experiment wasn't really too painful. It's like it's giving you a break from work. Is it too centralized? I understand the next step here would be to charge a thriving totalitarianism, wouldn't it? It is unlikely that such a small change will seriously change the principles of our country. It's just technology.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U153	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U154	Thank you. Let us be honest, the replacement of any democratic institution with a single minister's decision is a violation of openness, transparency and democratic principles, as I have already said. Such an institution is also the Council, which still involves open procedures and the participation of the various parties. I have heard from here and from there that this is not a proposal from the Centre Party, nor is it a proposal from the Pro Patria Union. Did this proposal, which is a direct violation of our country's democracy, come from the camp of warlocks? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U155	Thank you. The beginning of the question was very interesting. To be honest, when this bill came to us, Henn, I thought that those people who are currently on the Gambling Tax Council or who have been there before would somehow give up their opinion. I cannot, of course, be the leader here; I have simply been proposed by the group as a member of the Council. Someone else should play a key role. But I would probably have joined this proposal. First of all, nothing happened in this Chamber of the Riigikogu. There should be 10 to 15 people here who are either present or were previously in this Council, right? Nobody moved a finger. And point two: as far as I know, such experiments have already been carried out several times. We are not the first Riigikogu to try to solve this problem in this way. So I don't think the initiator you mentioned is right. Indeed, this proposal came from ministries and officials directly involved in the work, the evaluation and preparation of these projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U156	Thank you very much for the waitress. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Lauri Luik.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U157	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I have already been to the remote on this subject several times and, according to my memory, have emphasised the same thing that I have come to emphasise once again. I think we're gonna fill up the old well before the new well's ready. The chairman of the commission referred here to the fact that many organisations in the third sector have expressed their support for this draft. I may have been in this Council for over a decade, and every day I have received the opposite feedback from these very third sector organisations. It is very concerned about what the future will be like, and also about what the alternative is, which is proposed. The four NGOs have said that this is a very good draft and they support it, but I have a question that they exactly support. Because when we read this bill, we don't see a particular system there. I am not fighting to make the situation any better or more effective. I'd love to! That is why we are working here to make Estonia and our functioning mechanisms more effective, better and transparent. But in order for us to be able to decide, we need to have an alternative to know. I don't see an alternative on this table today to how this new system is going to work. I therefore argue that this draft is hasty, although this amendment has been proposed for years. Yeah, it's been in circulation. Of course, the interest of both the ministries and the individual NGOs who hope to share this money in the future is that they will have control. They are, of course, comfortable to do so, but the current system is known to operate in such a way that specialists from the Ministry work through the projects sent to them by sector, screen those that do not meet the requirements, and put in line those that meet the requirements and the conditions and procedures set. And then send it to the Gambling Tax Council, which is made up of representatives of all parliamentary parties plus the Chancellors of these same ministries of industry. And it's only the Council that makes the final decision. Versus, then, is now the system that is being proposed and which I do not think is a system, but is simply some very crude idea that some NGOs will be selected who will have the money at their disposal and who will share it in their own field, or some ministries who will share it in their own field. Exactly how, who will be the people who will do this, we have not been told. I myself have been volunteering for years and I can see how much uncertainty this step creates in people in the field. Heidy Purga raised the question of the deadline for the submission of major projects in November of this year, as has been the case so far in November of each year. The NGOs submit their annual budget requests to the Gambling Tax Council, and this is currently done knowing that the Council will disappear in this form from 1 January next year. What message does it send to NGOs across Estonia? I don't think these non-profits are gonna sign this law amendment with two hands. This should already show that the proposed amendment is premature. And to talk about greater transparency or purposefulness here, I do not see how this will make the whole distribution of money more transparent or purposeful, when so many NGOs operating in Estonia are actually put under pressure. In conclusion, I would like to emphasise that I am always in that spirit and will strive to make functioning mechanisms more transparent and effective. However, since we do not have a specific alternative on the table to replace the existing system, I am calling for a slow pace now. Mikhail Stalnukhin, as chairman of the committee, actually has this opportunity. He himself claimed from the remote that he didn't agree to this one hundred percent solution. We are not in a hurry, and this is certainly not a strategic point in terms of the Coalition's survival. So slow down and give a mandate to decide on this for the new Riigikogu formation! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U158	Monika Haukanõm uses the right to speak for two minutes on the ground. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U159	Thank you. My comment stems from the fact that yes, I agree that the law must be specific, precise and not pronounceable. What the author of the bill meant, the explanatory memorandum explains. This means that the explanatory memorandum is an integral part of the draft and the answers must be found in the explanatory memorandum. At the moment, we are saying that the explanatory memorandum is not comprehensive enough that we are confused, as was the case with Mr Swan's speech. The implementation of this law requires regulations, in this case four ministerial regulations. How the situation will be resolved, who and how, under what conditions, in which proportions the money will be given, all this must be put into regulations. My question is: why do we not have draft regulations in this bill today? I will give an example of the work of the Social Affairs Committee. If it is important that there must also be a regulation from the moment the law enters into force, then we have been guided by the principle that the draft regulation must be on our table before the law is adopted. As long as there is no regulation, we cannot move forward as a committee either. We've stuck to it for sure, and it's worked. That's what gives me confidence. At this point in time, we would have less confusion, applicants and, I think, ministerial officials would also have greater confidence if these principles were put on paper in the form of a regulation. Perhaps time should be taken off and the draft regulations of these four ministries brought before us. Then we would be much more sure to vote for or against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U160	The question of Monika Haukanõmme does not necessarily have to remain rhetorical. We are at the negotiating stage and the chairman of the committee is still able to speak. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U161	Thank you. I mean, two things just came out. One is the doubt. There's a lot of things that makes us suspicious, but life is that before you try, you don't know what's really going on. Work is always such a lively process. The one who doesn't work isn't wrong. That's clear. As far as certainty is concerned, it is very good that there are always draft regulations in the Committee on Social Affairs. I've never been to the Social Affairs Committee, I've been to others. And if there is such a line in the law that some order is made by the Minister by his decree, then no one has asked to see this regulation. If this were included in our Home and Working Procedures Act, we would be obliged to demand it, but it would not be very wise to always do so. I am now saying that the chairman of the Commission is, however, representing the Commission's opinion and the Commission's opinion was consensual: to propose that the second reading be stopped and that the draft be put to the third reading as early as next week. So it's clear here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U162	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U163	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, I listened to this debate, and I am becoming more and more convinced, after the performance of Lauri Luige, that we are being tried to sell a bride who is not in the best condition, is a bit flawed and maybe it's good to see her in the dark. I remember from the time I was in the Centre Party Group, how a good colleague of Märt Sults constantly spoke of him as chairman of this council, but unfortunately I don't see him in the hall right now, that the plan is not very good and why we have to do it. And there were others within the political group's walls. And they said it very acutely and repeatedly. Now I am not in this group and I do not know what is going on there. My question to Mr Stalnukhin was whether Mr Sults' voice has now become silent or whether he is forced to remain silent. Maybe he's been told not to come to the hall tonight. Yet his child, the Gambling Tax Council, is being discussed for life and death. March Sults is the chairman of this council. And the second moment. Lauri Luik said very well, I think, why are we going to fill up the old well when the new one isn't ready? This is, in fact, what Mr Stalnukhin, who presented this bride, said in polite terms. When you read the verbatim report, his point is quite clear: yes, I am presenting this draft here, and indeed, the Commission voted in favour by consensus. I don't doubt it, but really, this girlfriend isn't the freshest, and she's a little crippled, too. The question arises as to why it is needed. I also heard of the fact that some part of the NGOs has supported the draft. I remembered there were four of them. Mondo was the last one named. If I remember correctly, there are not four NGOs, there are many, many, many more. I remembered the story of the Silver Rammel of the Mount. That tree got in the way. There was also a letter from four housing companies, a round table that said yes, we cut down this big, whole tree, he gets in the way. It subsequently turned out that the leader of this association was one of the municipal police officers in Tallinn, a man on the payroll of the city government. And there are not four apartment connections in Tallinn, many of you know how many there are. But someone needed a decision like that. Someone needed to chop off that big, beautiful, whole silver drum. And now somebody needs to shut down this working well, and I will use the words of my colleague, Lauri Luige, even though there is no new well yet and I do not know exactly what is going to happen. And I ask you again, who needs it? Mr Stalnukhin said that the Socats are not behind this. I don't know who's behind this, but if there's only four NGOs and we've got how many NGOs, then... What's going on, colleagues? Perhaps this draft should indeed be rejected, but I cannot say that on behalf of the group. But as a citizen and a vigilante, I think it would be wise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U164	Since we are currently dealing with bill 632, Mr Ernits will certainly realise that we do not expect the chairwoman of the Centre Party Group to let us know here what is going on in their group, even though Peter Ernits might want it. But you can do it in the costaars. Mikhail Stalnukhin is given the floor because his name was mentioned as well as the subject under consideration. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U165	Thank you. I'm quite joking about being smacked in the head by one or the other saying and being made categorical. If it were an American court, for example, and my colleague would use the words of the speaker like that, he would get a certain fine for it. I'm not saying what I don't know. I said I didn't know, and I also gave my opinion on where this initiative could come from. Anyone who reads a verbatim can see a clear difference between what I said and how it was interpreted by a colleague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U166	Let's continue the negotiations. Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U167	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we certainly have the right to know who is behind such a regrettable bill in this Chamber and our entire society. Even if there are officials, we actually have a coalition and a government that has supported this bill and from whom we have the full right to know who is behind this particular step. This is an undisputed violation of the legal principles, as well as of our country's draft which violates openness and transparency and undermines democracy. The distribution of the money and property of society will be decided by some narrow faction or one or two or three ministers and the democratic institution of the various parties and also the representatives of the Riigikogu will be abolished. The EKRE Group sees no alternative than to submit a proposal to interrupt the second reading of the Gambling Tax Act and the Estonian Cultural Endowment Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U168	We will vote on this proposal, but we will be able to vote after we have jointly examined the draft amendments. There are three of them. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs; the decision of the commission is to take full account of it. The same can be said for the second and third amendments: they are presented by the Committee on Monetary Affairs and have been fully taken into account by the commission. Now we can start voting on the EKRE proposal to interrupt the second reading. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia to conclude the second reading of the Gambling Tax Act and the Estonian Cultural Endowment Act (632 SE). Sorry, abort! Stop reading. The proposal was supported by 14 MPs, 40 against and 4 abstentions. The proposal was not supported and the second reading has been completed. The Chair shall have pre-emptive powers.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U169	Next item: Second reading of the draft law amending the Social Tax Act and the Income Tax Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, the Waste Act and the Social Welfare Act (685 SE). I would like to ask Mikhail Stalnukhin, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U170	Ladies and gentlemen, I guess I'll have to remind you at first what the substance of this law is. The state budget allocates a certain amount to support waste management and the provision of social services, which is 4.6 million. According to this draft, this money will go exactly as far as the local government's income base for these grants is concerned. As a result, this revenue base will increase from 11,9% to 11,93% in the following year and to 11,96% in the following year. This does not, in principle, mean increasing the support of the local government, which we talked about at first reading, just making matters a little clearer. The draft was initiated on 10 September. On 17 September a first debate took place in the Commission and it was decided that the first reading in the Chamber would take place on 26 September. In summary, the four decisions adopted by consensus were taken and this first reading was completed. There were two Commission meetings between the first and second readings where this issue was discussed: one on 27 September and the other on 5 October. Now I have to explain to you why there were two of them. Because at one great moment it turned out that we are on schedule with this law if we shorten the deadline for the amendments originally proposed. It was initially ten days, but we had to be able to adopt the law in such a way that the President of the Republic of Estonia would have two weeks left before the end of October to announce the law. I hope he will make this decision even earlier than 30 or 31 October. Local authorities then have one less concern because the deadline for submitting applications for waste management is 31 October. If, for technical reasons, there is such a situation that the law can only be passed in November, then local authorities simply do not know what to do. Although we have passed both preparations by consensus, efforts were needed. So, at one sitting, we changed the deadline for tabling amendments, replaced it in five days, and on the other we looked at the amendments already received. This was easy to do because no amendments were received. And which is very rare in the Committee on Monetary Affairs: there are also no technical amendments to this draft. There were no improvements such as the three amendments to the previous draft, which were simply an improvement in words and erroneous provisions. On 5 October we took procedural decisions: to send the draft to second reading today, 10 October, to conclude the second reading and, if the second reading is completed, to send the draft to third reading in this Chamber by 16 October. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U171	Peter Ernits will ask the waitress a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U172	Good manager and waitress! Here's the question. The Income Tax Act changes certain percentages, but I read here that the Environmental Investment Centre has proposed an amendment to the Income Tax Act as regards structural subsidies in the European Union. And it goes on to say that since it has nothing to do with this draft, it will be dealt with in some other way in the future. What was the suggestion? KIK still shares things like that a little bit. What was the suggestion?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U173	Thank you for your question. This proposal relates to the abolition of income tax on European projects benefiting from KIC support. This absolutely does not coincide with the content of this bill. That's one. Secondly, after examining this letter, the Commission forwarded it to the Ministry of Finance in order to obtain the official position of the Ministry of Finance. We decided, of course, not to vote; it is a decision taken as a result of the debate that, if the Ministry of Finance supports it, we will deal with this proposal, which is positive in every way, in some other way. I didn't start talking about it, because really this idea doesn't add up to the content of this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U174	Aivar Chef.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U175	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! It's just, since I'm not reading out of here, I had this question. The entry into force of the Act is foreseen at two different times. You gave up the reason for 30 October, but can you tell me what will change if § 156 (3) of the Social Welfare Act is declared null and void on 1 January?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U176	Wait a minute! I have to admit, I don't remember this right now, but I will prepare you for a written reply and send it to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U177	Thank you. No further questions for the rapporteur. I'm opening negotiations. There are no requests to speak. There are no amendments to the draft 685. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of the draft. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U178	The sixth item is the second reading of the draft law 652 on the amendment of the Family Benefits Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. Monika Haukanõmme, vice-chair of the Social Affairs Committee, please. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U179	Mr President! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I will give an overview of what took place in preparation for the second reading of the amendment of the Family Benefits Act and the related amendment of other laws. This bill is number 652. The Government of the Republic initiated the draft s. a On 4 June, and we completed our first reading on 13 June. It has been a long time, so let me remind you briefly what it is. The draft law before us today makes changes that need to make the use of parental benefit more flexible. In future, the mother and father may be at home at the same time as the child and receive parental benefit at the same time, parental leave can be taken out on a calendar day basis, and work and cohabitation can be combined. Perhaps a little more specifically: the amendments create a single system of parental leave and benefits, some of which are intended for the mother, part for the father and part for the rest of the parents. The names used are parental leave, maternity leave, mother's parental benefit, paternity leave, father's parental benefit and the parental benefit to be distributed. The current maternity leave is renamed maternity leave, and instead of maternity benefit, the mother will be paid the mother's parental benefit. Maternity leave is not considered to be temporary incapacity for work, instead the maternity leave becomes the type of parental leave, and instead the maternity benefit is paid by the Social Insurance Institution. It is possible to stay on maternity leave up to 70 days before the child's expected birth and during maternity leave work is limited due to the protection of the health of the mother. The parent can also withdraw the parental benefit for calendar days until the child reaches the age of three. If the changes already in force gave parents the opportunity to interrupt and restart the parental benefit within three years for a calendar month, the new changes may lead to the use of the allowance on a day-by-day basis. This means that it is possible to receive parental benefit for up to three years, but it is important that the total amount of parental benefit does not change. There are many opportunities, for example, both parents can work part-time and withdraw part-time parental benefit. For example, half of the parental benefit can be taken out each month, thus extending the period until the child reaches three years of age. In addition, parents will be able to take up to two months of parental leave and receive parental benefit at the same time, for example, 30 days before the birth of the child or 30 days after the birth of the child. In this case, of course, the total period of parental benefit will be reduced proportionally by the days for which the parents received the benefit at the same time. There are exceptions for parents of early-born children and for triple and multiple parents, and the total period of parental benefit is not reduced by more than 30 days. This will in any case ensure that these families can stay at home with their children until the child reaches 18 months of age. The conditions for parental leave and parental benefit of the adopter are amended so that all adoptions of children without parental care as well as the parents of the care family are entitled to leave and benefits. The parental benefit of the adopter is 100% of the parent's previous income. A 70-day leave can be used within six months of adoption or the conclusion of a parental contract for the care family. The adoption leave and parental benefit of the adopter can be used either in one part or in one day, and also by dividing it between both parents. In the past, only adopted children under 10 years of age were entitled to adoption leave and benefits and were not extended to the parents of the care family. Both parents in a professional relationship have 10 working days of paid parental leave for each child under the age of 14 (two out of a total of 20 working days) when the changes enter into force. The leave can be taken from the end of the parental benefit until the child reaches the age of 14 and can be used either in one day or by taking out 10 days at a time. Child leave will be paid for 50% of the parent's previous income. In doing so, parents will be compensated at least for the minimum amount of remuneration. The changes in parental leave will resolve the differences in the use of joint leave days, as both parents will have their individual right to leave and benefit. These amendments will enter into force mostly from 1 April 2022. I would also like to point out that this is a'second package' to make the parental benefit system more flexible. Last December, we adopted legislative amendments here in the Riigikogu, which extended paternity leave from 10 to 30 days, and also allowed us to suspend and resume the benefit for three years. These amendments shall enter into force on 1 July 2020. We changed the period for calculating parental benefit: in the future, parental benefit will be calculated on the basis of the 12 calendar months preceding pregnancy. Childcare allowance is terminated and these funds are gradually linked to the parental benefit scheme. That's what we're gonna do now. At the same time as the parental benefit, we made it much more flexible. In the case of multiple births of triplets and more, the parents will be paid a thousand euros per month until the child reaches the age of 18, and this will take effect from 1 April. This was an overview of the law that has already been passed and what we are talking about in today's draft. Within the deadline for submitting amendments, we set 1 August and 1 August. By the deadline, amendments were tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and Tiina Kangro, member of the Riigikogu. On 14 June, the Commission sent a letter to 16 organisations which have been involved in the drafting of the draft and could have an interest in expressing their views, in addition to the Commissioner for Gender Equality and Equal Treatment and the Office of the Chancellor of Justice. The Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Child Welfare Association and NGO Children's Parents sent their written opinions and suggestions. A supporting letter was sent to us by the Estonian Health Insurance Fund, the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People, the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund and the Office of the Chancellor of Justice. Following the completion of the first reading of the draft, the draft has been on the agenda for six meetings of the Committee on Social Affairs on 6 August, 17, 18, 24 and 25 September and 8 October. At its first meeting on 6 August, there was an extended debate on the draft, in which stakeholders were invited and involved. I will give a brief overview of what the stakeholders involved thought, who had also sent their opinion. Firstly, the Alliance for Child Welfare, which is certainly very interested in the draft and in the fact that it does not harm the interests of children. They were looking at it in the interests of the children. They support the draft and accept these changes to seek ways of reconciling work and family life and reducing the burden of care. At the same time, they were still concerned that all children would be treated equally and that the child's interests would always be guaranteed. This directly affects the proposals made by both Tiina Kangro and the Reform Party, for example, on days of parental leave when, for example, only one parent raises a child. The non-profit organisation for the Child Parents was also supportive, but pointed out that the benefits and benefits paid by the state should be for both parents. Their proposal was such that grants and benefits should be split in half. This was not largely understood or accepted, because if there are two parents who are capable of doing so, they should still be able to agree on who will receive child benefit or parental benefit in their current account. If they cannot do so, for example, they have lived in such a difficult relationship, then there is a precedent that the Social Insurance Institution will pay parental benefit to the mother and father in one month on the basis of an application, but the fact that we are going to split all the allowances in half was not supported. Thirdly, the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry expressed its opinion, which agrees that the system needs to be made more flexible for parents and employers. But their biggest concern is that if parents can start taking parental leave one day at a time, how does it affect the employer's need to find a replacement? How long should this period of notice be? The Chamber of Commerce proposed that this period should be 45 days. In the current law, there is an obligation to give notice of the wish to go on leave 14 working days in advance, unless, of course, the leave has already been included in the holiday schedule. The compromise proposal, with employers on one side, the employees on the other side, remained for 30 days. The employers wanted 45 days, the current law has 14. The understanding of the contractors was that it would certainly be disproportionate if the notice period was 45 days. I will introduce very briefly the proposals of the Reform Party and Tiina Kangro, which overlap a little. The Commission certainly did a good job in this respect, trying to find compromises and solutions. The proposals of both Tiina Kangro and the part of the Reform Party have been written in the draft. The Reform Party has tabled 17 amendments that can be grouped a little bit in terms of time savings. The first amendment concerns equal treatment of the rights of adopters and biological parents. According to the current explanation, an adoptive without a working relationship cannot receive parental benefit, although a biological parent without a working relationship would receive it. There was an opinion that it was like a different treatment. The representative of the Ministry explained that there is actually no difference in treatment here. For example, if a half-year-old child is adopted and the parental benefit has not yet been taken for the child, the adopter has the same right to receive parental benefit during the period during which the child has not received the benefit. Second amendment of the Reform Party. Medically, those born before the 37th week are considered early children, and they are taken to the 34th week in the draft. Why has it been brought forward so much? The representative of the Ministry explained that it was based on the so-called early maturity. For example, if multiples are born, Mom needs to stay in the hospital longer and stay away from work longer. That's why it's been delivered to week 34, not to week 37. The group's changes concern the fact that the draft currently says that maternity leave and maternity benefit are entitled to 70 days before the expected date of birth. It is as if all mothers are now forced to stay at home 70 days before the expected date of birth. No, they won't. The mother can decide when she stays at home. The duty is to stay home 30 days before delivery. If so, will he lose those 40 days and the compensation for them? It does not lose because the 40 days that the mother is entitled to, i.e. the so-called mother's parental benefit and the period of parental leave, are simply added to the so-called parental benefit period after the end of the maternity leave period. In fact, parents do not lose anything if their mother does not go to rest 70 days before the expected date of childbirth. The point is only that the health of mothers, as well as of children born, is better protected. A lot of controversy and the same issues as those of the Chamber of Commerce, where a number of changes have been made, led the employee to inform the employer in advance for several days, either on maternity leave, paternity leave or the leave to be granted, and for several days he should inform the employer in advance if he wants to return from the holiday. It's this 45-day versus 30-day argument. The draft maintained that it was a compromise and in the interests of both the employer and the contractor, and the Commission decided that it would be 30 days instead of 45 days. The next amendment concerns days of parental leave. I have just said in the introduction that the current draft provides for 10 working days until the child is nine years old. But if the child has one parent, the parent will only have ten days, but if the child had two parents, mother and father, they would have 20 days, or more time, with the child. What if he's one of the older ones? The suggestion was that if the child had only one parent, it would be possible for the mother to take out 20 days. Tiina Kangro had similar proposals and this was supported by the Commission. The next amendment was that days of parental leave can be taken out in accordance with current practice until the child is 14 years old. The parent decides when he wants to take these days out. According to the bill, it was brought down to nine years of age. The ministry explained that if a child goes to school or kindergarten, these days may be more needed if a nine-year-old and three-year-old may need these days more than a 14-year-old. But since this age does not directly change the number of days when a child is at home and paid for by the state, the compromise was such that we stay at the age of 14, parents have the right to decide whether they want to be at home when a child goes to school or at any other time. That age still remained the same as it is now at the age of 14. Very quickly, too, from Tiina Kangro's proposals. Two amendments were tabled by Ms Kangro. I've been talking about the first one for a while. If the child does not have another parent, the parent would also have the right to use parental leave days for the other parent, but no more than 30 calendar days per year. What does that mean? This means that if, for example, there are two children in the family and there are both parents, you could say that it is possible to have 40 days, but the maximum limit is set here. The second amendment suggested that one parent could surrender their parental leave to another parent on the basis of a written application. This amendment was not supported by the Commission in order to avoid abuse and, secondly, the aim of the draft is still that both parents participate in raising the child. Thank you. Time's up.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U180	Peeter Ernits opens the round of questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U181	Good manager! Good waitress! I'll start where you just finished. Tiina Kangro's proposal is like legitimizing criminal activity, according to you. This proposal is such that one parent may surrender his or her parental leave to another parent on the basis of a written application. I read the explanation that this could lead to a layout. As a rule, it's the mother who takes this vacation. The reason I read was to avoid the layout. You said this proposal would bring out "badness." But please describe to us what it means or what it's gonna be like to be done evil. How are these schematics? Yeah, tell me about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U182	Thank you for your question. I think it was quite demagoguery. Certainly Tiina Kangro did not make this proposal to encourage illegal behaviour or schemes. Actually, I'm pretty sure it wasn't meant to be by the proposer. This proposal was nevertheless borne by sincere concern that, if, for example, one parent for some reason works in another country or in a position where he or she may not be able to take leave or take leave at some point so that the child could still spend 20 days with his or her parent instead of ten working days. But now for the layout. Since these days of parental leave are paid, it is precisely because it is possible to give up your possible leave days that we are actually talking about a small number, 10 working days until the child is nine years old, not 10 working days every year, and the one with a higher salary stays at home. The bill says that 50% of the parent's salary is paid for the day the child is at home. Apparently, this place can make it feel more useful to take those days on someone who gets a higher salary. I don't see any other reason for this kind of scheme. At present, relatively few of these days of parental leave are taken out. The current system is such that the minimum wage is paid. This is a relatively small amount and is not very motivating; parents do not want to lose their salary. Perhaps the system will certainly be more favourable to the parents and can encourage such a thing. But since I really haven't been in any of the schemes, I don't know how much more to think of or describe.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U183	Aivar Chef.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U184	Good manager! Good waitress! Unfortunately, I did not actually hear anything about your report on the two most important changes to this law and, in my opinion, not the best. If, according to the law in force, parental allowance is to be calculated from the moment the child is born and then taken 12 months, a year ago, then the new law is to be calculated nine months ago from the moment the child is born. This makes the situation so that if young people have not wanted to have the next child with a child of one and a half years, it is now delayed because they have to work for 12 months and only then can they think about making a child. Did you still discuss in the Commission that you have physically created a situation in which a family wishing to have a second or a third child must, by force, send a woman to work for a period of nine months longer than is required under the law in force?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U185	Thank you for that question. The draft provides for the calculation to take account of the income earned in the year before last. This means that nine months from the expected date of birth will first be deducted, and then 12 months ago. That's 21 months. The initiator of the draft act, or ministry, explained that if the mother went on parental leave in January 2018, for example, then at that time not all the data on income subject to social tax were available in 2017, they would come three months later. On what basis, then, is this calculation to be made? It was a technical explanation for why this is the case. But I understand that concern. We discussed whether there were any other options and ways to ensure that the parental benefit that parents are about to receive was as close as possible to the amount they earned before going on parental leave. Let's just say the argument was pretty hot. There were variations in one way or another, and it also sounded like if we brought this period forward, we would get back to artificially moving it up. For example, a person is being moved from one job to another, especially when it comes to a private company where it can be done, when mothers start working more, for example, when more burdens are taken, etc. These were the reasons why such a calculation period was chosen. Yeah, we argued about that, yeah, they were heated arguments, but the solution is the way it is on paper right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U186	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U187	Good manager! Good waitress! The main objective of the current government coalition and not only of its was to increase the number of Estonians. And now you're talking about layout. In fact, mothers get these ten days, I'm still talking about Tiina Kangro's proposal, which could be handed over in writing. As a rule, mothers get lower salaries, and suddenly they start to scheme and make a written transfer to a father who gets more pay. But I ask in terms of increasing the number of Estonians and the well-being of the families: why is this bad, and why should it be considered a scheme? This money is actually going to the family. Explain to me why you in the committee think this is a bad thing, a scheme.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U188	Thank you for your question. We come back to what the purpose of this law is. The purpose of this law is to make the parental benefit system more flexible, but on the other hand, to support so-called parenthood and to ensure that both parents, whether mother or father, spend as much time as possible with their child. That's the goal. I certainly don't want to say that mothers are the ones who get lower wages. On the contrary, we may have such examples. Well, gender doesn't play the most important role here. It is proposed by the drafters, or ministry, to encourage the mother and father, both, to be with their children. If, for one reason or another, Mom doesn't want to take out these vacation days, it's her choice. It's the same with Dad. But the question is, can I say on the basis of a statement, for example, that I do not want to. As the objective is to support parenthood, the father is therefore given the exclusive right to take 10 days off and the mother is entitled to take 10 days off. They're not add-on. Except (after changes) that if the child has only one parent, then the parent can really stay at home for 20 days, he or she will be the mother or father.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U189	Aivar Chef.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U190	Good manager! Good waitress! I hope most children are born into a family out of love and are also planned. If I'm planning on having a baby, I can work it out before I do. The story that it's making a design is, I think, very wrong. I sincerely regret that the Commission listened to the various organisations, but did not invite the women who currently have the first child to the table and asked them whether they would agree that the calculation of parental benefit would be turned on their heads and that the next child's arrival would be postponed for a minimum of nine months, which is the shortest time. I am really sorry that this point was not properly debated and discussed in the Commission. But that's my second question. When receiving parental benefit within 30 days, the mother shall not receive any income. How is that possible? What if they pay dividends at that time? In that case, will he be deprived of this benefit? Have I understood the law correctly?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U191	Indeed, 30 days before and 30 days after childbirth, the mother is not entitled to work. It follows... [[A voice from the hall.]] How? We are talking about income taxed on social tax. Down here, as far as my wisdom goes, dividends don't belong. That's not the point.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U192	Please, Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U193	Thank you. I wanted to say to the questioners that there has been quite a lot of this scheme in the past, and especially for those who work on aggregated working hours. You can take out the money, and you don't really use those holidays. I think it was probably the knowledge and explanation of the people of the Ministry of Social Affairs. It was just a comment.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U194	Tiina Kangro, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U195	Thank you. Now there was a lot of talk about me, and somebody might have the impression that maybe I made a criminal amendment in addition to getting out of the group. I ask you, Monika, if the purpose of the law is to encourage both parents to be with the child, and if, according to my change, there is a situation where a mother and a father with a low salary and a family decide that the father takes 20 days' leave and is with the child, then where would the crime and the scheme be? It is expected that this small - paid mother will be more with a child anyway than this awfully high - paid father who is always at work.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U196	Thank you. Now, if anyone really thought that Tiina was making a criminal proposal, it certainly wasn't, as I said before. I can't tell you more than I already answered one of the previous questioners. It is not just a question of the amount of money, it is a question of who is at home with the child and whether there is a mother in the home and there is a father in the home, which is that both take responsibility for raising the child. For a child, it is certainly important to have a bond of communication and a close bond with both parents. Personally, I wouldn't mind transferring it to another parent. Personally, I wouldn't mind. After all, we like to say that the family ultimately makes these decisions themselves. If they decide this way and it's considered, because really, this high-paid father works somewhere on Norwegian wells or wherever, he couldn't possibly do it for some reason, it would make sense. But if this father is already on high pay, then those ten working days in nine years... Frankly, this amount is still relatively small and the number of days is relatively small. The fact that this family will benefit from some very big economic gain, I think, is secondary. Rather, it is important to spend time with the child, to have a bond with the child, and to have a future relationship.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U197	Please, Vilja Thomas!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U198	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! My question concerns the amendment made by both the Reform Party and Tiina Kangro. How did you come up with this? This concerns the problem of a single parent. If the birth certificate does not indicate one parent, such as the father, the other parent is a single parent. But if there is a personal identification number and that person exists, but he does not physically look after the child, and if he now applies for parental leave, how do we tell him that he has no right to do so? Did you think about that problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U199	Thank you for your question. Yeah, that was the subject, that's what we were arguing about for quite a while. As we can see, we have had six sessions on this draft since spring. If the other parent is dead or there is no entry on the birth certificate, then it's easy. If the entry is available but the parent does not participate in raising the child in any way, lives away and bears the responsibility, and if, for example, the mother has a new companion, it is entitled to these days in two cases: if they are married or in a registered partnership. Let me see if there was any other exception. I need to look at this place for a second. In my opinion, there was a clause that, in order to do so, the parent who is not involved in raising the child must make a statement that he will give up. But I need to check this place out. I don't literally remember what it said.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U200	A grain of Thomas, a second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U201	Yeah, just for the record. Thank you. In fact, I am thinking of a situation where a parent who is on the birth certificate does not actually take part in raising a child, but legally he has the right to go and demand this parental leave. Who's controlling it? After all, officials do not go to check or see if they are actually taking part in raising a child. I'd rather ask about those who get this vacation as if they were maliciously and legally entitled to demand it. That was the point of my question. Was it during the debate?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U202	Yes, thank you! I got the point of the question. Was it during the debate? We discussed this subject, but I'm still sticking to the fact that I have to find the exact words, the right place in these six protocols, and I'm gonna answer a little later to not be wrong.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U203	Thank you very much for the waitress. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Please, Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U204	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! After a secure job and salary, Estonia is considered the most important opportunity to reconcile work and family life. After all, no one at the same time has two lives that one has a working life and another has a family life; they do not separate themselves, separate from one another. However, when a child is born into the family, making work and family life together becomes the main concern of the woman. It can be said that only 8% of parents are entitled to parental benefit, and in the language of speech this benefit is called maternity pay. The reason for this is both the rocked gender roles and the time and past perceptions and attitudes. At the same time, the employment rate of Estonian women has been very high for decades compared to that of many European countries, and our women give their eyes to the large majority of women in the rest of Europe and also to Estonian men with their average level of education. Yet, as we know, the pay gap between men and women is huge. In the Human Development Report, we can read that a mother who has spent one and a half years on parental leave stays below her age for both experience and professional experience when returning to work and for women without a career break. All of this, however, significantly reduces the likelihood of a woman moving up the career ladder and, at the same time, increases the chances of falling down when they return to the labour market. A year and a half away from work, however, means additional problems for the employer. Where can we find a competent, fixed-term replacement? Dear colleagues, the current coalition has developed a plan to make the rigid regime more flexible and to encourage fathers' greater contribution to raising children. The aim has been to create a more flexible system of parental leave and benefits, which supports parents' participation in the labour market and the sharing of parenting. Parents should be able to decide more for themselves what is good for their families in order to better share the joys and concerns of raising children. We started at the end of last year when we legalized the extension of paternity leave to 30 days. We increased the possibility of earning other benefits while receiving parental benefit and gave families the opportunity to divide the current period of one and a half years covered by the allowance into three years at their discretion. With the draft we are debating today, we will make the system even more flexible. Since a child of all ages needs both parents, it is also important that the mother and father are able to deal with the child at the same time if they so wish, sharing part of the workload and rest and compensation. The draft provides for the possibility for parents to spend 60 days together on parental leave and receive parental benefit at the same time for this period. In order to provide parents with more opportunities to work alongside the care of a young child or to use the benefit in part over a longer period, the draft provides for the possibility to pay parental benefit on a day-by-day basis. This gives parents the opportunity to work part - time, for example, and to be at home with the child in turn. Another type of paid leave is intended to make the mother and father more suitable, more favourable. We are talking about parental leave, which is currently provided for 3 to 6 working days per year for the mother or father, depending on the age and number of children. If these days are not used during the calendar year, they will simply be lost. After the reform, both parents would be granted ten working days of paid parental leave for each child until the child reaches the age of 14. The leave can be used as part of a holiday or in parts. This would allow several years of parental leave to be kept and taken out at the same time. Those days could come in handy when the child is just getting used to the kindergarten, starting school, or if the family wants to travel together. Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U205	Please! Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U206	There is also an increase in the compensation for parental leave. Experience in European Member States shows that the employment of women and the number of children in the family are in a positive relationship. This is the case in Finland, Sweden and Iceland, for example, where the number of women in employment and children per woman of childbearing age is higher than in Estonia. The reason is very simple: today's women wish not only to have a family but also to exercise themselves outside their home. Of course, flexible parental benefits and parental leave opportunities are not some magic trick that makes women give birth, but the opportunity to reconcile work and family life is far better. Child support has finally increased, but the desire to make a career, to get on the line with life, is a major factor in the daily ministry of bread, which makes the child's birth postponed and delayed. However, Nordic experience shows that more other and third children have been born into families where the father has taken parental leave, and the likelihood that the couple will split up is reduced by 30%. For a child of any age, the time spent with a father will have a positive effect, speed up the physical and emotional development of the child and improve social skills. That's all research shows. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U207	Please, Tiina Kangro!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U208	Ladies and gentlemen, I'll just add a few words, inspired by the question of the fruit. Yeah, well, that's actually the way it is, and we did a lot of talking about whether or not if someone is given some sort of state-paid vacation or benefit, we can't control what he's doing with it. The other thing that's pretty clear is that sometimes it happens that they want to do a terrible good thing, but it turns out different. This threat haunts us here in the Estonian Parliament all the more because we know that the effects of laws have not been analysed very often. For example, with regard to the previous package of amendments to the Family Benefits Act, I would point out that, of course, it sounds great that we allow parents of young children to receive full parental benefit in the long term and, since the previous amendment, to work fully, to receive two salaries. We can always say that we trust a person and that everyone will probably use it in a very responsible way. But our original goal for years of parental benefit was, after all, explicitly stated that during this most sensitive period of infants and young children, it was the mother or both parents who would take turns with the child. But what if it suddenly happens that people have the motivation to be away from the child in the first and a half or three years, because now there is a chance to earn a double salary that can't be paid later? Is that what we wanted? The same is true of parental leave. Indeed, so far it has been customary for a deceased father not to take an interest in this small vacation and, of course, the mother has taken out the total amount of the vacation when she has stayed with the children. Now there's a situation where mom only gets her ten days. In fact, if the runaway dad's any smarter, he's obviously wondering if I'm stupid, I'm gonna get paid for this half, I'm gonna go to work at the same time, and I'm gonna take that money away from the country, all right? So that's right and that's right. What do I mean by that? More law analysis of impact, that would be my proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U209	Aivar Chef.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U210	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, As I understand it, Monika did not actually understand my question exactly, and in the Committee on Social Affairs this issue was not discussed at all. But this is still a very important problem. The way in which parental pay is calculated in the current law, and the way in which it is now calculated in the new law, probably soon to be adopted, is two different things. This means that when a young woman is at home with a child and a family is unable to make a new baby in a year and a half, she goes to work at one point. When he goes to work, he must work for 12 months first, and then he begins to wonder whether or not to raise his family, because the benefit is calculated 12 months ago from the moment the child is made. According to the current law, at the moment the child is born, you take up to 90 days of decree leave and then you only count 12 months ago. My granddaughter was born on November 17th, my daughter took 30 days off on a decree vacation and got what? After 110 days, it is. It was calculated in January on the basis of 12 months of the previous year. But if it were the same situation now, he'd have to be at work before 12 months, and only then would he be able to start making a baby. I am extremely sorry that the Commission did not look at the most important change at all. Of course, they tried to make it clear to me in the other house that it was like somewhere else in the law that it wasn't in this law. But it's beautifully written on page three, long and wide open. The second point is very simple. It is incomprehensible to me that there must be no profit in 30 + 30 days. Yes, I agree not to be paid, not to go to work, but there are also revenues that are subject to social tax, and if you cannot get them, then the question arises. Listen, every one of us can plan to make sure that money doesn't come in these 30 days, but in the 40th day. And we're always saying that we're doing everything we can not to scheme, but we're writing the law so that we should do it, because no one's giving up that money. I still very much appeal to the members of the Committee on Social Affairs that if you come to the third reading, you will be able to make speeches, because there will be no more debate here, but look at the top five lines on page 3. Ask the young women who are home with the first child today whether they actually support the correction that has been made there or not. The idea was good so no one could mess up, but I admit I planned my three daughters. If there was a law like that, I would have paid a woman a month ago, I don't know how much she's paid. It does not lose the scheme, it absolutely does not lose it, it gives the opportunity to plan even more and at that time, when the woman actually gets to work, because she is not carrying a child, but is "in expectation of having a child." Good luck to you! Once again, I suggest you read this third page.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U211	Since Monika Haukanõm is not using the reply option, she probably realized that she didn't understand at first. I'm closing the negotiations. 39 amendments to the draft law have been tabled, and we will examine them together. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs and the Steering Committee, which is the Committee on Social Affairs, has taken full account of it. The second amendment is also the same for the third one, the same for the fourth one, submitted by the Committee on Social Affairs and fully taken into account. The fifth amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the decision of the commission is not taken into account. The sixth amendment is also from the Group of the Reform Party and the lead committee has not taken account of it. The seventh amendment is from the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, the commission has failed, but the proposal is not to be voted on, even if it would be desired, in accordance with § 106 (2) of the Riigikogu Law on Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure. The eighth amendment is from the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, which has been fully taken into account. The ninth amendment, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, was rejected by the commission, but the proposal is not to be voted on for the reasons set out above. The tenth amendment is from the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the decision of the commission is to disregard it. Amendment 11 is from the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, disregarding the commission and unfortunately not being voted on. The 12th amendment is from the Committee on Social Affairs and the lead committee has taken full account of it. The same applies to Amendment 13. Amendment 14 has also been fully taken into account, as presented by the Committee on Social Affairs. Amendment 15 is also fully taken into account and Amendments 16 and 17. Amendment 18 is fully taken into account. Amendment 19 is also from the Committee on Social Affairs and has been fully taken into account. Amendment 20 is fully taken into account, as is Amendment 21 and Amendment 22. The 23rd amendment was tabled by the Estonian Reform Party Group, the decision is disregarded, but the proposal is not voted in accordance with the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Amendment 24 is from the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the commission failed. Amendment 25 is also from the Group of the Reform Party and the decision of the commission is the same: not to be taken into account. Amendment 26 was disregarded, also by the Reform Party Group, and Amendment 27 has also been disregarded. The 28th amendment has been tabled by Riigikogu member Tiina Kangro, the decision of the commission is not to take account of it. Tiina Kangro, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U212	Yes, thank you! The proposal, however, has caused this much controversy to vote on the point.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U213	Let us put this point, Amendment 28, to the vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 28 tabled by Mrs Kangro. This material is available to you, but the one-phrase summary is that one parent could, on the basis of a written application, surrender his or her parental leave to another parent. The decision of the commission was to disregard this proposal. Now give your opinion. 18 members voted in favour of the proposal, 38 against and 1 abstention. The proposal was not supported. The 29th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the decision of the commission is to consider the substance. Amendment 30 has been tabled by Riigikogu member Tiina Kangro and the decision of the commission is to consider the substance. Amendment 31 is from the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the decision of the commission is to consider the substance. The 32nd amendment is from the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the decision of the commission is to disregard it. The 33rd amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs and the decision of the commission is fully taken into account, as is the 34th amendment and the 35, 36th and 37th amendments, which have also been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs and which have been fully taken into account. 38th amendment has been tabled by the Estonian Reform Party Group, the decision of the commission is disregarded, but the proposal is not voted in accordance with the relevant section of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Amendment 39 is from the Committee on Social Affairs; the decision of the commission is to take full account of it. The amendments to the draft 652 have been examined. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of the draft. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U214	The next item is the first reading of the draft law on the release into the environment of genetically modified organisms initiated by the Government of the Republic and on the amendment of the Law on Plant Protection Act 681. Minister of Rural Affairs Tarmo Tamme, please. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U215	Very honorable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! You have before you a very good bill 681, a draft law amending the law on the release of genetically modified organisms into the environment and the Law on Plant Protection. The need to amend the law on the release of genetically modified organisms is due to the need to abandon the establishment of a national database. The design of the law was based on the intention to develop. The amendment essentially introduces three amendments to existing laws. Firstly, the Genetically Modified Organisms Release Act repeals the provisions on the site of genetically modified crops and the inventory of operators. Secondly, the treatment of a genetically modified crop as a notification requirement for the establishment of an economic activity is introduced. Thirdly, the obligation to notify beekeepers of the start of cultivation of a genetically modified crop by replacing the obligation to reach an appropriate agreement with beekeepers before the start of cultivation of a genetically modified crop. The draft also updates the regulation on the start-up of GM crop processing and brings it into line with the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities, which entered into force in 2014. According to the amendment, handling a genetically modified crop is considered to be an economic activity for which a notification of the start-up of an economic activity has to be submitted to the Agricultural Office as an economic administration. The information contained in the notification shall be entered by the Agricultural Office in the plant health register under its administration and therefore it is no longer necessary to establish a new national database. Therefore, the Plant Protection Act will also be amended accordingly. According to the amendment, an agreement must be reached in advance between the beekeeper and the grower of the genetically modified crop. The reason for this amendment is that since honey is quite likely to be contaminated by GMOs in cultivation of a genetically modified crop of three kilometres of bee hives in the air radius, notification alone will not produce the necessary results. It is therefore important to reach a prior agreement between the parties in order to avoid further disputes. The main objective of the draft is that we should not form an additional register, the maintenance of which could cost the state an annual amount of EUR 200000 to 300000. There is no substantive need for this, as no genetically modified cultures are cultivated in Estonia. That's all for short. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U216	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U217	Good manager! Good waitress! Very interesting draft, but I think it is similar to a draft code of conduct in space, to how to deal with other cosmonauts in space, how far to welcome, etc. In fact, there are no GMOs in Estonia, even this MON 810 is not suitable for us, it is in the south, it lives there. Neither is the European stem lady who has led to her being bred. But why do we do this kind of work if we don't have any cosmonauts, no stalk lady, no GM-maidens, not even one?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U218	Thank you. I'm not an expert on space and I don't know what's going on in space. But in the European Union today, crops are allowed to grow maize MON 810 and, if allowed, there should also be a register. In order not to form this register, which would cost the taxpayer EUR 200000 to EUR 300000, the aim of this draft is to resolve these problems in the opposite direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U219	Arno Bridge.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U220	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. If there are any problems in the future, because there will be additional cultures that are suitable for us to grow, will this bill also apply to them? Second of all, I'm gonna ask you one more thing like this. According to the explanation, there are 19 countries in the European Union where it is prohibited. Switzerland is going to do a public survey on whether or not to allow GMOs. Why such a big discrepancy that half the countries will allow and half will not allow?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U221	Thank you, honourable questioner. It's a matter of democracy. As far as I know, the parliamentary elections will take place on 3 March next year. I hope that most parties who want Estonia to declare itself a GMO-free country will put it in their programme, and if the people give a mandate, that will be the case. No such political agreement has been reached today. Indeed, as you said, there are 16 to 17 countries in the European Union that do not need to deal with this bill at all, but because we are not one of those countries, this bill must be dealt with. But I myself think that Estonia could be a country that would be GMO-free. But in the parliamentary elections, this would be a very good debate place.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U222	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U223	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. It concerns honey producers, all this cultivation of genetically modified crops. Would you speak out in a very simple form? After all, bees not only travel three kilometres, which is acknowledged in the explanatory memorandum, but they can also cross the border, northwards, westwards, everywhere. How can the attitudes of the surrounding countries still affect our honey growers if we take such a rigid view that we do not support GMO cultivation?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U224	Thank you. This question will not be raised until GM crops are grown in Estonia. This is a preventive measure to ensure that, if bees are present in this area, it is necessary to agree with the owner of the beehives before this culture is cultivated, in order to prevent bees from collecting honey from GM culture and thereby ruining the entire honey supply.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U225	Peter Ernits, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U226	Good manager! Good waitress! Thanks for not making that expensive register. Similarly, if there are no cosmonauts, there is no point in drawing up a compulsory register. Let's save some money! A GMO-free Estonia could, of course, be, I am in favour of it, but in essence, Estonia is GMO-free. This unfortunate or happy corn, it's not MON 810, and there's nothing else, and bees don't fly across the sea. It's like this bill, it seems to me like a replacement, even though you're not gonna make that expensive register.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U227	Thank you. If the honourable national ambassador and his party support the principle that Estonia could declare itself a GMO-free country in the spring, then I support it and then there is no need to deal with this register, but until it has been done, it is possible to grow GM cultures in Estonia and, unfortunately, the register must also be kept. So they're related, they're not divorced.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U228	Aivar Chef.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U229	Good manager! Dear Minister, I've been looking into who the Ministry was coordinating this bill with. I see that the Chamber of Agriculture is not among them. Can you tell me why only small ones are co-ordinated, but there is no umbrella organisation for large farms?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U230	Thank you. Good question. But I think these drafts are visible to everyone, and they all read them very carefully. If they had any interest, I'm sure they would have proposed. But I'm asking you where this interest can be, because basically we don't grow GM cultures.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U231	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U232	Once again, Minister, I will clarify my first question. My question was that bees, like they don't perceive these borders, say, south, east, anywhere. They don't really fly across the sea. How do our neighbouring countries view genetically modified cultures? Let us also mention these countries, for example, Latvia and Russia.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U233	Thank you. You know, I do not, honourable Member, have a list of countries that have declared themselves GMO-free. There are 16 in the European Union17 and this is the order of magnitude. There is no problem, but in the rest of the countries this problem could arise. Is this allowed in our neighbouring countries, such as Latvia? I owe you an answer, but I can certainly give you that answer. Do Latvian bees go to the Estonian harvest grounds? They can walk because there is no GM culture in Estonia today, so they are free to fly here. We get along very well with the Latvians, and especially the bees get along well.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U234	Thank you, Minister. There are no more questions. Aivar Kokk, Chairman of the Rural Commission, will make a presentation of the commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U235	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll answer Urve's question, don't look. In Latvia, GMOs have been banned, and there is nothing to grow that has to do with GMOs. It's gonna go away. Russia has not done so. But the other side is that the beehives are not attached to the ground with the foundation, they can be taken to exactly where they want to be, and the bee harvesting area is not very wide. That three kilometers is the width of the average harvesting area. On 10 September, including the Government of the Republic, the Rural Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu discussed the draft law on the release of genetically modified organisms into the environment and the amendment of the Plant Protection Act 681. Sigmar Suu, Head of Plant Health Department of the Ministry of Rural Affairs, and Merjan Savila, Head Specialist of the same department, were invited. The Genetically Modified Organisms Release Act regulates the release into the environment of genetically modified organisms, the marketing of products containing genetically modified organisms and the handling of genetically modified crops. The first two points are dealt with by the Ministry of the Environment; the Ministry of Rural Affairs deals with the rules for coexistence between genetically modified crops and conventional crops. In the European Union, including Estonia, only one genetically modified crop is allowed to be grown, as was previously the case here, that is MON 810 in May. The draft will abandon the establishment of this database and address the issue of how farmers in the surrounding area should be informed if the colony is at the edge of the field. No GMOs are currently grown in Estonia, but GM is used as feed for grain. This issue will certainly come to the table between the first and second readings in the Commission, so that farmers will also look at it. You can't take a field out of the woods, but you can maybe have beehives. The Commission made consensual decisions to appoint Aivar Kokk, Chairman of the Rural Commission, as rapporteur for the draft 681, to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda on 10 October, to propose that the first reading of the draft be stopped and to propose that the deadline for submitting the draft amendments to 681 be set by 10 working days, i.e. 24 October, at 5.15 p.m., in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U236	Thank you very much for the waitress. There are no questions. As you have just heard, the proposal of the commission is to conclude the first reading of draft 681. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft at 5.15 p.m. on 24 October.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U237	Today's last item is the first reading of draft law 678 on the prevention of unfair competition and the protection of business secrets initiated by the Government of the Republic. Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice of the Chair, for presentation. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U238	Honorable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members! The Government has submitted to the High Chamber a draft law on the prevention of unfair competition and the protection of business secrets. This bill is based on the belief that do not crave for what belongs to your neighbor, or in other words, do not try dishonestly to gather wealth and use the secrets that do not belong to your property. This draft establishes rules that promote the competitiveness and innovation of businesses, including by encouraging investment in the creation of intellectual capital by preventing unfair competition more effectively and better protecting business secrets. It is based on a pan-European agreement between countries, a corresponding directive on trade secrets in European countries. Of course, in order to have more incentives to invest in business activities across borders with intellectual property that may include business secrets, it is reasonable that a minimum common defence platform is provided for commercial secrecy across national borders. Business secrecy is not all subjectively assessed information, but information which must comply with three fundamental elements or conditions of composition. First, it has commercial value because of its secrecy, second, the person having legal control over it has taken measures, on the basis of the circumstances, to keep it secret, and thirdly, it is not known or easily accessible to the circle of persons who normally deal with such information. In practice, it is still the subject of a private dispute, i.e. if a company or undertaking senses that its business secrets have been violated, it can claim damages for unlawful acquisition, use and disclosure of business secrets in civil proceedings. In addition, this law sets out the provisions on unfair competition, which had so far been regulated by the Competition Act. The Competition Act itself deals with public competition rules relating to the operation of the State as a monitor of compliance with the free market rules through the application of the rules of the Competition Authority of its operating agent and the application of the rules of competition in restricted market conditions. However, issues of unfair or unfair competition are, in itself, once again phenomena in the free market. If one private party harms another private party in a way that is not in accordance with good business practice, then, again, there are safeguards available and they are also coordinated with competition law experts. The current practice, which concerns both the regulation of unfair competition and the commercial warehouse, has been very limited. In general, the assessment of private law experts, lawyers, is that this area certainly needs to be further improved in order to protect honest Estonian businessmen who do not want to be enriched with industrial espionage or similar activities, both on the territory of Estonia and in the wider sense, once this directive has been transposed in all countries, including Estonia, and above all to protect the investments of Estonian entrepreneurs across the legal area of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U239	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U240	Good manager! Good waitress! I was talking about this bill on Monday, and I think it might be like putting it on the phone. But I'm asking. When the Supreme Court says that the text of the law can no longer be more vague than what you have presented to us and asks whether such unclear definitions are business-related talk, and whether Estonia's legal order must be taken over blindly and whether there have been before, then your ministry says: 'Yes, such unclear definitions must be taken over blindly by Estonia's legal order. Yes, there have been problems on this issue in the past. " Explain it now. I don't understand it, even though we talked in the Committee on Economic Affairs about what this business secret is, the high-ranking judges don't understand it either, but you come with a bill that you suggest you come to us yesterday and take tomorrow's paper with you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U241	Thank you. The business secret, as I referred to, is not any subjective assessment of meaningful information that could be regarded as such. By the end of the day, the "legal holder" of this information will, of course, make a subjective assessment of whether it is a business secret. And in civil proceedings, it is clear through a court decision whether or not there was a trade secret in objective circumstances. It is possible, in itself, to which several other experts have referred. It is not just the specific problem that the good questioner referred to that that matters here. In fact, the question is whether to present an illustrative list of cases where, in any case, there should be a trade secret, leaving it open at the end of the list. This would be an "alternative" definition. However, this would mean that such an alternative definition would not be legally indicative, which, according to the experts of the Ministry of Justice, would only lead to a misunderstanding that the examples in the model list would in any case prove to be business secret under law, although in practice, what is mentioned in the illustrative list should always be assessed according to the definition of business secrecy. And the assessment, the weighing category, the judge doesn't get away with it. The judge must have a head on his shoulders, good thoughts must be in his head independently, he must appreciate. He's not gonna get away with this job. For this, the taxpayer pays him a salary to apply the law fairly. And he gets a wide margin of interpretation, it's not possible to give it exhaustively with indicative categories. Like I said, business secret is information, it's his signature. He must meet three conditions. All the terms of the composition must appear and be assessed in the collection, the existence of all the elements of the formation shall be assessed by a judge who shall state whether any information in the context of circumstances is a business secret or not. I'll go over it. This is information which has commercial value because of its secrecy. I mean, he's gotta be undercover. It is expected to have a commercial value, make money, make a profit. Secondly, the person legally holding this business secret has actually taken reasonable measures to keep it secret. The court must begin to assess in a reasonable manner what these reasonable measures are. If these things are just lying around in storage corners or somewhere else and everyone gets close to them, then obviously this obligation has not been fulfilled. Thirdly, he cannot be, let's say, derivative, i.e. he cannot be deduced by people who are professionally active in this field, so that this information, which is commercially confidential, is put together on the basis of sound logic. Consequently, it must have some form of uniqueness which it is not possible for professionals in this field to derive in any other way than by crossing the obstacles of an illegally legitimate owner by invading that secret.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U242	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U243	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. This draft law is a transposition of European Union law. Indeed, the wording of the draft law is sometimes very incorrect, in polite terms. But please, on the basis of your own experience and knowledge, tell me how serious the problem in Estonia is at all the emergence and creation of unfair competition and how much we need it now. Is that the law we need in this form?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U244	Thank you. In itself, the Penal Code currently defines as offences the unwarranted disclosure and use of business secrets as well as the breach of the obligation of secrecy, i.e. when someone has violated that obligation in the company's service. In fact, there were individual cases each year between 2010 and 2017, which were dealt with. But, as I said, practitioners, those lawyers who make bread by representing businessmen and entrepreneurs in these business-to-business disputes, say that the current law is poor, the current law does not in practice provide effective protection for these professional entrepreneurs. I am not going to say that the wording of this law is as clear in character as the traffic code, which must be understandable for all people on their feet or on their wheels. There is no doubt that this is a 'rule' for regulating relations between professional operators. The drafters, or the drafters of the original text of the directive, have not been incompetent, but are precisely deliberately left behind by virtue of the circumstances of the case, in what context it is necessary to say whether, in a conflict between two companies with manifestly conflicting interests, one should receive any financial compensation for the fact that the other has either misbehaved in competition or stole business secrets. In the future, will this increase the likelihood of private legal disputes arising? I think so, based on expert judgment. Clearly, in reality, the complexity is due to the fact that the provision of objective information competent in a private dispute, that some information is in the possession of a mistrustful undertaking and that it is a business secret, is, to put it mildly, a difficult task. We can imagine that on the basis of the usual logic, can't we? Obviously, it can be based on circumstantial evidence. If the company feels he's been robbed of a business secret, it's unlikely that he can apply an industrial espionage to make sure it's in the hands of another company. After all, it remains to be assessed in the context of circumstantial evidence. I also say that when we talk about an explosive increase in start-up investments, such as Taxify and all the other companies that have received money, young men have become multimillionaires overnight, it is primarily based on intellectual knowledge, original information. We are undoubtedly interested that some spies will not steal this information from our millionaires, and our businessmen, our entrepreneurs, will not be harmed. In such a service economy environment, especially in the IT field, information is actually the core that pays, and it is certainly justified to protect businesses more. The wording. It's not an angel law, it's man-made, I believe it's a law prepared by practical experts. We can certainly discuss whether something could be highlighted in a smoother Estonian language. I'm not saying at all that this is the end of wisdom. Fortunately, also linguistically, the experts of the Riigikogu's norm and the experts of the Economic Commission will look at it. But if you ask if this law serves the right thing for its purpose, I can safely say that it does.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U245	Peter Ernits, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U246	Good manager! Good waitress! National judges say that you should actually give us some guidance, or you're gonna throw this whole thing on the judges, let them see how they decide to come to us yesterday and take tomorrow's paper with you. But my question is different. You are now presenting a directive (this number does not matter at all, although I can name it) and you are going to say directly to the judges of state and to us that yes, must be taken over blindly. I now ask whether you believe in the light that you are the Minister of Justice of a sovereign state, and we here are the Members of Parliament of a sovereign state, if you come here with such a thing and say that we must take over blindly, even one that the higher judges have said that they have not seen such nonsense in a long time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U247	Thank you, dear Peter. I would like to say that the word 'dark' is in quotation marks and, as far as the criticism is concerned, it is irony. Irony is also a perfectly legitimate form of self-expression used in judicial decisions. A working group composed of representatives of Estonia was involved in the drafting of this directive, and so this directive was created. The directive will be transposed by the State in the way it considers it right. It's our own master's right, in a dim way we'll apply it. Obviously, it is not possible to translate the directives directly into Estonian because of their graphic fashion. Three. The country may not adopt the directive; we also have this right. We'll do our own business on our own territory. This will be followed by certain procedures before the European Court of Justice, but we ourselves will make the decisions that we consider necessary. I am very moved by your concern and blindly clinging to the authority of the letter of the Supreme Court. But neither does the letters of the Supreme Court contain the wisdom of the world of angels, but these letters are made by people to people. I would like to say that it is a good practice to draw up a draft law to ask for the opinion of practitioners, but the sovereign is the legislator. The legislator finally tells us how things are, and the court, whether it is the Supreme Court or whether it is the lower court, exercises the will of the legislator. The court cannot take power; the court does not create the law; the court applies the law; it is a prerequisite for the rule of law, a prerequisite for separation of powers. This letter has certainly been written by wise people, but it does not mean that it is the only truth, for then we would not need laws, but we could manage our country on the basis of letters or telephone calls.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U248	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U249	Thank you. I totally agree that this, let's be honest, bullshit is not the only true truth. If we're still a sovereign state and you're a minister of a sovereign state, then you wouldn't want to waste any time with this kind of bullshit, literally. But since even the Supreme Court didn't understand what this business secret is, and it's not clear from the explanatory memorandum either, maybe you're so good and you're really defining what this business secret is.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U250	Thank you. According to the proposed draft law, there is a presumption that, if we talk about business secrecy at all, it is information that contains three mandatory elements of composition, and it is required that, in order for any information to be classified as business secrecy in a particular procedure, all elements of composition must be present. Firstly, it must be information which has commercial value because of its secrecy. Public information can never be a business secret. Secret information which has no commercial value cannot also be a business secret. Secondly, he who exercises legal control over this information has taken reasonable steps to ensure that this information remains in his possession only. If he has not done so, either he has been careless or he has not really treated it as a secret, so he cannot be a defined secret. Thirdly, the most important fact: this information in its own collection or in the exact layout of individual parts cannot be easily accessible or widely known to those who engage in this type of information in their professional activities. In other words, it is not possible to deduce any information, whether it is information that is unique to information technology or whether it is a question of pricing a business, with the help of sufficient know-how, by acting in this area of the market. The way Marconi and Popov reportedly made up the radio, but in reality, Marconi made up the radio.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U251	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U252	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I read the bill, listened to you and asked you a question. Why is such a law with a small number of paragraphs needed? Why was it not possible to lay down the rules for the protection of business secrets under the Commercial Secret Protection Directive in the current Commercial Code?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U253	Thank you. What is important is that, in principle, this law consists of two parts. One part regulates the Commercial Code and the Rules of Procedure for the Protection of Commercial Secrets, and the other part regulates unfair competition. This legal measure, why the provisions on unfair competition are out of the current competition law, unfair competition is not of a public nature, but of a "rule" nature of private relations, I described in advance. In practice, however, this reason was linked to the procedural rules and procedures that have been described with this specific subject-matter of regulation as to what this protection should look like in a processical way. In principle, if you ask whether it would be conceivable to incorporate it under any other law relating to the area of private law, whether it is a commercial code mentioned by a good questioner, or the Law of Obligations Act or any other law, in itself it is possible to do so with separate chapters of the General Part of the Civil Code Act or any law concerning, say, the activities and relationships of companies or legal persons, it is undoubtedly theoretically conceivable. Relationships between certain areas in the legal environment are always conventional in nature. The draft act was drawn up on the basis that it is a very specific legal relationship, where both the material rules of the legal relationship and the procedural rules have been taken separately and, as is the case, regulated separately and could be dealt with in a separate law. However, as far as further processing of this draft is concerned in the Committee on Economic Affairs is concerned, if further processing seems to be able to resolve this issue by some technical technique, I think that the representatives of the Ministry of Justice are certainly open here.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U254	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. In your presentation of the bill, there were a number of Christian subordinates: angels and references to ten commandments. Of course, you didn't make it to forgiveness, but it was all very nice and made it very clear. However, my question concerns the fact that this draft law will also regulate the disclosure of misleading information. How does this affect, for example, information about business activities online? However, life shows that it is possible to publish very much misleading information in the interests of increased sales. I am not talking about any particular company or Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U255	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U256	Thank you. I am looking at the wording of § 4, which deals with misleading information. I would like to say that this platform for the transmission of information is not narrowed down in any way. Clearly, misleading information on the web is much more effective or effective than it is probably via a paper ad or perhaps a radio ad. So, in itself, this law will certainly also protect against unfair online information distributed by a competitor.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U257	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U258	Thank you. Dear Minister, You have always believed that unnecessary laws are not needed so that we do not regulate what does not need to be regulated. The adoption of this bill as a law requires the votes of 51 members of the Riigikogu. I can say that if there are no changes here, when we adopt the law, we will agree that it is absolutely right to increase legislation with unnecessary laws, increase legal clarity and engage in substitution activities. I very much hope that the Committee on Economic Affairs will take the appropriate decisions and you will agree with them.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U259	Thank you. It was a quantum question. The American federal law collection is essentially one law that has, I don't know, 100,000, 200,000 or 300,000 paragraphs. It's a technical technique. In itself, we could also do this in Estonia and say that there is one law of the Republic of Estonia that runs into separate chapters and has 50000 sections. Then you could say in this speech chair that according to § 32426 of the Estonian Act, you have committed a misdemeanour. Clearly, our legislative culture is different. For some reason, I think he's promoting a better understanding of laws when it comes to succession laws, penal laws, etc. When it comes to the number of standards, the question is whether these standards are necessary in the Estonian legal order. As regards the protection of trade secrets, I can rely on our competition law experts and experts from the Ministry of Justice who say that these standards are necessary for the business environment to function, and that is the end of the story. I am sure to call on the members of the Economic Committee to listen to experts and experts on this issue, whose main activity is to deal with it. In what way are these rules incorporated into one or another of the existing laws in Estonia or they remain independent? I want to reiterate my view that I am completely open here, that I am certainly not obsessed that it must be resolved in one way or another. However, 51 votes are necessary here because this law concerns procedural rules.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U260	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U261	Thank you, Mr President. Very honourable Minister! To make it easier for me, I'm gonna ask you this question. Under § 3 of the Act, acts contrary to good manners and practices may also qualify as unfair competition. Can you help me explain this a little bit? From where can these works qualify as dishonest, contrary to good manners and customs? That's pretty soft. Why don't you help me explain a little?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U262	Thank you. This § 3 is actually incorporated here in its wording, I believe, from the competition law that has been in force for ten years, as regards unfair business practices, conduct contrary to good manners and practices. But what works are contrary to good manners and customs? It will be furnished by the courts on the basis of the general legal traditions and business traditions of this country, its society, which have been held in mind. In some societies, certain activities may be interpreted as unfair competition and others may not. But I think you can still use the Scriptures to answer here. The assumption must be that what you don't want your neighbor or competitor to do to you, you obviously shouldn't have to do to another business competition yourself.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U263	Urve Tiidus, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U264	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The explanatory memorandum to this draft states that a survey was carried out among economic operators asking whether their business secrets have been abused. Surprise, surprise, 5.2% said yes. It is estimated that it is 1600-6400 companies. I ask you, as an experienced legal person, how many cases do you predict in Estonia when this bill comes into force?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U265	Thank you. In this survey, of course, I take it in such a way that it is such a matter of great generalisation. Certainly, those operators who responded were not at home in the logic of legal nuances which could be affected either by the law in force or by the law created. I guess he was a reflection of the attitude. But how is this range obtained? This range of 1600 to 6400 is obtained by extrapolation. It is assumed that there are many economically active entrepreneurs in Estonia, 127000. Turku-Studies AS compiled a study sample of 166 companies. Of these, 5% replied that business secrets had been abused, and it was multiplied by this ratio to obtain this number of 6400, corresponding to their number in the total population. I would like to say that, as I said, penal law has been regulated in individual cases. I think that the number of these cases or procedures in private disputes is certainly increasing. However, it is a specific, special type of business where a business secret is of such weight that it could cause economic damage, and it must also be able to prove it in such a way as to consider whether it is appropriate to refer the matter to the courts. I think it will certainly increase compared to today, but this order of magnitude will be in tens rather than thousands or hundreds. But standards have a daunting character. We also have rules in the Penal Code that, for example, never apply once a year. Thank God that very serious, vile crimes are not committed in Estonia every year. But that doesn't mean those norms don't have a function. I certainly would not like to see business secrets protected in all the other Member States of the European Union, but it is not sufficiently protected in Estonia. No matter what motives we would make this choice, it would certainly put Estonian entrepreneurs in a much worse position. If there are companies that want to come up with something in Estonia and hope that they will be rich on the basis of this unique knowledge while operating across Europe, then we should certainly not facilitate that it is possible to come from some other country and simply steal it from Estonian businessmen.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U266	Henn Põllamaas, second question please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U267	Thank you. I am very pleased about what you said earlier that, as a sovereign state, we have the full right not to adopt or amend directives. All the more so, the Supreme Court also considers this to be a completely vague text, law and definition. But then I ask why we do not act as a sovereign state that we take over such a directive and in such vague wording and definition that it can actually open the Pandora Box of Infinite Trials.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U268	Thank you. I mean, what was the question? I replied that the Supreme Court did not say that this law was not necessary. The Supreme Court called for consideration of the creation of an illustrative list in this bill. I explained why it would be contrary to the logic of this draft, this illustrative list or the opinion of the Supreme Court on this draft. Sovereignty in the territory of one country is absolute. There's no way to make any reservations here, or I'd be far from making reservations. Estonia may belong to the European Union, but if it does not want to, it does not belong to the European Union. It is a prerequisite for the functioning of the European Union that the European Union's legal order is implemented in all countries, but the way it chooses and its internal choices are made by the Member State itself, as it sees fit in its own interests. If you ask whether this limits the sovereignty of the Republic of Estonia, if the businessmen of Estonia are better protected across the borders of Estonia and on the territory of the Estonian state, the idea on which they earn money, pay wages to their employees and implement our budget, then I would argue that this, on the contrary, protects our sovereignty. If we want to walk around like the plains of Sarmatia, because the Scriptures have already come up here, just on our side, and we imagine that everyone can take everything from us, we turn the other side, we don't defend ours, we don't defend ours, we don't defend ours, we take and steal us, we don't protect our businessmen, then I say that's not my idea of sovereignty. It's a hippie line of thought. Do not pursue hippie thoughts! It's a hippieful thought of turning to the other side, but we live in a world where there's a lot of evil in addition to good, and we have to be relevant in this world too.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U269	Minister of Justice, there are no further questions for you. Please speak to the Vice-Chairman of the Economic Commission, Toomas Kivimägi.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U270	Mr President, thank you very much. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was discussed by the Committee on Economic Affairs at its meeting on 24 September inclusive. In addition to the members of the committee, the Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu and Counsellor of the Department of Private Law of the Legal Policy Department of the Ministry of Justice Käddi Tammik participated in the discussion of this draft. Urmas Reinsalu also introduced the draft in the Commission, stressing that the aim of the draft is to make Estonia's business environment safer. Secondly, he stressed that the draft was the result of the European Union's directive on the protection of trade secrets in this respect. It noted that the draft does not alter the existing regulation of unfair competition in substance other than the protection of trade secrets under the Directive on the basis of which the established provisions define trade secrets and their unlawful acquisition, use and publication. Colleagues Peeter Ernits also asked the same questions at the meeting of the Commission as today in this large Chamber, asking first to comment on the positions of the Ministry of Justice in the context of coordination and public consultation on the comments made by the Supreme Court. The first question was about what is understood by the need to protect recognised legitimate interests. In this regard, the Supreme Court noted that the text of the law cannot be any more vague. Indeed, this wording has been used by the Supreme Court. The Minister replied that, of course, it is important that the law be understood by market participants and that the court should also be able to implement it. I think the next sentence I'm going to read is very important. In particular, the Minister of the Commission stressed: 'The text of the Law on the Protection of Business Secrets must be uniform and, at the same time, general in order to cover situations which, when adopted by the legislator, cannot be seen and defined in order to avoid the legal feathers that the detailed provisions inevitably create. " This is the answer to why this " model list of business secrets " is not included in the text of the law. Arto Aas asked whether it would have been possible to integrate the transposition of the Directive into competition law. Urmas Reinsalu also replied, like in this large hall, that competition law generally provides for public authority activities in relations with market participants, but this draft and the corresponding chapter of the Competition Act regulate purely private relations. This is why this chapter was removed from competition law and there is a separate draft law. Toomas Kivimägi asked whether the concept of unfair competition was replaced by a new concept. Urmas Reinsalu confirmed that in terms of unfair competition, the word "unfair" is replaced by the word "unfair." Peter Ernits once again asked about the concept of business secrecy. The Supreme Court noted that the concept of business secrecy is difficult to grasp, while the parties should understand it. Indeed, the Supreme Court also stated that the law must be understood by as many persons as possible and, if for any reason it is not possible to present a clear text in the law itself, the explanations must at least be given in the explanatory memorandum. Urmas Reinsalu emphasised here too for the third time that the position is to be read out in advance, that business secrecy is, first, information of commercial value (it is included in the text of the law), second, the holder of a business secret must have fulfilled a sufficient duty of care, he must have taken sufficient measures to ensure that this information is secret, thirdly, this information must be unique, it cannot be a well-known knowledge. To this point, I will add, in addition to what is in the protocol, that, in fact, one compromise has been made: the explanatory memorandum to the draft contains a list of possible business secrets. This was a compromise made by the initiators of the bill for their part. They did not consider it justified to include this text of the law, but the explanatory memorandum to the draft contains this "open" or "example" list of business secrets. If I have to, I can read it. Arto Aas asked the same question, which came from here on my left, why it was still necessary to have a separate law on it, why it was not possible to regulate it by competition law. Käddi Tammik, adviser to the Ministry of Justice, commented on this, explaining that unfair competition is private rules and should therefore be removed from competition law. Perhaps this is one of the few parts of the private sector, not the only one in the competition law, and it was introduced into a separate law for the purposes of the regulation. Moreover, since the discussion was quite heated, Mr Sven Sester, Chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs, said that perhaps it would be reasonable to ask the Committee on Legal Affairs for an opinion. The following procedural decisions were taken: to put this draft on the agenda today, 10 October (consensually), second, to propose the termination of the first reading (also consensually), thirdly, to propose a deadline of 10 working days, or 17 p.m. (also consensually) on 24 October 2018, fourthly, to ask the Committee on Legal Affairs for an opinion on the draft Penal Code and procedural amendments, that is to say, the same question of systemicity, as it is based on a separate law. We will also get the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs before the second reading, and also before the Committee on Economic Affairs discusses this issue in its next session. However, outside the protocol, I say one reply. Mr Ernits has also repeatedly pointed out this issue. Indeed, in these documents, the initiator of the draft states that it is as if it is to be taken over blindly. I met with Kädd Tammik a few days ago, and I expressed my opinion that this was a failed expression. He gave me a substantive explanation, which was clearly more logical and understandable than a little bit, perhaps in a bad mood, that he had to take over blindly. I don't think that's a proper expression. We definitely don't have to take over anything blindly. If there are reasons why we have to do this, then there is a completely different story, but we certainly do not have to take over anything blindly, as the Minister actually emphasised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-10_U271	Thank you, Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Toomas Kivimägi. No questions for you. No, Peter Ernits can't ask, there are two questions. Is it procedural? I will open negotiations with representatives of the political groups. Dear colleague Peter Ernits, there are two questions. [[A voice from the hall.]] Okay. Yes, please give me a microphone for the line. [[Voices from the floor.]] Oh, right, sorry! We've got the right comments in the hall. Reception is only possible in negotiations. So, I will open negotiations with the representatives of the political groups. I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 678. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 678 amendments, including 24 October at 5 p.m. The agenda items are closed. Good night, everyone! Closure of the sitting at 5.43 p.m.
