ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Question Time. Incoming check, please! There are 30 members of the Riigikogu in Question Time. Government members, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Minister of Education and Science Mailis Reps and Minister of Defence Jüri Luik, good afternoon! I am also giving an opportunity today to ask a very specific question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U2	The first questioner is Jürgen Ligi and the first answer is Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U3	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister! In Estonia, the issue of foreign policy consensus is sometimes raised very lightly, but there is one place where it still turns out that there is no consensus. Your own party cannot be united on security issues, on NATO. The last time seven central parties were able to vote in favour of the Riigikogu's declaration of aggression against Ukraine. And one of them tried to sign up for Ukraine, the victim's responsibility. Please tell me what your message, as Prime Minister and Chairman of the Party, will be to those ambassadors whose heart is in such a different place.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U4	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Very Honourable Riigikogu! Good questioner! The Centre Party's position with regard to Ukraine is certainly uniform. Estonia's consensual foreign policy, as you rightly said, is evident in both Georgia and Ukraine. Of course we support the territorial integrity of Ukraine; we support the sovereignty of Ukraine. When it comes to this latest violation of international law, the case in Kerch Strait, it is certainly our view that these militants, as well as 23 fighters or soldiers, must be released. So that's what our positions and positions have been. The members of the Centre Party Group were among the initiators of this statement, as well as, of course, the supporters. I think that this work, which you call a consensual foreign policy towards Ukraine, has also been done through the Eastern Partnership, and it has been very important. Thanks to you, honourable Riigikogu, there was a Georgian speaker who came here at the invitation of the President of the Riigikogu. I also talked to him about this Eastern Partnership issue. Estonia, of course, wishes to continue to be an active partner and partner in sharing its experience here. Ukraine's topic was also under discussion at the last Council. As we know, both the Baltic and Nordic countries made improvements to the foreign policy part of the Council and were also adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U5	Jürgen Ligi, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U6	Thank you, Prime Minister. My question was, in fact, about these seven ambassadors. Please say something specifically to them about supporting Ukraine. But there is also a very great NATO scepticism among your constituents. You have almost monopolised the Russian electorate, and most of them, even though there is a small spike now, there is no support for Estonia's membership of NATO or, at least, for NATO troops to stay here. Please don't talk about this stump! Tell me about the fact that your main electorate minority supports NATO's stay here. Tell me what you have done to increase the support of your electorate. Do you speak vigorously in all the auditoriums about supporting Estonian foreign policy, security policy, or do you choose messages according to the auditorium?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U7	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu Jürgen Ligi. First of all, I will say once again that no members of the Centre Party, including the Group, opposed this Ukrainian statement. I think you very much want this debate so that someone will point the finger at you when we talk about foreign policy consensus and unity. Only a few weeks ago, there was a debate here in the Riigikogu where we discussed the issue of the migration framework, and unfortunately your party did not find this joint section. Now you've brought in NATO. I cannot classify the people of Estonia as our constituents or your constituents; I take everyone, 1.3 million as one. And this is important in order to maintain coherence and solidarity in Estonia. Speaking of studies, I am pleased to say that the Ministry of Defence has also commissioned a study from Turku-Study AS that shows an increase in the grant here today. First of all, 76% of respondents estimate that life in Estonia has improved or remained the same, and this is a very good increase. On the other hand, when we talk about credibility, for example, NATO's credibility has risen to 63%. If we compare it with, for example, autumn 2016, then it was 58%. Perhaps support for both NATO and the European Union has increased in Estonian society. And I think it is important for all politicians to reduce this distinction between Estonian and Russian-speaking groups.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U8	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! Three members of the Riigikogu have signed the draft decision initiated by the Free Party Group yesterday. It is precisely for these three members of the Riigikogu that Russia has also imposed a sanction, a ban on entry. This is then a proposal to the Government of the Republic to extend sanctions against Russian officials and politicians who have directly implemented or justified Kerch's aggression. Please tell me how the Centre Party intends to vote on this draft and whether, as your Prime Minister, you will personally contribute to extending sanctions.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U10	Thank you. Now I don't know exactly what level you're asking me about. If you are asking about the European Union, my position is clear. I said it both in interviews and at the table of the European Council. We last had the issue of extending sanctions there, but of course there were also countries that said that they should be extended and reviewed. I also said this on behalf of Estonia. Now, from what you asked about. When it comes to this expansion, it is very likely that it can really be called a personal extension. Looking at whether there is consensus in the European Council at present, there is no consensus. However, what I think is important is that these conclusions of the Council state that it will not rule out a return to it after a certain period of time. So that's my position, whether I'm in Brussels or in Tallinn.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U11	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U12	Answers the Minister of Education and Science Mailis Reps, asks Krista Aru. Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U13	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister! The Senate of the University of Tartu has declared that it refuses to sign an administrative contract with the Ministry. He has mentioned a number of reasons, including that the areas of performance and responsibility have not been negotiated. Of course, budgetary issues have also been raised as a reason in the next three years. Tell me where this is the reason why administrative contracts with universities are delayed. Is there a reason, in part, for the major structural changes that have hit the Ministry: the Heads of Department are changing, all the Vice Chancellors are leaving? Or is that a reason somewhere else?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U14	Thank you very much for the very timely and also for the substantive question. Indeed, today at three o'clock begins to give the last little touch to compromise-words, because all six universities and the ministry will hopefully meet at a very round table. Why has it taken time? 160 million is a lot of money, and this agreement means a very, very big responsibility. Let's just say that the first round is full: universities have also become smarter to want in administrative contracts, which they do not. For example, we have just finished a very thorough discussion of the details with representatives of the Rector and Rector of the University of Tartu. We really looked through the nuances, the decimals. What is the state of play with the University of Tartu, for example? The question was not that the Senate would have said that it would not sign, but pointed out a number of observations. I am very optimistic, and I believe that today, at the end of the Rectors' Council meeting, just before five o'clock, we will be able to reach the point where the Government of the Republic will be able to give a mandate to the Minister of Education, who will be there with the draft administrative contracts. Could this process have been accelerated? I have to say, probably not. As soon as some sort of compromise wording was found with one university, it concerned another university and therefore the wording had to be re-examined with the previous university. There are probably some other things that are crucial for the University of Tartu to be renegotiated with other universities today.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U15	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U16	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister! I understand from your reply that the restructuring processes that have taken place in the Ministry and which have allegedly destroyed the entire working mood of the Ministry have not, in your opinion, prevented administrative agreements with universities. But what is the reason? On the one hand, you award the Chancellor a very high prize of EUR 8200 and, on the other hand, we hear that the Deputy Chancellors and Head of Department leave the Ministry and the staff of the Ministry are very dissatisfied with the atmosphere prevailing in the Ministry of Education and Research. Where is this reason, and what are the consequences? Why is there such a working spirit in the ministry?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U17	Thank you. First of all, the issue of administrative contracts is almost impossible to summarise in two minutes. But where universities have their own concerns, I have to draw at one point more widely here in the Riigikogu, probably also during the next composition. They would like to see a steady increase in the budget, because the three-year management agreement with the status quo automatically means that additional resources will have to be obtained from somewhere else, or much must be cut off from the inside. If, in this context, we are putting the university with very large, ambitious objectives in an administrative contract, this raises questions. For the following year, the management agreement provides for an increase of just under EUR 5 million, but their expectation in the budget negotiations was 15 million. That is what we are now specifying. For example, the Faculty of Economics and Business Administration of the University of Tartu has also developed a discussion. On the one hand, the OSKA report says that this education needs to be reduced, but on the other hand, the university itself has given very convincing reasons why there may still be little need for Estonia to reduce its proportion. So that's all these nuances. As far as the Chancellor of the Ministry of Education and Research and the whole matter of leadership are concerned, I have made it very clear that the Ministry of Education and Research is carrying out normal work, our departments and people are competent. I'm convinced that people are doing their job the best way. But there have been personal communication problems, and we all have, of course, to say that these facts and accusations have been very serious. They must therefore also be dealt with very seriously.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U18	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U19	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! I rather think, as some have said in today's newspaper, that this is a quiet move to Tallinn by the Ministry. This goes absolutely against the communication that has come from the government that we are taking jobs out of the capital. But I also have a question about contracts. The Reform Party has also made proposals in this hall for learning in Estonian in kindergarten and school. Perhaps, however, less attention has been paid to the way in which it is possible to study in Estonian at higher education institutions now and in the future in the light of these agreements, or in what way these agreements contain possible Estonian-language education in higher education and how the Estonian-language scientific language is protected in our country.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U20	Thank you. First of all, a good questioner, I can assure you once again that the Ministry will not move from Tartu to Tallinn. The Ministry is located on Munga Street in Tartu, and to confirm my words, I can invite you to the Tartu Ministry House. There's been a very decent repair, and it looks really great. People feel good out there, the house is full of people. They're working very competently and well, and they're looking forward to your visit. So the answer is no: the ministry does not move, despite the opinion that has arisen. This whole matter of moving is about one department, and I understand that there is also a lot of emotion in relation to this one department. But, yeah, I'll tell you again, the ministry isn't moving. We don't have moving cars in front of the house. On the contrary, such a Tartu-centric concept has been established. Now, how do we see an opportunity to provide education in Estonian at higher education institutions? It is very strongly written in administrative contracts. Did you notice what the Senate of the University of Tartu brought out? He pointed out that they felt that this expectation was too strong: the development of the Estonian scientific language, the dictionary and everything else that we have talked about in relation to the teaching of the Estonian language. We have a number of points here, for example, where we have foreign students, if the curriculum is in part or in full English, so that there would also be compulsory education in Estonian. This has also been a very clear expectation for this house, the Riigikogu, but the universities are concerned because it is a very large additional obligation for them. This has also caused some tension within universities: philologists and supporters of Estonian are very supportive of the increase in the number of Estonian languages, while others are concerned about funding. So this discussion has been transferred to administrative contracts, which have a number of points that confirm it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U21	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U22	The Secretary of Defense Jüri Luik answers, asking for Henn Põlluaas. Please, Henn Põllamaas!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U23	Thank you. Estonia is about to acquire a new anti-tank system. Today, new, so-called fifth generation systems are already in use, with a large number of very important advantages in front of the fourth generation systems, which unfortunately cannot be counted here. However, the conditions set out in the procurement rule out substantive competition and the possibility of providing the fifth generation of systems, as the main factor was the cost-effectiveness rather than efficiency and capacity. As you can imagine, the only bidder and winner was the one offering the fourth generation of missiles. The procurement will take place for 25 years, but in five or ten years there may not be Russian tanks that Spike-LR, which the winner of the procurement, can destroy. Why are we buying day-to-day systems to meet tomorrow's defence needs? Whose interest is that?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U24	Thank you. Clearly, if we imagine our conceivable opponent, then his strength is a very important element of armoured technology. And, of course, it is clear that a country like Estonia must be equipped with anti-tank weapons. Indeed, in this case we are buying a long-distance tank control system. The parameters of this system, we will never tender for a particular company, but we will present the parameters of what kind of weapon we need, the Defence Forces have developed. I know that the Commander-in-Chief of the Defence Forces, Major-General Herem, also attended the National Defence Committee yesterday, who spoke in more detail about this than we could talk about today. These conditions have been declared to be met by a company with which negotiations are only now starting. In this sense, the offer is two-step. In the case of this company, one of the bases for negotiations is which missiles will arrive at us at the moment when the supply begins. We can also buy modern fifth-generation missiles from the same company. This dispute, which missile is better and which missile is worse, must remain with the specialists. As you yourself said, there are so many technical details. I'm completely trusting the military judgment here.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U25	Henn Põllaas, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U26	Thank you. These fifth-generation missiles are not even in production yet. But do you know that the new Russian tank Armata T-14 has developed an active armor and measures against the fourth generation Spike-LR that we are currently obtaining? That makes it impossible to destroy the T-14 from above. Since the opponents have failed to start the production of T-14 in the expected volume, it has initially been decided to produce more T-90s, which will be supplied with these same countermeasures. It is only a matter of time before the production of T-14 is also started. Therefore, we do not need to acquire fourth generation missiles with more than ten years of technology, but an effective fifth generation anti-tank system that already exists on the market and which would also be able to destroy modern Russian tanks. I ask you again: why do we get this old anti-tank system that doesn't meet our real defence needs?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U27	Thank you. As I said, these criteria have been developed on the basis of the operational needs of Estonia and the people involved in this, i.e. the senior command of the Defence Forces, is very clear that these missiles meet the needs. But I would like to stress once again that the company is now considered to be a suitable bidder, and phase two is still coming. As far as the claims on Armata and T-90 are concerned, the Armatas we've only seen once. That was when Armata stopped in the Red Square and the Russian Federation had to carry it away with a truck relatively awkwardly. In this sense, no missile has been tested on these hypothetical possibilities of Armata. And this missile has technical properties such that it is possible to choose between very many variants of how to destroy a particular tank. Clearly, I can't go back to some technical details.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U28	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U29	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! There is also much information that these Spike-type anti-tank missiles have failed, for example in Syria, in the fight against Russian tanks. And yet it amazes me that a procurement will be opened where one company will not be able, on the basis of so-called international information, to exceed what the Russians have done to protect its tanks and will not be invited to another competing bidder. Wouldn't it be better to look at the specialists for a moment here and ask if the information these specialists have provided is correct?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U30	Thank you. First of all, as Estonian Minister of Defence, I can rely on the Estonian experts' assessments. I cannot rely on the technical proposals offered by the competing company. I think that should be very clear. Secondly, the offer was not made to a specific company, but submitted specific minimum requirements. Any company in the world that produces anti-tank missiles could have participated in this competition. Of course, we regret that there was only one bidder, but that is now a fact. As far as the EuroSpike missile is concerned, it is being used on a massive scale in the world. It is used on a massive scale in a large number of European countries, as well as in many other countries. Missile prototypes come from Israel. I think we can imagine that Israel, as a constantly warring country, knows for its part what it is doing. As for the fact that sometimes the tank is successful in front of the missile and sometimes the missile is successful in front of the tank, it is already linked to a specific battle situation. So, of course, I cannot say anything here against or in favour of such a general remark. I believe that these are some specific cases on the basis of which the effectiveness of this anti-tank weapon cannot be assessed in any way.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U31	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U32	Answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, asks Arto Aas. Please, Arto Aas!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U33	Thank you. Good Prime Minister, first of all, a peaceful Christmas for you and your family! Now let's get down to business. We see what is happening in the economy and these signals are not very optimistic: the growth forecast is negative, while at the same time there has been very high price growth and increased envelope wages and also relative poverty. This has all taken place against the background of the income tax system introduced by your government. At the same time, the tax administration's study says that 52% of people think the tax system is unfair, they estimate it to be worse, and 59% regard today's income tax system as incomprehensible. The finance minister of your government has said that people are stupid themselves if they don't understand this 6,000-grade tax model. I ask if you agree with the Minister for Finance of your government that people are to blame if they do not understand the structure of taxes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U34	Thank you. You are putting in front of everything a huge number of very important statements, which are half-sisters and which need to be overturned, and finally you are asking the question about the Minister of Finance. In any case, I believe the people of Estonia. I think the principle of 'vox populi, vox dei' is correct and must be based on it. I'll start by wishing you a nice Christmas time, too. Good Arto, you and I have worked together here in the Riigikogu. I believe that it is Christmas months that could bring more positivity, more visibility and more support. You brought out very black pictures, half-sister pictures. But we will take the same study of the Ministry of Defence: 76% of the Estonian population says that life in Estonia has improved or remained the same. This is indeed a glad tiding, as Mr Peep Aru says from around Viljandi. That's good! In any case, I support it. When it comes to this reform of the tax-free minimum, it really was a fundamental change in the current government coalition in order for those who earn low or average wages to increase their net income. The government raised the minimum tax-free income to 500 euros. This means that the income of hundreds of thousands of people has increased. The majority of Estonians won the income tax reform. We see nowhere what you said that growth is negative. No, it's not. Growth of 3%, 3.5% or 3.2% is expected for the next period.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U35	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U36	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Prime Minister! I have to admit, I was a little upset and insulted by the statement made by the Minister of Finance. It would be like demanding the Prime Minister's ability to play a saxophone that he probably can't do. But what worries me is that when we talk about a fair country and helping the poor, relative poverty growth and taxation of working pensioners are actually talking about the opposite direction. I have tried several times to get an answer from you to the question of why the current government has made a system where government members actually pay less tax than working pensioners. Why is that?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U37	Thank you for this question. First of all, I think it's half the victory, and you're also stating the fact that people are talking about a fair country. And that's true. People want confidence. They want unity, reduction and reduction of inequalities. I also dare say that, in fact, no one in Estonian society can be told that he is somehow less valuable. Why am I saying it's half a win? Because a fair country must not only be told to everyone, as you have mentioned, but action must also be taken here. And the current government has really made a real effort to reduce inequality in Estonian society and increase the confidence of the Estonian people. Now, if you come up with more pensions, I'm totally in agreement with your case. We cannot be satisfied with the current size of pensions. But it doesn't give me any confidence that a party says that the sun will continue to rise in the morning and set in the evening. I am referring to the fact that the pension could rise around 200 euros during the next Riigikogu cycle. We know that, thanks to indexation, the pension will rise either way: next year it will increase by 7.6% according to the budget that you have approved. But I don't think that's enough, Mr. Kruuse. And the truth is, if you're going to support the idea of an extraordinary pension rise, we're on the same side as you. Our party has said that this increase (indexation plus extraordinary pension increases) should be EUR 100 by 2020. And if you join this idea, we will have one of the supporting members of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U38	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U39	Thank you. Let me make it clear that I did not use half-truths, but I referred to Eesti Pank, Statistics Estonia and the tax administration. I believe you respect these institutions. These examples show that envelope wages are increasing and that relative poverty is increasing, among other things. The inequality is increasing, and this is the result of your tax system, which encourages the growth of inequality, which is sad in fact. I come back from this inequality to injustice and ask for your assessment. Do you think it is fair that people who receive a performance bonus at the end of the year, who have made more efforts, will be subject to a higher tax rate? Or is it fair that people who are unemployed at the end of the year and receive their redundancy money are put on a tax axe next spring? They have temporarily increased revenues, even though they are unemployed next year at the moment they have to pay the State an additional tax. Do you think that's fair?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U40	Dear Arto Aas, I respect you very much. If I'm not mistaken, you're a real school boy and you've graduated from Tallinn University of Technology. So you should have had it with the knowledge of science, including mathematics. When you talk about the growth of relative poverty, you must admit that you are speaking not half-truths but lies. According to this survey, relative poverty grew in 2017, and you know very well that this good reform of the tax-free minimum for hundreds of thousands of people began on 1 January 2018. So you're going to produce this study and you're going to put it in comparison to the increase in the tax-free minimum. That was what had to be done, Mr Aas, in order to reduce the proportion of relative poverty in society, and whether the rise in the tax-free minimum has reduced poverty, left it at the same level or increased it, we will not know until next year when the number is 2019. So the data must be compared in the right time and space and comparable data can still be compared, not so that, on the one hand, we take 2017 and then arbitrarily put it together with 2018. That's where the half-sisters come from. I'm sorry to say this, but in this case it was a completely wrong sentence, a completely wrong comparison of these things cannot be compared.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U41	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U42	Jüri Luik, Secretary of Defense, asks Ain Lutsepp. Please, Ain Lutsepp!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U43	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, The Ministry of Defence is obliged to ensure the military defence of Estonia. Monitoring the surrounding airspace is an important part of this. Tracking the surrounding airspace with radar is an important security tool for us and our allies. It's about Aid's wind farm. The Ministry of Defence expects Aidu wind farm to cease illegal construction activities, which have continued despite the court's decision to suspend the building permit. What is the state of affairs now, and what are further developments?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U44	Thank you. Indeed, the Building Code has given the Minister for Defence the responsibility to coordinate such constructions precisely on the basis of the considerations you mentioned. Perhaps construction must in no way hinder the work of technical equipment that gives us information about what is happening around us. We have not given this coordination. This coordination was supervised by the county government, and now the Ministry of Justice is going to trial. The court will discuss this issue and the hearings have not yet been completed, no decision has been given. So there are no major changes in that sense. It is true that the court has suspended the construction of Aidu wind farm until the final judgment of the court.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U45	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U46	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, Aid's wind farm has offered a new technological solution to the blades of windmills. They're supposed to be the ones that don't stop the radar from working. What is the established position of the Ministry of Defence, or do you have information on whether, in fact, the solution proposed by Aidu wind farm might not interfere with radar operations?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U47	Thank you. Unfortunately, in our opinion, all types of wind generators used to generate wind power are interfering with the operation of their respective equipment, radars and a technical solution that avoids this is still not invented. Also, the technical solutions proposed by the creators of Aidu wind farm do not do this in any way. So, unfortunately, the solution proposed by them is not appropriate.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U48	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U49	Good Chairman! Good minister! Increasing the practical defence capabilities is essential, both in our neighbouring countries and in the security situation that has developed elsewhere. This, of course, is to be done with exercises. Estonia expands and creates conditions through investments, for example by developing experimental polygons. At the same time, we can see that, even if it is understood that the Defence Forces need more territory and areas covered by decent investments, both local authorities and local residents are unfortunately in opposition. Let me give you an example of Võru. What conclusions has the Ministry of Defence drawn in cooperation with local authorities? Are you changing or changing any tactics and attitudes? Please enlighten us on the cooperation with local authorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U50	Thank you. Our goal is always to reach an agreement with the local government. When we talk about the Võru case, for example, Tara's barracks, which are located in the centre of the city, are a very important element in the development of the Võru municipality area. So these objects are generally viewed positively. In this case, it is indeed a situation in which we want to expand our territory somewhat in order to ensure that mobilisation vehicles are parked. As you know, the Estonian Defence Forces are a reserve force whose activities are therefore very much based on mobilisation, which must be guaranteed by technology. We are negotiating with the Võru City Government and there is hope that we can reach an agreement. There are a number of options under discussion, but I am not going to explain them in detail here, as negotiations are still under way. But I don't think we'd cause any kind of trouble to the Võru City Government.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U51	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U52	Answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, asks Jaak Madison. Please, Jaak Madison!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U53	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Prime Minister! The circle is coming to an end, we are rapidly approaching the new elections, and I think it is a good time to start looking at what promises have been made and which are not. The main electoral promise of the Central Party of 2015 was a minimum wage of EUR 1000 for everyone. You have a very nice and lovely election promise from the Social Democratic Party, which everyone likes, was 800 euros minimum wage. We're about to get an arithmetic average of 900 euros. You have been in government for over two years and by spring you have been the leading government party for most of this time in the Riigikogu. By that logic, this election promise should have been implemented. So, for what reasons have you not implemented this election promise? This year's minimum wage will continue to be EUR 500 and for the coming year it will be only EUR 540.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U54	Mr Madison, first of all, thank you for this question. It is true that wage increases have been extremely important for the current government coalition in a number of important sectors. On the basis of your approved budget for next year too, the minimum wage for teachers will rise from EUR 1150 to EUR 1250. I cannot say that I am even more happy about this, but the step in the right direction is that we see that the teachers' average salary is going to be EUR 1 500. I think it is a good thing that you raised this issue of pay, because it has really been very important to the Centre Party throughout the entire cycle of the Riigikogu, both in the opposition and in the coalition. Take, for example, grades in the fields of rescue and police, social affairs, social welfare, veterinary matters. There, people hadn't seen a raise for a very, very long time. In order for us to be able to further develop our e-state, maintain and further develop this infrastructure, infrastructure, it has been right to raise wages in the information technology sector. These have all been important areas. When it comes to the minimum wage, I think it is certainly the right direction that both parties, both employers and employees, see an even faster increase in the minimum wage in society. This, of course, must come from growth, productivity growth and efficiency gains. The minimum wage is currently not EUR 1000, but this year it will be EUR 500 and next year it will be more than EUR 500. So the Centre Party will definitely continue to work towards this goal.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U55	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U56	Thank you. There certainly is no better master in demagogy than you, Prime Minister, because I asked about the minimum wage, not about the wage increases in certain sectors. The fact that the number of people living in relative poverty has increased as of last year certainly proves your concern for wages and people. As you know, in November 2016, you became a government and you also had the opportunity to redefine the state budget, to shape it in your own image. As a result, we have about 300,000 people who have to live in relative poverty in the country you manage. 'A fair state for all', according to your understanding, also means that the award of a EUR 8200 performance fee to one Chancellor of the Ministry of Education and Research is very fair to him, but certainly not to those who earn a minimum wage of EUR 500 per month. At the same time, the results of this Chancellor's work, for which he receives this money, are very interesting: most of the Ministry's top management have had to leave because of his style of work. Is this your understanding of 'Affordable country for all', when some will receive EUR 8200 for non-existent performance and others will earn EUR 500?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U57	Thank you. Honourable member of the Riigikogu, I'm based on what you're asking. You asked me about the election promises. The Centre Party has not promised any chancellor a one-off, double, or higher performance fee. We are talking about the day-to-day work done by the people and minister of the Ministry, and what kind of reward someone gets is a ministerial decision. However, I did prepare seriously for your question of electoral promises and their fulfilment, and I found a very positive nuance. Above all, I would like to say to the voters of the EKRE that you can be sure that many of your promises have been made. The Centre Party has stood for this, and I am glad that you have put them on the table. For example, your promise has been to increase transitional payments in agriculture. If you remember, these top-ups were dealt with by the current Riigikogu in the first half of its work when they were zero in the budget. Now they're at the maximum. Let us take the next increase in the income base of local governments, which has been a clear priority for the current government. We will take further details, such as bringing cargo ships under the Estonian flag. This has always been the goal of the Centre Party and we have fulfilled it. Yeah, you've been on the same page lately. After all, you have said that the tax-free minimum must be raised to the same level as the minimum wage. In 2018, the income tax free minimum is EUR 500 and the minimum wage is also EUR 500. And I am pleased that in my opinion, the Riigikogu has also taken the first step in the interests of pension reform, so that working in the first pillar of the pension can become a much larger area of support.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U58	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U59	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable Prime Minister, about your last reply: start believing what the press has said about the EKRE and the Centre Party being two different buttocks, but one asshole. That's not my quote. You spoke of the importance of election promises. I agree with that. The extraordinary pension increase has already been an election promise of the Central Party once. I'm trying to understand and understand why we should believe that next time it will come true. You know very well, as it was clear from the answers to previous questions here, that pension increases depend very much on the economic environment of Estonia's entrepreneurs and economy, and how our income is growing. The current tax system and its continuation says one thing: teachers are also becoming very rich and have to pay more taxes, but we know that the teachers' average income is not yet what they really deserve. How can your words be credible if you have been in government for two years and have not put this extraordinary pension increase into practice?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U60	Thank you. You put so many things together now, but let's start over. First of all, with whom does the Centre Party make the government? I will tell you once again that there is no point in sharing what cannot be shared right now. Whoever wins the election will be announced on 3 March. I don't know who's gonna win the election. I'm working to get the Central Party to win this election. And you said quite rightly: our position is 'Affordable state for all' in order for solidarity to increase, inequality to decrease, confidence to increase. But the decision is made by the highest power, which is the people of Estonia. Who's the coalition going to be made with? The Reform Party has been saying for ten years that they will not cooperate with the Centre Party. I have made it clear that when it comes to those political forces whose supreme power chooses the Riigikogu, I think it is very wrong to exclude anyone. But I've also said that if anyone talks about taking their heads off, I can't go any further with the cooperation. Now I come back to the pensions that you asked about and on which we really do have a very specific position in the forthcoming elections. Looking further, the person does not come out with the current average old-age pension, especially when the person lives alone. Here we need state support and help for an extraordinary pension rise. I fully agree with you that this is based in many ways on the economic environment, and here we must thank Estonian companies. After all, Estonian companies have shown very good results. We take the last, the third quarter of this year's economic growth was 4.2%. And this growth must be inclusive: it must reach every person in Estonia, every household in Estonia, in my opinion. We have to work on that.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U61	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U62	Andres Herkel now asks and answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U63	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! In order to make better use of EU structural funds, the Government of the Republic is able to apply for one exception. The content of this derogation is that Estonia is divided into two regions, one of which is the most developed capital region and the other is the hinterland, where we all understand that socio-economic development there is far from the same level. Many of the countries of the European Union that have joined us at the same time have made such a distribution, applied for such treatment and received the corresponding derogation. My question is this: why has the Government of the Republic not requested such an exception? I am thinking already of the negotiations on the upcoming period 2021/2027.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U64	Thank you for this question. I must say that the current government has certainly discussed this twice, if not more, at the meeting of the cabinet. It has clearly been a question of why we have not taken the opportunity to divide Estonia into two regions when we are talking about the European Union's cohesion policy and also about the distribution of euro money. And there is really such a presumption on the table that, if Estonia were divided into two regions, we would be able to receive more subsidies, especially outside the capital. Now, if you give me a very brief answer within this two minutes, it's like this. In the current negotiations on the European Union's long-term budget, this would not change anything, as it is based on the regional distribution adopted in 2013. The division of Estonia into two regions would mean that virtually no investments could be made in the Tallinn region through European Union grants. This would concern hospitals and educational establishments, or schools, and certainly the business sector. The implementation of reforms such as labour reform would also become much, much more difficult.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U65	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U66	Thank you, Prime Minister. However, other countries have taken advantage of this possibility and, in general, practice shows that more structural support is possible in this case. Due to the logic of your response, I also have a very simple question: has the fact that the Centre Party is in power in Tallinn set a limit for you and that is why you have abandoned this request?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U67	No.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U68	Enn Meri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U69	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! One argument which has been used against regionalisation is that the region must have at least 800000 inhabitants. But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, for example, both small countries and Luxembourg are divided into two regions. Shouldn't we still be seeking to divide it into two regions? We have a lot to win, and there's nothing to lose, it doesn't cost anything.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U70	Thank you again. I will explain the answer to Mr Herkel's first question in addition to that. Firstly, these debates should have taken place much earlier. The current government seized the bull, and as I said, it is clear that the base has been taken since 2013. We couldn't do this one way or another. When we talk about the period 2021 to 2027, Estonia cannot be divided into two or this probability is extremely low. Now on, the next question is if we bring in only one criterion: this is the amount of money. With its 45000 square kilometres and 1.3 million inhabitants, would Estonia then receive more or less funds from the European Union? Can't be as sure as you say, good questioner. I think you said such a hypothesis that many people estimate that Estonia could receive more subsidies. As I said, this may mean that, for example, the Helsinki Metropolitan Area will be completely deprived of subsidies. He will no longer receive subsidies for these same medical facilities, hospitals and schools. And it may also happen that there is no capacity to transport or co-finance projects and their preparation in regions outside the capital. So by the end of the day, we can get the opposite result and, in fact, these subsidies are much lower. This does not mean that if we are talking not about the next budget period, but about the next budget period, we should not seriously discuss whether the division of Estonia into several regions would pay off or not. This discussion must be kept on the table in any case.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U71	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U72	Asks Mart Helme, answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. I'm sure there's one question I can ask you. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U73	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! In addition to Madison's question, I just want to say that it's great that you're putting our ideas into practice. But on the other hand, it shows that you just don't have your ideas. So I'm glad you're putting our ideas into practice. This also confirms Tõnis Saarts' claim in yesterday's Postimees that the EKRE dictates the agenda of Estonian politics. But my question is different. We asked you for time to accept the almost 18,000 signatures we have collected against the Marrakesh compact. It should be signed today by our ambassador without any mandate or authority. When do you want to see us so we can hand these signatures over to you?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U74	Thank you. There are false claims on both of your questions. Let's start with that first one. This has been the case for years in Estonian politics that political parties come into Estonian politics and say that they support, for example, the President's direct election and the increase in incomes of people with lower wages through an increase in the tax-free minimum. And it's good to be able to find more allies. We'll take the same increase in domestic security, saviors' and police's wages. In any case, I do not understand why Estonia's politics must always have the principle that it is in opposition and that it is in the coalition that there are different sides. Why can't both of us at one point see that solving some issues is good for the Estonian state and this is the right direction? Let's take these same top-ups, subsidies in agriculture. I'm sorry, but I remember the Centre Party really talked about them as part of the XII, let alone this composition. You rightly said that then EKRE did not even exist in the Riigikogu. I will now answer your second question on these signatures. I got the information that you wanted to hand over these signatures. That was last week after Question Time, I don't think I'm wrong. I went to the EKRE Group in the Riigikogu and said that I would accept these signatures. Your clerk told me you didn't have the media ready and you can't hand them over yet. So you're in a hurry. You want to do-do-do yourself, but give your good colleagues in the EKRE Group time to prepare these things. I went to your group and it said that there were no signatures yet. Well, what am I gonna take if they're not here yet? Good Mart, have a nice Christmas time anyway! Here's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U75	I will conclude on this issue. Thank you, Prime Minister. Thank you, Minister of Education and Science. Thank you, Secretary of Defense. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U76	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the session of the 12th working week of this House on Wednesday. In a situation where five working weeks of the plenary session are left until the end of the Riigikogu's work, does anyone else wish to pass on questions and drafts? Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U77	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, I will hand over the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the proposal to the Government of the Republic to correct errors in the planning law. The law of planning is one of the examples of very poor legislation. We have had regrettable contact with this during the entire working period of this Riigikogu. This law came into force in July 2015, and today it has resulted in a number of very bad consequences. One of the most important or best known examples is the saga of the pulp mill. The way a private company received a special plan and what happened with that special plan, we all know. But there are still many shortcomings in this law. One could mention, among other things, that when this law came into being, the aim was to become a simpler and clearer law, but the result is that there came a much more complicated law. If there were 47 paragraphs in law before, there are now 143 paragraphs here. All kinds of public debates, which worked very well during the previous law, decreased as a result of the new law, etc. Me and five other members of the Riigikogu will hand over the draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U78	Thomas Paur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U79	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! On behalf of nine members of the Riigikogu, I hand over the draft law amending the Fisheries Act with an explanatory memorandum. The purpose of the draft law is to improve the conditions for fishing and the availability of fish caught by consumers and to reduce the environmental risks associated with fishing on Lake Peipsi, Lämmi- ja Pihkva. At present, the allocation of fishing opportunities on Lake Peipsi, Lämmi- ja Pihkva is based on historical fishing rights, i.e. the number of fishing gears.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U80	Thank you! Dear Riigikogu, I have adopted two drafts. I dare say to you that if someone will also hand over the draft at the last session of the Riigikogu plenary session, the Bureau will, without any doubt, appoint a commission to do so, but at the same time I must say that the parties have the right to submit draft decisions that impose obligations on the Government of the Republic. Thank you. Incoming check, please! 82 members of the Riigikogu are present.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U81	The first item on the agenda is the third reading of the draft law amending the Law on Credit Institutions and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. The commission has proposed a final vote. There's a request. Please react more quickly! Jürgen Ligi, on behalf of the Reform Party Group. [[???J. Ligi kohalt: 'Ma reageerisin välkkiirelt!'???]] Even faster than lightning is needed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U82	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, However, after perhaps a slow start, the Reform Party Group has decided that it will vote against this draft. This decision really did not come easily or at the first moment. We have debated this in the Committee on Monetary Affairs and in the Group. We are concerned about point 7 of the draft, which we believe has gone overboard. Why haven't we said it so strongly before? The reason, of course, is that the reputation of credit institutions has recently suffered enormously. The international fight against money laundering and financial crime is extremely topical. This particular text also remained in this noise for us, but we have been discussing it. I am talking about this point 7, which amends § 48 (2) of the Act. It is about integrity in reputation and who can be chosen or appointed as the head of a credit institution. Here's a vague phrase like questioning the existence of an inexplicable reputation. Mention is made of a person who has been convicted of an offence, whether guilty or suspected, or otherwise involved in an offence. In whatever way the connection with any of these offences seems to change a person's fate for life. After all, guilt does not necessarily mean crime; most of the offences are misdemeanors. Reading this text shows that if, for example, a person has crossed the road in the wrong place, as head of a financial institution, he or she will be disdained for life. This is an extremely strange and cruel attitude. It is strange even that the Chancellor of Justice has not intervened as he intervened in the protection of personal data. I'm reading here, for example, that I don't fit for any reason other than that I've committed some traffic offences, not much, but I've also been a witness in a real criminal case, I've been involved in a criminal case in a financial institution. I've started this case myself, and people have gone to prison since then, but my involvement with it is a lifetime. This text says that my actions can be vetoed in the future because of this event in my life. We really cannot do anything with this text now but vote against it. We discussed and listened to the draft authors, but there were no very good explanations about what this means in real life. We really think this thing needs to be reworded. Obviously, all these business bans and driving bans should be taken as a bigger picture, the commercial code should be taken up and we should see why our bankruptcy law is so cruel that it creates such a business language. It has been written to us by the OECD that we need to relax the rules here. But on the line of credit institutions, this text is really over the top, and we dare to show our attitude by voting against it. We gave the government a mandate or we asked that when the next amendment of this law comes, that this paragraph be amended, but now it still attaches to the problem, that any involvement in any case of guilt can be ruled out. This seems to be an obvious exaggeration, and I do not think we should approve of this kind of failure, regardless of what the general climate is, thinking about money laundering and the reputation of credit institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U83	On behalf of the faction of the Mikhail Stalnukhin Central Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U84	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Not in relation to this bill, but in the past, I spoke here that expressions such as 'unblemished reputation' are absolutely inappropriate when it comes to legislation. We've already discussed this. In the Committee on Monetary Affairs, we have even found out that there are 24 laws on the basis of Estonian legislation, which include the term 'unblemished reputation'. When we had a discussion at first reading of this bill, I told the representative of the Government of the Republic that, despite the fact that 23 laws already have such a concept as 'unblemished reputation', but from this committee, this draft does not go on if that term remains in the text, because the law must not contain subjective assessments. 'Infamous reputation' is totally unacceptable. The Ministry of Finance thought he did a great job and found a formula for how to replace it. This means that we discussed the 'inexplicable reputation' in preparing for the first reading, we discussed the exact same thing before the second reading, and we came back to it before the third reading. For what reason? It is just that some Members of the Commission did not pay attention to what we were doing. Before the third reading, we again discussed the same 7th point for about 40 minutes, and I asked for a complete verbatim. It is in the EMS, eight pages, you can read how this debate took place. We were either willing to interrupt reading or to correct this expression if we had found some way of doing so if an interested group had offered a normal formulation that could have replaced what was available, but it did not exist. It turns out we don't like this formulation, but we don't know or we just haven't thought about what to replace it with. We talked for a very long time about how we will proceed with this bill in the future. The proposal was that there would be another project relating to the law on credit institutions during its membership, and when we are ready by then, we will change this point with one amendment. But as long as it's not, what's now in as a change is still better than this "unblemished reputation." That's what we went on with. Just didn't have the material, there was nothing concrete to replace it with. I wouldn't have come here to tell you this if it wasn't for 51 votes. I'm trying to explain to you right now that there can't be an ideal definition from the start if you don't have what to propose. The definition does not become perfect in itself. It is only because of this to oppose it, even as it does not meet our profession. We have to look for a better formulation, and we'll find it. We have already asked whether this is contrary to the Constitution, as it is claimed, or not. We received one answer from the Treasury Department. They found no contradiction. This letter is also in the e.M.S. So my proposal is that we support this bill, however, bearing in mind that there are 24 laws in Estonia, not only this law, but 24 laws that need to be amended, from there it needs to be taken out of the 'unblemished reputation' and put something normal in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U85	Priit Sibul on behalf of the Isamaa Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U86	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, I'll be brief. I cannot agree with a good colleague, Jürgen Ligi. In my opinion, this wording is not as absolute and categorizing as it is intended to be. Secondly, we tried to find the right solution in the Commission on several occasions. As the chairman of the committee said, this long verbatim is accessible to everyone. Even before the first reading, the chairman of the committee himself raised the exact same problem. With the people of the Ministry of Finance, we then tried to find a reasonable solution to this impeccable reputation. This wording, which, I must admit, is not ideal, reflects the wisdom that was in the Committee on Monetary Affairs at the time. There was no better. Even before completing the second reading, I also proposed in the Commission that, if there is a need and we can find a solution, we remove this draft from the agenda of this House, as was the draft amendment to the Income Tax Act that I led to 705, which we managed to do nicely in the committee. However, in the committee, where there were also representatives of the Reform Party Group, we were not convinced that we would be able to find a better wording in that time, and that is why we decided that we would not remove this draft from the agenda. I dare say that there was always goodwill in the Commission to change it. The third topic that Jürgen once touched. True, I think we have more agreement on the substance here than we appear today. This is the subject of bankruptcy: if the person has either caused bankruptcy or participated in the management of a company or has managed a company that has gone bankrupt. In this draft, we do not in any way concern or influence this regulation, because it has already been defined in exactly this way in law in the past. No party was involved in the proceedings in order to change anything. So I, too, dare to call for this draft to be supported even if the wording does not seem ideal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U87	There is no further wish for negotiations. I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the Committee on Monetary Affairs is a final vote of 750 on the draft. Attention please, honourable Riigikogu. Since the draft 750 requires a majority of the Riigikogu's membership to be adopted as a law, we will do a check-in, please! The assembly shall have 83 members. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Credit Institutions Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic 750. Please take a stand and vote. There were 51 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft 750 acts, 30 against and no abstentions. The law amending the Law on Credit Institutions and other laws has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U88	The third reading of draft law 642 amending the Penal Code initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws (transposition of the Anti-terrorism Directive). I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. Let's go to the final vote. With your permission, we will report the vote more quickly than usual, I think it is appropriate. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Penal Code initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws 642. Please take a stand and vote. 74 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of adopting the Bill as a law, 5 against, no abstentions. The law amending the Penal Code and related amendments to other laws has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U89	Third reading of the draft Act amending the Law on the Protection of Animals, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. I'm closing the negotiations. Let's go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Law on Animal Protection initiated by the Government of the Republic 734. Please take a stand and vote. 71 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of adopting Bill 734 as a law, against 4, with one abstention. The Law amending the Law on Animal Protection has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U90	Third reading of draft Act 641 amending labour market services and grants initiated by the Government of the Republic and other laws. I will open negotiations at third reading. There's no call. On a proposal from the Commission, we will have a final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending labour market services and grants initiated by the Government of the Republic and other laws 641. Please take a stand and vote. 71 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of adopting Bill 641 as a law, 5 against, no abstentions. The Act amending the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act and other laws has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U91	Extension of the term for the use of the Defence Forces by the Riigikogu, submitted by the Government of the Republic, in the performance of the international obligations of the Estonian State on the European Union military mission EUNAVFOR Med/Sophia, second reading. The rapporteur is Mr Ain Lutsepp, Member of the National Defence Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U92	Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft was submitted by the Government of the Republic on 5 November. The first reading also took place on 21 November. No amendments to the draft were tabled outside the Committee on National Defence by the deadline for the submission of the amendments, including 3 December at 5.15 p.m. The Committee on National Defence unanimously tabled one amendment to the draft, linking the draft to the extension of the mandate of the Council of the European Union to the EUNAVFOR Med/Sophia mission. Thus, according to the draft Riigikogu, the Defence Forces are authorised to continue to participate in the EUNAVFOR Med/Sophia mission, provided that it is based on the mandate of the Council of the European Union. On 14 December 2018, the Political and Security Committee, composed of ambassadors from the Member States of the European Union, discussed EUNAVFOR Med/Sophia's mission on 14 December 2018, which proposed to the Council of the European Union that the mandate of the mission be extended for an initial period of three months. The Council of the European Union should endorse this decision this week or at the latest next week. On the advice of the language editor, the National Defence Committee made a few linguistic clarifications in paragraph 1 concerning the depreciation of words and deleted the word 'in composition'. Due to the amendment proposed by the Committee on National Defence, the word 'expand' in the first sentence of point 1 of the draft is now a small letter. The amendments, including linguistic specifications, are underlined in the draft text. Officials of the Ministry of Defence representing the author of the draft act supported the amendment proposed by the National Defence Commission, as well as linguistic corrections and clarifications. At its meeting on 17 December this year, the Committee on National Defence unanimously approved the text of the second reading and the explanatory memorandum. Now for more details on the EUNAVFOR Med/Sophia mission set out in the draft. 26 European Union countries contribute to this European Union's largest military mission and its main objective is to prevent trafficking in human beings in the central Mediterranean between Italy and Malta's territorial sea and Libya. Estonia has been participating in this military mission since August 2015. By 2019 it is planned that the Estonian Defence Forces will contribute to the mission with two staff officers. By participating in the mission, Estonia fulfils its allied responsibilities arising from the membership of the European Union, which increases the external visibility of Estonia on the one hand, and on the other hand gives the Defence Forces the opportunity to gain a wide range of new experience in their operations. Procedural decisions. At its meeting on 4 December 2018, the National Defence Committee decided unanimously to submit a draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu, including by 19 December. At its meeting on 17 December 2018, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu to terminate the second reading of the draft, and it is proposed, on the basis of § 109 of the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act, to put the draft to a final vote and adopt it as a decision of the Riigikogu. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U93	Questions for the waitress. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U94	Thank you. The text of the draft text says that if the Council of the European Union approves the matter, it will do so. Italy's disagreement should be behind this. What is the difference between Italy and why are there only 26 participants?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U95	26 Therefore, I will start from the end, that some national laws do not guarantee how to say, the opportunity to participate in this mission. These are Denmark and Slovakia. Slovakia is not a maritime state. There are no other reasons. The first part of the question was about Italy. The Italian question is logistical. Italy is demanding or, let us say, trying to achieve that the countries of southern Europe can use a port other than their own. Obviously, the question is that it would simply be possible to use other ports, or rather another port, to say what to say. I don't know exactly, it hasn't been released. But that's the kind of thing that's been under discussion.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U96	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U97	Thank you. In fact, Italy does not want 'European Border Guards' to collect'refugees' and transport them to their ports. That's the thing. But I'm gonna check it out. If we approve of this draft decision here today, but in Europe, decisions remain tangled, could it happen that our two officers are the only ones watching the Mediterranean with a boat, or is it not?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U98	I'm sure our two officers aren't the only ones. The question is a very simple matter. We're extending this mission. The decision to continue the mission will be taken, given here by a decision of the Council of the European Union this week or next week and will be extended for a period of three months. This is the conditional sentence that if it is not extended in three months, Estonia will withdraw. But the mission will be there until then, if not extended, then the Estonian mission in the Mediterranean will end. In fact, it would be, say, political and reputational, but then it has to be done. However, if the mission is extended, it will run until the end of 2019.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U99	No more questions for the waitress. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. The National Defence Committee has proposed to put the draft to a final vote on 745. Oh, yeah, it's early! There is one amendment. Nobody wants to vote on it. Now we can go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the Riigikogu decision submitted by the Government of the Republic 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State on the European Union military mission EUNAVFOR Med/Sophia' draft 745. Please take a stand and vote. There were 56 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft 745 as a decision, 4 against and no abstentions. The decision has been taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U100	Draft Act on the Amendment of Civil Status Acts and other Acts initiated by the Government of the Republic 723. The rapporteur for the Committee on Legal Affairs is Toomas Paur. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U101	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Commission prepared a second reading on Monday 10 December 2018. 9 members of the Commission took part in the meeting, and 2 were absent. Enel Pungas, Head of the Department of Population Operations of the Ministry of the Interior, and Mari Käbi, Adviser to the same department, and Ingrid Ots-Vaik, Adviser to the Health System Development Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs were invited. Linnar Liivamägi announced that no amendments were tabled from the Riigikogu to amend the draft law amending the Civil Status Acts Act, Population Register Act and State Fees Act, but the Ministry of Social Affairs wishes to amend this draft. Ingrid Ots-Vaik introduced the proposals presented by the Ministry of Social Affairs in the committee, together with explanations, they are available on the Riigikogu website. He also announced that the proposals of the Ministry of Social Affairs were coordinated with the Ministry of the Interior and that the provisions concerning the local government and the prosecutor's office were coordinated with the working group on the development of a new law on the cause of death. The Commission decided to initiate three amendments, which are visible to you on the list of amendments. It was decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 19 December, including consensus, to propose the termination of the second reading (consensus), to send the draft to third reading when the second reading is closed, by 16 January 2019 (consensus), and to propose a final vote (consensus). The waitress is Toomas Paur.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U102	Questions for the waitress. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U103	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I will return to what you mentioned in my question. Did I understand correctly that, on the proposal of the Ministry of Social Affairs, this bill also amends the Cemetery Act? What were the reasons why this amendment to the Cemetery Act was introduced here?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U104	The reason was that if a body was found on the street, it wouldn't immediately be cremated, but DNA samples would be taken dead, and then you could look into it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U105	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U106	Thank you, good Chairman. Good Commission waitress! You have a long-term background in Southern Estonia's local government. It was quite surprising for me that, with one amendment to the Cemetery Act, local authorities would be obliged to publish a list of service providers of their choice who could deal with the deceased. There's a problem that the police and the ambulance don't have enough information. As a practitioner, tell me if this is actually such a big problem that you do not know who is offering the service on the spot. Why do you have to write such a thing into the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U107	I, who have worked in the municipality for 14 years, have not had such a problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U108	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U109	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! In answer to Krista Aru's question, I understood more or less why this matter of amending the Cemetery Act is here or what its purpose and meaning is. However, the 'technical side' remains unanswered as to why such unconnected topics will be included in the draft pending amendment. The Cemetery Act does not necessarily relate to the Civil Status Act. In the Commission, did you also ask the representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs why they did not initiate a separate draft but would bring such a relatively loosely tied issue into this? This is a fact that we have criticised over and over again in the process of dealing with several laws, which has been criticised by practically all the political groups of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U110	Yeah, they did, didn't they?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U111	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U112	Thank you, good Chairman. Good waitress! I'll come back to the last question. If we have tried to understand the tasks of local government in other committees, it has become clear that the big problem is that it is not possible to put together a comprehensive package, because there are very many tasks in different laws. Has it been considered that, for example, the Local Government Organisation Act could still be the place where what is currently written in the Cemetery Act is put together in a compact way?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U113	The Commission did not discuss this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U114	No more questions for the waitress. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. Three amendments have been tabled for draft 723; they are all from the lead committee. First, second and third. The second reading of Bill 723 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U115	The next draft is presented on our agenda by Mark Soosaar, Helmen Kütt, Jüri Jaanson and Andres Metsoja. Second reading of § 14 of the Health Services Organisation Act Supplementary Act 293. Please, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, Helmen Küttt!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U116	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good fellows! Bill 293 is a very long-story bill. The first reading of this draft took place on 22 November 2016, two years ago. The deadline for submitting amendments was then set at 5.15 p.m. on 6 December 2016. No amendments were tabled by members of the Riigikogu, political groups or committees on the draft. Just as a reminder, this draft, which was at the time of reading in the Chamber, introduced into the law that a company providing general medical care would also be entitled to carry out initial diagnostics of specialised medical care. Just Article 14 (1) and (2) introduced the term "medical diagnostics." The Committee on Social Affairs discussed this draft again on 16 May 2017. I'm just reading to you in the minutes what the representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs said and why our expectations have lasted so long. On 16 May 2017, Mark Soosaar and Dr Madis Veskimägi introduced the draft. At the time, Dr Diana Ingerainen of the Estonian Family Doctors' Association represented the Commission, who noted that our health care is well hospitalised and even when new hospitals are being planned, it is not considered how to ensure that studies are available to family doctors. A situation has now been reached where patients feel that they are not in the right place at all times, as the family doctor has limited opportunities. For family doctors, studies should be more readily available. It is clear that more complex things need to be done centrally, but primary diagnostic tools must be available to family doctors. In addition, Dr. Madis Veskimägi explained that the doctor's work is a responsibility to the patient and the first rule is that the patient should not be harmed. At the same time, he pointed out that the studies that a family doctor could do on the ground would also prevent patients from spending high costs and queues with specialist doctors. Obviously, the qualifications of family doctors are very important and will improve year after year. He also pointed out that he and the radiologists' estimates of the images were 94.5%. A representative of Heli Paluste, the Ministry of Social Affairs, stated that the extension of the list of services provided by family doctors and any services provided at first aid level is in principle supported. He pointed out on 16 May 2017 that since the Ministry is on the way and in June 2017 the intention to develop a legislative amendment on first-level health changes is also ready to be discussed with partners, the Ministry's request is not to rush into the draft. Indeed, the Committee on Social Affairs was looking forward to this. Monika Haukamm, who then led the Commission, pointed out that the Commission had the knowledge that the Ministry would come up with its proposals on the draft. The Commission's proposal to the Ministry was to propose, on the basis of the intention to develop, a better solution or wording of the draft, which could be discussed at the next Commission meetings. It took a whole year and a little more. The Committee on Social Affairs came back to the debate on the draft on 8 November 2018. At the time, we stated that we had not been able to find out how far the ministry had come. Heli Paliste confirmed that discussions and analyses are ongoing. At that time, on November 8, 2018, family doctors Elle-Mall Keevallik, who was a member of the board of the family doctors' association, represented the family doctors Elle-Mall Keevallik. He also said that he was convinced that the more a family doctor is allowed to help a patient within his jurisdiction, the better for a patient. A family doctor's association is certainly not against allowing a family doctor with radiology competence to carry out X-ray examinations. Leaving the term'medical diagnostics' in the draft is likely to prevent future problems. For example, family doctors may need to use other diagnostic techniques for specialised medical care at the primary level. As a result of this debate, we decided that we would ask the Ministry of Social Affairs to give an assessment of this text, however, of what this wording entails. On 4 December, we discussed the same draft again. We then made such decisions: to send the draft to plenary by the 12th (week back), to propose the end of the second reading and to send the draft to the third reading by the 19th, today, when there is actually a second reading, and to propose a final vote on the draft. The chairman of the committee, Helmen Kütt, was appointed rapporteur. When this draft was dealt with and discussed earlier, the chairman of the committee was Aivar Kokk, who led the procedure and introduced it here in the Riigikogu. We reconvened on December 10th. The Ministry of Social Affairs had found a better expression that would also facilitate understanding for everyone. It was pointed out that'specialist care diagnostics' is a very broad concept, involving a very large number of healthcare services from virtually all disciplines, and such a change would create confusion in a system where the principle of general medical care and the principle of separation of specialist medical care has been in force since the reform of the family doctor. Members of the Commission also had questions about financing. Maris Lauri asked about research funding. Sound Paliste replied that family doctors have their own research fund. If the family doctor does not carry out the studies himself and directs the person to another hospital or specialist care provider, then the current health insurance fund will be settled, the health insurance fund will compensate for the cost of the study for the family doctors, and the family doctor will compensate for it to the specialist care provider. Jüri Jaanson stressed that the concept of'medical diagnostics' is very broad and could be left out of the bill. He asked whether the wording proposed by the Ministry of Social Affairs could be asked for the opinion of the family doctors' association. Consequently, the Commission unanimously proposed that the draft be removed from the plenary agenda on 12 December and that the same draft be placed on the plenary agenda for the 19th day, i.e. today. On 17 December, the Social Affairs Committee held another debate. The Ministry of Social Affairs maintained its position. The text on which the Social Affairs Committee sought the opinion of the family doctors was this: 'In the framework of its licence, a general medical assistant may provide radiology services in the amount of X-rays and sonographic examinations, provided that the requirements laid down in subsection 21 (2) of this Act and the requirements for X-rays under the Radiological Act are met. ' Without the preparation or without fulfilling the requirements required to work with an X-ray machine, no one can do so. The family doctors had given us their opinion. They, of course, also wanted a broader approach. This broader approach would have included a wide range of medical services according to the opinion of family doctors. Given also the rapidly changing time and the growing role of family doctors in the future, this needs to be discussed and probably amended. Family doctors wanted just radiology services to be mentioned. The representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs, Heli Paluste, explained that radiology is divided according to research and treatment methods and has a wide range of activities such as X-rays, X-rays, mammography, ultrasound diagnostics, CT scans, magnetic resonance imaging and many other activities. Consequently, it was discussed by the Commission. I would very much like to thank the Members of the Commission, who have looked at the subject completely in terms of health and social policy, there was no political party policy there. The Committee on Social Affairs was found not to be the right place to make such major health policy changes. The introduction of such a broad list also requires better analysis and discussion with the various groups that are concerned (I am referring to medicine). At present, it has only been discussed with radiologists and the law mentions only X-rays and sonographic research on this list. If the wording proposed by the association of family doctors had remained broader, it would certainly have meant longer discussions. Consequently, the Commission took full account of this amendment, which mentions the size of X-rays and sonographic examinations and, of course, that all requirements must be met. With this text, we're in this room today. However, both the protocol and the Ministry of Social Affairs have been asked orally by the members of the Commission to process it no longer seems to be possible to discuss it very seriously, especially when new health centres are being completed, how the role of family doctors would enable patients to be better served and near their place of residence. If the competence of family doctors is appropriate for this purpose, then the lists that should be dealt with by family doctors should be seriously analysed and considered, and a draft law should be prepared for the next Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U117	Questions for the waitress. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U118	Thank you, good Chairman. Good chairman of the committee! I think that this bill is also a step in the right direction, thanks to the fact that new family medicine centres are being completed across Estonia, they are already being opened and there is a troubling of them. In this sense, the role of "modernising" family doctor services in the country, I think, will be growing in the near future as a result. That's why I still have questions. Firstly, I do not read here whether this wording serves the purpose of the initiators of the draft. I can't read it in this text right now. Secondly, I still want to know more substantially why the Commission did not dare to take the risk of a wider range of services, knowing that it will be at the door in the near future, as you have also pointed out.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U119	Thank you very much. Indeed, this question is very correct. We also discussed this at length among the members of our committee. Mark Soosaar, the initiators of this draft, is no longer a member of the Riigikogu, but the other three were there, and Mr Andres Metsoja also participated in the debate on the amended text, which is currently in this Chamber. The aim is to give family doctors more rights and opportunities. We were very much looking forward to the draft drafted by the Ministry of Social Affairs, where these things could also have been analysed. If the draft has been initiated by members of the Riigikogu, as Liina Kersna said at the meeting of the Committee on 17 December, the Social Affairs Committee must not give rise to such a decision, which is really emotional and without analysis, by providing a list containing all these studies and treatments. We must not create undue confusion in this area. The compromise could be to move forward with narrower wording, but the overall trend could be wider. There was no way to say, fear, there was no lack of courage here, but there was a sense of responsibility that we would take this first step, which has also been discussed at very many meetings with family doctors, i.e. sonography and X-rays. A request has been sent to the Ministry of Social Affairs because they have, however, studied it for a very long time since 2016. The initiators also felt that it would not be necessary simply to leave this text of the law on the shelf after the first reading, and not to go on, but the extension of the list could have had consequences that had a financial dimension and could have an impact on patients without knowing, for example, radiation. Today there are no so-called radiation passports. I would like to thank Mr Vasiliyev very much, who also pointed out that this issue is currently being dealt with in order for every person to have a personal so-called radiation card or passport that shows how many studies have been carried out, they all go there. That is why the Commission went on, as they say, only in the first step.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U120	Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U121	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! You gave a very thorough overview of the progress of this procedure, which has unfortunately been too long, and also of the general issues, but I would be very specific. I remember that this question arose because of the initiative of a good family doctor, Madis Veskimäe, which was clearly ahead of the legislation. If I remember correctly, he had all the equipment. I understand that because of the failure of the ministry, the Commission waited quite a while, and the Commission, I would say, was too patient here. Would you also answer the question of the damage caused by this delay? I understand that a particular family doctor had the readiness, even the equipment. We're actually all responsible here for this stretching, obviously.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U122	Thank you. The fact that this bill has stood for a long time is true. That is indeed the case. We were waiting for the Ministry to come with their bill. Madis Veskimägi took part in our committee when the first debate took place after the first reading, on 16 May 2017, he gave very detailed explanations, and we invited him again to the Commission on 8 November. One very clear reason why the Commission took this decision was also what Madis Veskimägi said. In fact, when he visited the Health Board on May 31, this year, he was told that this law did not allow for the granting of a radiological licence, since it was a general medical care provider. Before, the Ministry had told us that a family doctor could also be granted a radiological licence under the current law if all the conditions were met, but the actual situation was that the doctor stressed this on several occasions, as was clear from the content of the decision of the Health Board prohibiting the general medical care provider from providing specialised medical care, and there was no mention of the competence. That was also the reason why the Commission decided to go on putting this real permission into law so that it could no longer hide behind it. I can't tell you the extent of the damage, I really think that all those who needed X-ray services and research got them, but the mileage that had to be run through was definitely big, or the time they had to wait was definitely long. There's no harm done here. The damage may have been caused only by the fact that a good family doctor who was willing to do all this two years ago could not do so. It is not just the Commission's mistake, either, because the licences for practices are issued by other authorities. What else was the damage? Perhaps this message also caused harm to the family doctors. Family doctors are actually ready to take on more responsibility. I would say that if we all adopt this law together, it will be useful in the sense that family doctors believe that these changes can be implemented, and there is support from the people, the members of the Riigikogu. The desire of family doctors is already more to bet on the first level. But there has been a principle in Estonia so far, which must also be respected, and which really needs wider discussions, that first-level services and specialist medical services are separate. Time changes quickly, as I said at the beginning. Situations change, the competence of family doctors increases. For example, this good family doctor, who, in my opinion, is like a model of a family doctor who has an interest in contributing more, has begun to study at the University of Tartu as a radiology technician. A family doctor with this competence, who also works in an ambulance in Pärnu, has also started studying at the university in order to meet all the requirements. That's a good bill. I assure you, it's true.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U123	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U124	Thank you, Vice President. Good chairman of the committee! I recall the discussion about the medical situation, which we had about a month and a half ago, on a key national issue. It was very strongly stressed that the patient should first contact a family doctor, that the burden of both the emergency department and the cost of the treatment would be balanced. Did the Commission set some very clear deadline for the Ministry to organise round tables with family doctors, with a view to broadening the range of services and making services more modern and closer to the patient?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U125	Thank you for that question. We really talked a lot about this in the Commission that if it is just that this decision does not even get the protocol, or that this issue does not go back to the Ministry of Social Affairs as a message (we do not know who will continue in the next Riigikogu), it may just fall off. Therefore, anyway, at the beginning of the new year, when the Commission meets and decides when the third reading will come in this Chamber, we will record it and set a deadline for its composition. So that's a good idea, and we're definitely counting on it. But I'll tell you one more thing. During this debate on a key national issue, a major problem was also seen in the fact that people are not addressing the family doctor, but the emergency department. But these things are very clearly linked. When a family doctor has more competence, people trust him and know that this is not one stage where a referral is given when it needs to be given, but the family doctor is able to investigate and diagnose many things himself and then he can pass on the patient.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U126	Andres Metsoja.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U127	Thank you, President-in-Office. Mr Helmen, one of the initiators of the draft and the rapporteur for the Commission. I know that democracy takes a long time, and democracy itself is clumsy, but it is one of the drafts that still surprise me. I remember when we all went to the Tõstamaa together. Then there was Jevgeni Ossinovski, Minister of this field. This issue has been in the air for quite a long time and, finally, officials have come to the conclusion that it is a mess. My question, however, is why some simple things take so long.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U128	Thank you for your question. Well, what do I say to that? Indeed, we went there together and have been the initiators of this draft together. I know that very many good thoughts initiated by several members of the Riigikogu have not even reached this phase, as is today's draft, and this is likely to be adopted next year. In a field in which the members of the Social Affairs Committee have partially no competence, except Viktor Vassilyev, who really is a doctor, it is risky only to make emotional decisions, not to analyse at all, or not to make plans to develop. Believe me, including the adoption of this law, including its little, two steps, will certainly cause some specialist doctors or other professionals who are not family doctors, who are very much looking forward to this law, expect greater powers and better opportunities to provide patients with assistance, resentment, think that everyone is dealing with their own affairs and that there is a specialist doctor for the provision of such services. But we just don't have time for everything to stay the way it was. This needs to be changed, and precisely because health centres are emerging, where there are greater competences and where there are better opportunities, there are better equipment. Consideration should also be given to the spread of housing and the distance between people's homes and specialised doctors and hospitals. So we give the right to those who can handle it. But I agree with you that it could have gone a little faster. We just waited and hoped that this analysis and the bill from the ministry would come faster.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U129	Thank you very much, dear waitress. I will open negotiations on the draft provisions. Please, Monika Hawkhammer!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U130	Mr President! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I take advantage of my right to give my speech today after the second reading, because this is no longer possible after the third reading. Of course, this bill is a story with a tail and antlers. While the first visits were in 2015 and then there were different media coverage, today is the end of 2018. But it is good that good things do come true, even if they sometimes take more time than they should. Because, indeed, the amendment to the Health Services Organisation Act, already launched in 2016, which has become known as the "Madis Veskimäe Bill," is, on the one hand, noble, but in fact, what makes us very happy is that it is also feasible. As you know, and here it also sounded, Madis Veskimägi is a family doctor in Tõstamaa who has been fighting as a family doctor for years to enable a family doctor to carry out activities that fall within the competence of a so-called specialist doctor. I'll start with feasibility. The purpose of the change before us, as we have heard here, is to authorise family doctors who are general practitioners, if they have qualifications... I stress, in fact, that it is most important that qualifications and apparatus are in place, as well as that the premises meet all the requirements to be able to deal with the diagnostics of first-level specialised medical care and to use radiation devices. After all, the purpose of this whole thing is to provide first aid in a more operational way. However, this is not just a struggle for a family doctor, but a very important one, but a much broader one, with the aim of making general medical care more effective and effective and of reducing the burden on doctors providing specialist medical care. However, it is not less important to save both the resources of the Health Insurance Fund and patients' time and money so that, for example, the patient does not need to go to a remote centre to take an X-ray. In this example: If a pussy comes from the country, for example, or a schoolboy with his swollen knee, he should now send an X-ray to Pärnu, 50 kilometers away. After all, we have the technology that allows us to take a photo and send it to a remote centre for immediate consultation, where the specialist provides advice and guidance on what needs to be done. That answer is also coming very quickly. All the more so as we put this whole issue in a broader context, that we are in the process of completing all over Estonia and that we have already completed health centres and a whole network of health centres. We very clearly expect health centres to be patient-centred and all services to be available in one place. It is also understandable and understandable, then, that in a changing and modern age world, we give these opportunities to family doctors, especially in health centres, where it would be possible to acquire equipment for the initial diagnosis of several family doctors, whether it be an X-ray apparatus, an ultrasound apparatus, eye diagnostics, etc. They also provide adequate radiation-proof spaces for the gang and employ qualified and trained specialists. Together with the emergence of primary health centres, we need to make the provision of services more flexible than today and to give more competence to family doctors. It is important that the draft does not oblige any family doctor to deal with the diagnostics of specialist medical care, but simply give those who have competence and equipment the opportunity to provide this service. This bill does not require financial investment, but only gives rights to family doctors. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U131	Please! Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U132	The nobleness of the bill, however, lies in the sense stated by Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise, who has repeatedly spoken and repeated in this Chamber, that if there is a single person who needs to amend or amend the law or even his own law, we should be brave enough in this Chamber, because standing up for this one person can make the lives of a much greater number of people better. As I said, the draft does not concern one family doctor, but the Estonian Association of Family Doctors is also interested in this draft, which has also expressed its support. This draft has been drawn up, as has been said here, by four members of the Riigikogu, which did not come to our tables as expected as a draft of the Government of the Republic. I must admit that at first it seemed to us that it would happen as usual in the Riigikogu if the bill did not come from the government, i.e. there would be a non-supporting response. In this case, the Ministry admitted from the very beginning that they basically support, but then this classic sentence came up: but we are already working on it and analysing it. Since the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu was indeed consistent in raising this issue, very good cooperation with the Ministry of Social Affairs was achieved at the end of this year and a common solution was also found on how best to change the wording so that we can proceed with this draft. It is obvious, however, that the narrower version that comes into the wording of the law today may not satisfy us in a year or two if we have all the health centres. Then we will most likely have to change the law on the organisation of health services again. The next Riigikogu will do so. The way to deal with this draft has been one of the challenges, but I hope that we will finish this before the next Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U133	Andres Metsoja.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U134	Good vice chairman! Dear Members, I certainly thank the Commission for the work it has done. It's taken a long time, but sometimes it's just the way it is. In fact, I find it very strange that we have been able to reform the administration of Estonia very fundamentally in this Chamber, and we have decided in the meantime that there are now fewer municipalities in Estonia between the submission and processing of this bill. A very big decision, we've even made a coercion. In fact, Tõstamaa has become a part of the city of Pärnu, figuratively speaking. However, involving people in the farther corners of Estonia, when there is an initiative and there are people who want to change this world according to the possibilities they have, maybe make people's lives easier, in a democratic country for an awfully long time. It's sad, actually. And then we often look in the mirror and think about why people are angry, why they don't understand us politicians. This is a serious place for us to think. Indeed, this bill is not revolutionary from the end; it is very substantive; it is based directly on the proposal of the National Audit Office. After all, the National Audit Office has just pointed out the whole spectrum of medical matters, the reason why it is so brutally burdened with emergency medicine, where there are problems and where doctors no longer want to work. At the same time, we say that family doctors should be the ones who remove the burden of specialist doctors, so that there are no queues for specialist doctors, and they can really treat those people who have to get to them in time. On the other hand, the authorities and I are essentially arguing about whether or not a family doctor can carry out studies. Good thing it happened, let's hope it goes better next time. The initiative always contains magic and victory. I believe that the first-level health centre project was, in fact, a very large amount of money being spent there once again in concrete, in buildings, that this money will actually go for the people, that people will be treated on time, and that the Estonian people will remain healthy as long as possible. Thank you. Definitely support this bill!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U135	No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. One amendment to the draft has been tabled; it has been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs. The decision of the commission is to take full account. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 293. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U136	First reading of the draft 772 of the Riigikogu's decision 'Increasing the participation of the Republic of Estonia in the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development' submitted by the Government of the Republic. Mr. Tõniste, Secretary of Finance, speaking chair, please. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U137	Good manager! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Government proposes to the Riigikogu to increase the participation of the Republic of Estonia in the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) by 202 shares. The Republic of Estonia makes this commitment in US dollars and this is USD 3307542. The commitment amounts to an approximate EUR 2,97 million. Payments will be made for up to five years from 2020 and will amount to around EUR 590000 per year. In addition, the capital required will increase by nearly EUR 18,5 million. The capital of the IBRD was last increased in 2010, when Estonia increased its participation in the bank by 247 shares. As of 2018, Estonia has 1170 shares worth USD 141 million. It has paid in nearly USD 6 million, or around EUR 5.2 million. The value of the interest to be recovered is approximately USD 135 million, or approximately EUR 115,7 million. Estonia has fulfilled all its obligations to the IBRD so far. This is a financing transaction. Honourable Riigikogu! The IBRD is a long-term and global development cooperation organisation whose overall aim is to reduce global poverty and improve people's standard of living in its Member States. In order to achieve this, the Bank has been offering financial and advisory services and supporting less developed and vulnerable countries on the basis of a comprehensive list since 1944. The IBRD has contributed to creating new jobs in developing countries, improving access to essential services and infrastructure and launching programmes to support low-income groups. The IBRD also operates in vulnerable countries and conflict zones and provides diverse advisory services. Since 1959, the IBRD has maintained a very high rating AAA, which allows them to borrow money from financial markets at low cost and therefore they can offer loans to their customers on favourable terms. Since 1944, the IBRD has contributed over USD 500 billion to reducing global poverty. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. In the financial year 2010, the IBRD has provided USD 23 billion of funding to those in need. The projects of the IBRD have also benefited Estonian entrepreneurs who have received contracts for USD 10.9 million in the course of the IBRD project procurement in 2014. In addition, it is important that paid-up capital is accounted for as official development aid. Estonia's development cooperation and humanitarian aid development plan 2016 has an important role to play in increasing Estonia's contribution to development cooperation. Estonia has made an international commitment to increase the financing of official development aid to at least 0.33% of GNP by 2030. Increasing participation in the IBRD will contribute to this objective and we will also increase the real participation in the bank. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U138	There are questions for the waitress. Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U139	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much for your substantive and thorough review. I still have one question. Why exactly up to 202 shares is this subscription allowed?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U140	Thank you. Since the IBRD has planned to increase its share capital by a certain amount, it distributes precisely so that it results in 202 shares for Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U141	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U142	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! I am interested in Estonia's supervision, or rather how it has been arranged that the funds we have provided should serve the objectives set. Is there a specific collection for this, how regularly it works, and if there are shortcomings, how the Estonian state can provide feedback and can it do so at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U143	Thank you. In the World Bank, Estonia also has its own representative, and by the countries of our region, there are people on the payroll who are currently led by the Dane. Annual World Bank meetings are also held every year, where the Minister of Finance has participated by the Estonian state. This being on the ground, even actually taking part in everyday work, is perhaps the best guarantee.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U144	Hatter, the second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U145	Thank you. The draft stipulates that the value of this 202 share will be paid out within five years from 2020. What exactly is this graph, have you already agreed on this at government level? Is it fixed somewhere, and if so, where?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U146	Thank you. Indeed, this contribution will take place over a period of five years and the annual payment will amount to approximately EUR 590000. In addition, the capital we collect will increase by around EUR 18.5 million. These figures are also taken into account in the country's budget strategy.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U147	Honourable Minister, thank you for your presentation and your answers. Taavi Rõivas, Vice-President of the Monetary Commission, will make a presentation of the lead committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U148	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! In general, it is as the Minister said. But there's still a lot to add. It is that the Committee on Monetary Affairs discussed the draft, including on 10 December. Riina Laigo, adviser to the Ministry's European Union and International Cooperation Department, represented the initiators on the Commission. As the Minister nicely said, this decision will increase the participation of the Republic of Estonia in the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development by 202 shares, and from 2020 we will have to make contributions of USD 3370542 for up to five years, or just less than EUR 3 million in today's currency. Perhaps it is also important to add that there is still some EUR 18,5 million in callable capital. Once again, it is quite common practice for such institutions. The Commission was asked, in particular, how the payment would take place in order to increase the contribution of the IBRD. The answer was as the Minister said here today that it would be paid in five years. This is a financing transaction and the resources are planned in the country's budget strategy. The Commission made the following consensual decisions: to send the draft to the plenary session of the Riigikogu by Wednesday, 19 December and to conclude the first reading. In addition, the Commission decided to set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 9 January 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U149	Any questions for the waitress? There aren't any. Thank you very much for the waitress. I will open negotiations on the general principles of the draft if I so wish. That's not what you want. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of the draft. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 772 amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 9 January.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U150	First reading of the Bill amending § 11 of the Income Tax Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Minister of Finance Toomas Tõniste, please waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U151	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The first reading is the draft law amending the Income Tax Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. The content of the draft is perhaps much easier than the title might appear. This draft relates to the programme of action of the Government of the Republic for the years 2016 to 2019. Under this action programme, the procedures for drawing up the list of non-profit organisations and foundations benefiting from income tax should be simplified. The aim is to enable companies to access the tax credit more quickly. This amendment is intended to abolish the so-called Committee of Experts, composed of representatives from the third sector. The proposal to abolish the Commission has just come from the Members of the Commission. It was the task of the Commission to make recommendations to the Tax and Customs Board concerning the listing, non-inclusion or deletion of associations. It also lays down the principle that the Tax and Customs Board shall update the list on the first day of each calendar month. So far, the list was updated twice a year and some non-profit organisations had to wait too long. The amendments are planned to enter into force on 1 July next year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U152	There are questions. Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U153	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! Can you tell us what was the reason that the expert committee no longer wanted to deal with the subject? I think that, even if the third sector is involved, the work could be organised in such a way that it is possible to renew the 'base' every month, not twice a year. What was the underlying reason, and who will now make these decisions?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U154	Thank you. I think that all citizens believe that the state does not have to create excessive bureaucracy and interlayers. Perhaps the main reason was that, in recent years, representatives of NGOs and tax authorities no longer had significant differences of opinion. Therefore, the Commission's initial idea of more involvement is no longer topical and was found to be actually perhaps a delay in these processes. This was a general understanding that, on the basis of established practice, the Tax and Customs Board is essentially making the same decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U155	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U156	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Will the role of the Minister now change, because the Minister will actually remain involved in this chain? Can the Minister's political judgment not and cannot not be determined and influenced by the confirmation of the list?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U157	Thank you. So far, as a minister, I have had absolutely no contact with this issue, no one has approached me with their concerns or asked for any problem to be resolved. I think it's gonna stay that way. Of course, I cannot be responsible for future ministers, I do not know how forcefully they are going to intervene here, but I believe that this problem will not arise.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U158	Hatter, the second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U159	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! Am I right to understand that if a non-profit organisation applies to the Estonian Tax and Customs Board to be included on that list, there is an official in the Estonian Tax and Customs Board who, I imagine, will see if there are no obligations to the state, no tax debts, no reporting obligations, etc.? If this party is correct and meets the requirements of the law, this association will automatically be included on the list as of the first date, there is no other connection. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U160	Thank you. Exactly, according to established best practice, this was actually the way it was, in fact, today, but only in the middle was the Committee of Experts. Now the Commission simply disappears, and these are the criteria, the perceptions, the established practice. If there are doubts, they can be resolved separately.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U161	Thank you very much, Minister. No further questions for you. The presentation of the commission is made by Priit Sibul, member of the Monetary Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U162	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, This government-led bill is a very good bill. Just as the question was asked in this Chamber and the minister replied, I think, and so we understood in the Commission that the most important nuance is, however, the reduction of bureaucracy. Perhaps this committee of experts has become a 'rudiment', in fact, organisations in the third sector have certainly become much more competent, they understand this, they are likely to have experience and it will enable the associations to deal with this issue. It is true that when it receives a list of tax incentives, these associations will also be subject to reporting obligations. If you want to get out of there, it's gonna take a certain process. As the Minister said, the Committee of Experts met twice a year and twice a year the associations were able to enter the list and the exclusion decisions were then taken by MTA in accordance with the Commission's proposal. Now, according to this bill, this is going to happen on a rolling basis. Within 30 days, the Estonian Tax and Customs Board shall give its position and, as of the first date of the following month, the association shall, if it has all the necessary information correctly presented, be on the list. My colleague, Krista Aru, asked whether or to what extent the person or will of the minister could begin to influence it. In my opinion, we have regulated it in paragraphs 8 and 9 of § 11 of the Income Tax Act: the procedure for drawing up the list and the list of documents to be submitted for that purpose, as well as the procedure for entering and removing the company from the list, will be laid down by regulation by the Minister responsible for the field. After all, this regulation will be very general and contain specific documents. I think that we will all be able to notice in the future if a minister starts to change this regulation in one direction or another, with a specific focus. It can be the only place like this. But I dare say that our political culture has gone too far for that. I can't quite imagine the nuances who might need it or why. I think this is a very sensible proposal. It is the NGOs themselves who have approached us on this issue that this panel of experts should disappear from that period. I guess their cooperation with the Tax and Customs Board has been so good that they have the conviction that their lives will then become more sensible and less bureaucratic. Despite this, we in the Commission, just in case, asked for views from various parties by 7 January: NGOs, the Olympic Committee, the Youth Alliance. That is, just in case, so that we can be convinced in the Commission and my words can be confirmed, because it is still an opinion at the moment. The Commission has decided to close the first reading and we are waiting for the amendments by 9 January. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U163	How about 5:15?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U164	It's okay with us.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U165	Please, Krista Aru, question!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U166	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Commission waitress. I will ask you a little bit more about the subject mentioned in the explanatory memorandum. In particular, when preparing this draft law, did the Commission also discuss the issue of channelling the tax paid over time? Why has the possibility of channelling it to some non-governmental organisations been postponed until 2020, perhaps even half a year, although it is argued that there is no need for a legislative amendment, but only for technical remediation?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U167	Unfortunately, I have to admit that we did not have this issue in the Commission, but I certainly intend to take your question to the debate at the beginning of January. At second reading, perhaps I can also answer you what this is our position.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U168	Thank you very much for the waitress. There are no more questions. I'm offering you a chance to negotiate. That's not what you want. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of the draft. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 770 amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 9 January.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U169	Today's last item is the first reading of the Act amending the Law of Obligations Act and the Law of Obligations Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Welcome, Minister of Finance Toomas Tõniste!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U170	Hello, hello, good manager. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Only a public limited liability company or a European company can act as an insurance company in Estonia. The bill submitted to you also allows profit cooperatives to provide insurance services. In Europe, insurance cooperatives are common; they own about a third of the entire insurance market. Estonia is one of the few countries in the European Union where cooperatives cannot provide insurance. As a general rule, an insurance cooperative is subject to the same regulation as an insurance undertaking acting as a public limited liability company, including the entire legal framework of the European Union, but in addition, they must pursue their activities in accordance with the rules of the profit and loss association. The cooperative must apply to the Financial Supervision Authority for an authorisation to operate as an insurance cooperative. This ensures that the cooperative has sufficient resources and capacity to provide the service for the insurance business. The main difference between an insurance company operating in the form of a public limited liability company and an insurance cooperative is that the owners of the insurance cooperative are not shareholders, but members of the cooperative, who are predominantly Estonian citizens or entrepreneurs. Members are entitled to participate in the management of the insurance cooperative and in the distribution of profits. The law does not provide for a restriction on the type of insurance the cooperative may offer. When establishing a cooperative, at least two persons agree on the risks to be covered and whether they only cover the insurance risks of their members or those of other persons and companies. Many of the amendments to the draft are rather technical in nature, ensuring the application of the current insurance regulation to cooperatives, as well as providing for certain insurance-specific differences in relation to the Cooperative Corporations Act. The amendments shall enter into force in accordance with the normal procedure. So these are the amendments to the draft under discussion. Please support them! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U171	Before the round of questions. Enn Meri.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U172	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Minister, thank you very much. It was a little unclear to me how the size of the capital should be seen here. I read on page 7 of the explanatory memorandum that the minimum share capital of a cooperative cooperative is EUR 2500, but a public limited company, or insurance company, has EUR 2 or 3 million. EUR 2500 seems to me to be a very small capital. Can you explain to me how it's meant to be, what the minimum capital must be?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U173	This share capital is regulated by law. In the case of insurance companies, this differs from the rules applicable to ordinary private limited liability companies. They are subject to the same rules as public limited liability companies, as well as to the legal framework arising from the European Union as a whole. In addition, the Financial Supervision Authority assesses the capacity to provide services and the adequacy of resources. That may be the criterion.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U174	Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U175	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Thomas Tõniste! You were not a minister at that time, and perhaps you do not remember this, but unfortunately, the member of the Riigikogu Andres Ammas, who has now left, highlighted the issue of cooperatives at the beginning of this Riigikogu, among other things, that cooperatives could also have the opportunity to act in the banking sector. Was the original draft, which at the time accompanied, if I remember correctly, the gentle promise of continuing to deal with the matter, the extension of the rights of insurance business discussed in the Ministry?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U176	Thank you. I don't have any direct information that this has anything to do with it. But, yeah, for some reason, we're kind of in the way of time here. As I said, almost a third of the insurance market across Europe is in the hands of insurance cooperatives that bring additional competition, perhaps help to bring down prices and offer services that are not offered by ordinary insurance companies. Somehow we didn't have that chance in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U177	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U178	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! Throughout the years, profit cooperatives have tried to expand their field of activity, but it is all behind the legislator and, in fact, the executive. One of the impulses to expand Estonian banking is to empower cooperatives, for example, to conduct settlement transactions that they do not have today. The draft, I understand that, gives them the opportunity to start providing insurance services thanks to the directive. Has the Ministry thought about opening up the following services to commercial cooperatives? If so, according to what timetable could you discuss it, analyze it, and why not bring it into the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U179	Thank you. The introduction of new drafts into this hall has not been further discussed at this stage; rather, it is precisely that which I believe is being dealt with in order to remedy this major deficiency. I am pleased that today this bill is in this Chamber, which also gives profit cooperatives the opportunity to start offering insurance.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U180	Enn Meri, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U181	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Minister, thank you very much. I'm still coming back to that share capital. I understand from your answer that the services offered are the provision of equity capital. How does this happen? Is it the case that an association has to submit a business plan that will then be discussed, or how is it going to happen?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U182	I'll be honest with you, I'm not so familiar with the way this is going. I know that, in any case, it will be very closely monitored that those who receive this licence have sufficient resources and capacity to provide insurance services. That is what depends on the business plan and their desire to start providing some kind of insurance service and, accordingly, these guarantees.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U183	March Sults.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U184	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! My question coincides a little with the question of the questioner. Let's say I want to start a cooperative activity and secure pets. How much share capital do I have to have in order to start it or get a permit at all? Can it be zero, or do I have to start developing quietly, some buffer time or anything? How long do they give me to prove myself, or do I have to have a million right now?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U185	Let's just say that the minimum requirement for initial capital is the same as that for a public limited liability company as an insurance company. Perhaps the founding members of the insurance cooperative must get together EUR 3 million, that is the order of magnitude. It's not cheap. As regards the authorisation process, the conditions and requirements for authorisation are again the same as those of a public limited liability company insurance company.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U186	Thank you very much, Minister. There are no more questions. Dmitri Dmitriev, Member of the Monetary Commission, will make a presentation of the commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U187	Honourable Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the Insurance Act and the Law of Obligations Act was discussed by the Finance Committee at its meeting on 11 December. In addition to what the Minister had already spoken about, it was asked, for example, why this amendment had not been made in the past. The representative of the Ministry of Finance explained that, in the form of a profit-making cooperative, insurance could be offered until 1995, when the Commercial Code was adopted, and in fact it is not known exactly what reasons the profit-making cooperatives' ability to act as an insurance company was lost. They also asked who had been involved in the preparation of the draft law. As you can see from the explanatory memorandum, and the representative of the Ministry of Finance explained that his comments were submitted by the Supreme Court, the Financial Supervision Authority and the Estonian Insurance Association. Jürgen Ligi, a member of the Monetary Commission, asked, for example, that cooperative activities were not highly favoured in the 1990s and whether the suitability of the form of cooperatives in the financial sector had been examined. The representative of the Ministry of Finance replied that the form of a cooperative cooperative has always been allowed in banking and in the 1990s the number and volume of cooperatives decreased both in Estonia and in Europe in general, but the share of cooperatives in the economy has increased considerably over the last ten years. In any case, the draft has positive effects. If we look at the European market, about 40% of non-life insurance companies are insurance cooperatives. There are none in Estonia yet because the law has not allowed this. We hope that after the adoption of the law, we will also have insurance cooperatives. The Commission took the following decisions: to send the draft to the Riigikogu's plenary agenda by Wednesday, 19 December, or today, to conclude the first reading (the decision was consensual), to set 10 working days for the submission of amendments, i.e. 5.15 p.m. on 9 January (also a consensual decision), and to appoint Dmitri Dmitrijev (also a consensus) as rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U188	Hatter, please ask a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U189	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good Commission waitress! I understood from the Minister's reply that the Ministry does not intend to hold discussions in the near future to expand the field of activity of profit cooperatives. Is and to what extent the Finance Committee has discussed the extension of the services of profit cooperatives in the Riigikogu? If so, what conclusions have been reached?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U190	Thank you for your question. But I will say briefly that it has not been discussed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-19_U191	Thank you very much for the waitress. No further questions. I'll open negotiations if there's any requests. There's no desire. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of the draft. I will set the deadline for the submission of 769 amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 9 January. Ladies and gentlemen, today's session is closed. Thanks for today's work. If we've had an impeccable reputation, it's possible Santa Claus will come tomorrow. [[The excitement in the hall.]] Thank you. Closure of the sitting at 15.57 p.m.
