ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-17_U1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Guests! We will begin the Monday session of the second working week of the VIIIth plenary session of the Riigikogu. Transfer of pre-claims and enquiries. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-17_U2	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Rural Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu has the honour to hand over the draft law amending the Act implementing the common agricultural policy of the European Union, the Law on the organisation of the fisheries market, the Structural Support Act for the period 2014 to 2020 and the Structural Support Act for the period 2007 to 2013. The draft law amending the Act implementing the common agricultural policy of the European Union, the Law on the organisation of the fisheries market, the Structural Support Act for the period 2014 to 2020 and the Structural Support Act for the period 2007 to 2013 has been drafted with a view to making late payment more flexible and more sensitive to the rights of the beneficiary of the aid. According to the draft, late payment is no longer applicable to the deferral of the recovery of the aid granted under the Act implementing the common agricultural policy of the European Union. As another important amendment, these laws are complemented by the principles rooted in private law and case law, according to which interest on late payment is not taken into account in excess of the principal debt. This means that late payment ends when the amount of interest exceeds the amount of aid to be recovered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-17_U3	Tanel Winter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-17_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I will hand over the draft decision of the Riigikogu, which, in connection with the departure of Liisa Oviir from the Riigikogu, appoints Kalvi Tõud as the alternate member of the committee of concern for the development of developments in state reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-17_U5	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-17_U6	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, We will present an inquiry to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Kadri Samson, on a subject very close to my heart, namely the promotion of the use of bicycles. We would like to know what Estonia's activities in this area are. Planning is the responsibility of the local government, but the state should also set objectives here and help the local government to shape the environment that favours the use of a bicycle. Let us take the recent example of Paide, where a new renovated main street will be built, but it will not ensure that the quality of the living environment is improved, nor will it guarantee safe travel for children and young people on their way to school. Soon, we will also have before us a draft initiative to increase the safety of cyclists. This will certainly be an exciting debate. But first, a number of delegates ask the Minister what the plan of the Estonian state is, how we get people on the bike, how we thereby save our people health and also a lot of resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-17_U7	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-17_U8	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Committee on Social Affairs, it is my great honour to initiate a draft law amending the Law on the Organisation of Health Services and the Law on Medicines. The law would allow the cross-border exchange of digital prescriptions: there would be the possibility of buying prescription medicines issued in your home country in another EU country and vice versa. The aim of the amendments is to enable the digital exchange of health data, both medical data and prescriptions, across borders. It will undoubtedly provide a better service for both patients and healthcare providers and pharmacies in the future. We are used to the fact that our digital recipe works very well in Estonia, and we can get our medicines quickly. Given the great movement of Estonians, it would be very good if the digital recipe were to work elsewhere, in other countries of the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-17_U9	On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted three drafts and one inquiry. The Management Board decides on their further processing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu. Checking for presence. 72 members of the Riigikogu take part in the sitting, no 29. Adoption of the agenda. I am voting on the approval of the agenda for the second working week of the VIIIth plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. There are 70 members of the Riigikogu in favour of approving the agenda, no respondents or abstentions; 2 will not participate. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-17_U10	Answering questions. On Monday, 17 September, there is an inquiry: an inquiry submitted by members of the Riigikogu, Peeter Ernitsa, Toomas Väinaste, Heimar Leng, Marika Tuus-Lauli, Enn Eesmaa, Oudekki Loone and Henn Põlluaasa on 22 August 2018 concerning Russian influence agents in the Riigikogu and the Government of the Republic (No 442). The Secretary of Defense Jüri Luik responds, and Peter Ernits gives a report from the inquisitors. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-17_U11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you very much. This inquiry could be of interest to many colleagues; it is a personal inquiry. But let's start from the beginning. On 22 July, a "good bomb" exploded when Eesti Päevaleht published such a button that the Head of the Foreign Intelligence Board has said that they have identified a network. I quote precisely: 'We have identified a network of politicians, journalists, diplomats and business figures, who are Russian agents and who are doing what the Kremlin says. Politicians who were on the verge of local politics a few years ago have now reached Parliament or the government, and we can see clearly that these people are running a Russian agenda there. " Of course, the presentation is longer and more detailed. In any case, I was wondering whether our intelligence authorities have really reached such a point that they have identified a network of journalists, diplomats and, among other things, politicians. I sent a personal letter to the Secretary of Defense on August 6th! And I asked what was really going on. Weeks went by, no answer. On 22 August, when there was an extraordinary session of the Riigikogu, I thought that it would be possible for a long time, and I submitted an inquiry with six colleagues. And, by miracle, the next day, on the 23rd, my reply to the letter of August 6 came from the Secretary of Defense. So actually, I know what the Secretary of Defense is gonna tell us right now, but let him tell everyone here, and then you can ask him how it is. My question was about those from the periphery of local politics. "On the verge of local politics" means, by definition, a simple member of the local council, not a district manager, mayor, chairman of the council, etc. I made a small piece of work and got 14 of our colleagues from the Riigikogu, of whom quite a few are still sitting here, many are not. Tarmo Kruus Mountains are for no reason. If I look, Igor Kravchenko is here, Hardi Volmer is here. Thomas looks there, Tanel Talve is there, Helmut Hallemaa looks back at me, and Märt Sults is there. [[Addressing the hall.]] No, you're not here because you've been a minister before and a member of the Riigikogu you don't qualify. But that's it. I asked the Minister of Defense who these agents were and if there was any evidence. I'll read the questions we asked. First: 'Did the statement by the Director General of the Foreign Intelligence Directorate that his office has identified a network of politicians who are Russian agents and are doing what the Kremlin commands, who Russia has contributed a great deal to, and we can clearly see that these people are running the Russian agenda in the Riigikogu and the government? 'The second question: 'Who of the following members of the Riigikogu (I am not going to name these names, everyone can read the names of P. E.) are Russian influence agents who do what the Kremlin says? " Third: Has the government of the Republic been the Russian agent Martin Repinski? ' Fourthly, as Minister of Defence, what have you done to put an end to the activities of Russian agents in the Government of the Republic and the Riigikogu? ' And the last question: 'If the claims of the Director General of the Foreign Intelligence Office, under your command, are not true, have you considered the possibility of dismissing the Head of Intelligence for unjust defamation of high officials? 'Well, the point is, the Director General of Foreign Intelligence is under the command of the Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-17_U12	Ladies and gentlemen of the Bureau, your time is up.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-17_U13	Yeah, I'm done. So we look forward to hearing from the honourable Minister of Defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-17_U14	Thank you. Please respond to this inquiry, Secretary of Defense Jüri Luige!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-17_U15	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! As Minister of Defence, the task has fallen to answer an inquiry, an inquiry on the topic 'Russian Agents in the Riigikogu and the Government'. Dear Mr. Ernits! Honourable other heirs, heirs! You have presented me with an inquiry into the presentation of Mikk Marran, Director General of the Foreign Intelligence Directorate, at the very prestigious Aspen Security Forum on 20 July 2018. We are talking about a presentation that took the form of a panel of conversations that dealt with Russia's aggressive methods of relations with the outside world. In addition to military equipment, Mikk Marran also mentioned the use of influence agents in his speech. This is one of the recognised working methods of the Russian State, where in another society influential individuals are used to weaken the country and to impose Russian positions. Broadly speaking, influence agents are divided into three groups: persons who receive direct responsibilities from Russian government agencies; those who do this for economic gain or political success, but do not receive direct orders; and those who can be called useful idiots who simply repeat aggressive opinions because they believe in them. I would stress in context that the Director-General Marran appeared before specialists. He was talking about methods, he didn't name any politicians in any country. The subject of influence agents is not new in magazines and presentations. It is true that, in relation to Russia's active activities, this issue has been somewhat activated. Inquiries have taken some elements of the speech and tried to determine whether there are Russian agents in the Riigikogu and the government. All these names and conclusions belong to the heirs. I understand it's mainly for Peter Ernitsa. All of this is total speculation and I have no reason or competence to comment on it. However, I would like to stress that the Foreign Intelligence Board does not spy in Estonia or, in other words, counterintelligence, which is why a specific statement cannot apply in any way to Estonia. In addition, Mikk Marran's speech can be clearly understood that this is not about Estonia. As you know, in the Republic of Estonia counterintelligence is carried out by the Defence Police Department. The Department of Foreign Intelligence only provides counter-intelligence for the protection of its employees, persons involved in cooperation and its premises. Thus, the Foreign Intelligence Board cannot have any information about Estonian politicians and the Director General of the Foreign Intelligence Board has never claimed this. The text you have referred to does not concern Estonia, but it is also possible to understand Western Europe clearly when reading the presentation of the Director General as a whole. The Foreign Intelligence Board is responsible for collecting information concerning foreign countries, foreign factors or activities, in accordance with the Security Authorities Act, in order to protect Estonia's security. One such threat is certainly the influence of the Russian Federation in Europe. The FTC has repeatedly written about this in its public reports as well as shared information with partners in other countries. It is very important that European countries and the US understand the risks posed by Russia's influence. The activities of impact agents can be most effectively prevented by exposing them and by raising public awareness of these influence methods. 24 July Eesti Päevaleht also published the presentation of the Director General of the Foreign Intelligence Board in Estonian. All those passages that we're talking about, there's black in white. I am not going to read them out here in terms of time savings, but it is clear that we are talking about Western Europe. I was informed that the Estonian version of the speech had been published without prior agreement. It was, as usual at the Aspen conference, a panel attendance, or a free conversation on important topics. I also have an English version of this speech. So the curiosity of those who want to go into detail, I can satisfy by quoting words or a whole paragraph of this report, if necessary. However, I will say one sentence where the nuance is explained in English, i.e. more precisely and better than the Estonian translation. Politicians who were on the verge of local politics a few years ago have now reached Parliament or government in English here are plural, i.e. governments and parliaments, and we can see clearly that these people are driving Russian agendas there in those parliaments and governments. Russia also recruits Western politicians. Now I will also answer the specific questions. Is it true that the Director General of the Foreign Intelligence Directorate claimed that his office has identified a network of politicians who are Russian influence agents? Answer: The Director General of the VLA spoke clearly and unambiguously about Western Europe in an article published in the Aspen Security Forum on 20 July 2018 as well as in the 24 July Eesti Päevaleht, without making any reference to the Riigikogu or the Government of the Republic. Points two and three concern names that have been developed by the inquisitors. Are there Russian influence agents among these members of the Riigikogu and has there been a Russian influence agent in the Government of the Republic? The answer is, as secretary of defense, I don't have that kind of information, I don't know how to comment on it. But I can also say that I have no reason to think that either. What have you done, Mr Minister, to put an end to the activities of Russian agents in the Government of the Republic and the Riigikogu? Again, I do not have the information that Russian influence agents are operating in the Government of the Republic or in the Riigikogu, so I do not have to do anything. And the last question: 'If the claims of the Director General of the Foreign Intelligence Office, under your command, are not true, have you considered the possibility of dismissing the Head of Intelligence for unjust defamation of high state officials? ' As I have already said, there is no reference to the Estonian Riigikogu or the Government of the Republic in Mikk Marran's speech. Mr Marran addressed the problems in Western Europe and I have absolutely no reason to take any action on the Director-General. The Director-General is doing his job very well. Finally, let me have another little remark. I've been to dozens of conferences. There is always talk about this issue, and it is always dealt with more or less in the same form in general, because intelligence never names countries, never names people, that is why it is intelligence. And if you take this speech and say that these words, such as 'participants in local politics', mean these names, I think it is completely incomprehensible. As I said, there are dozens, if not hundreds, of articles about Russia's influence. It's a reality. Mikk Marran, as Director General of Intelligence, has to deal with this issue. To define this I do not know for what reasons as a topic concerning the Estonian Riigikogu or government, as I said, is deeply and deeply incomprehensible to me, but of course the heirs have every right to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-17_U16	Thank you, Secretary of Defense Jüri Luik! You have questions too. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-17_U17	Aren't the heirs before? Thank you, Minister. Of course, Mikk Marran doesn't talk about countries or names and questioning, that question was stupid. But since you, as your minister, are in charge of this administration, tell me which patterns Mikk Marran is talking about. What are Russia's preferences when it comes to realising its influence - which parties, topics they prefer internationally?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-17_U18	Thank you. As I said, this is all part of the field of foreign intelligence and more than Mikk has explained in his speech, and he has remained very general, which is natural for the head of foreign intelligence. I would not like to add any more details here, but I can assure you that Russia's influence is well-informed, thorough, well-organized, well-funded and is being dealt with very widely across Europe.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-17_U19	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-17_U20	Good manager! Good Minister, thank you for your answer, but you're not really telling the truth. Read this text. I also talked to people who have written analysis. See what words it starts with: 'We have identified a network'. Western Europe and everything, including Russia recruiting Western politicians, will only come at the end and in such a form that it is very difficult to say that the previous text 'we have identified the head of intelligence' applies to this. My question, however, is whether you will continue to believe that this text speaks specifically of Western Europe and other things. However, this will come back to Western Europe and everything else.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-17_U21	Thank you. I will stick to my position as I described it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-17_U22	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-17_U23	Thank you. Good minister! It is clear that Russia's influence in Europe is a reality, as well as attempts to influence elections and policy content. And it is not quite non-existent that Estonian parliamentary politicians or politicians in general also take positions that are undoubtedly very fond of the Kremlin. We have politicians in this Parliament who have called for sanctions to be lifted. And the Secretary-General of one of the parties has said that NATO is unnecessary, and one Member of the European Parliament praises Putin in almost every possible way. We also have another group that wants Estonia to step out of the European Union and, at the same time, is actively friends with extremists who praise Mussolini and Putin. I would very much like to hope that this is all a coincidence and that the views coincide with the Kremlin by chance. But can we be sure to the end that this is a coincidence?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-17_U24	Thank you. As has been said, I do not want to go into any details here, because I will answer the question about this report, which does not deal with Estonian politics, the Estonian Riigikogu or the government of the Republic of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-17_U25	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-17_U26	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I'm not gonna hang around here with a questioner, I guess I'll do it on calls. But the question for you now is this: is Estonian foreign intelligence such a powerful organisation that it exposes intelligence networks all over Europe, perhaps all over the world?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-17_U27	The answer is yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-17_U28	Jaanus Marrand, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-17_U29	Thank you! Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. This inquiry is based on strange assumptions, some conference report, and is an arbitrary interpretation of this report, as I understand your answers. Similarly, the desire to ridicule the Estonian intelligence service, Estonia's activities in defending independence and processing data is a feeling of this understanding. It somehow coincides with one such Kremlin and Russian rhetoric, which tries to ridicule Estonian intelligence services in the same way. Extreme conservatives have often been called Kremlin's useful idiots, and the author of this presentation has moved from the Centre Party to the extreme conservaties. Does it not seem to you that this activity is precisely useful for the Kremlin to give a substance to ridicule Estonian services?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-17_U30	Thank you. There is no way to ridicule Estonian services; there is no way to underestimate them. In any case, in order to get a broader view of the work of External Intelligence, I recommend that you read their yearbooks, which really have a very methodological and thorough description of what they are doing. I repeat: there is no way to underestimate their level; they are totally world-class players. I am talking about both Estonian foreign intelligence and the defence police.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-17_U31	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-17_U32	Thank you. Thank you for that answer. The ordinary Estonian person does not view these words as a conference report; he reads one of the largest daily newspapers in Estonia. And one of Estonia's major daily newspapers says that politicians who were on the verge of local politics have now reached parliament or government in a singularity. Western Europe will only be mentioned in the next paragraph. This means that ordinary Estonian people are told to be vigilant, we have Russian influence agents in this Parliament, without anyone specifically mentioned, in such a way that a person does not have the opportunity to defend himself. Such an article, as it appeared in one of Estonia's major daily newspapers, is very clearly political. It's an intervention in politics, it's an atmosphere of suspicion. Don't you think this is an activity that foreign intelligence shouldn't do? Is this too much political interference?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-17_U33	Thank you. Absolutely not. As I said, this was a report on trends in Russian influence. And I'm pretty sure this article wouldn't have been noticed at all if Peter Ernits or the other inquisitors hadn't come up with it, adding all these names, which is why it became some kind of, I'd say, political aziotage. It was a very long, detailed presentation in a very general tone. I am absolutely certain that none of the readers interpreted it in the way you have now explained.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-17_U34	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-17_U35	Thank you. Good minister! I'm gonna go ahead with Jürgen Ligi. I am not really talking about Estonia, but I am asking for your personal assessment. You have certainly been in contact with Russia's areas of influence, both before the Minister's office and in the Minister's office. We know that the Kremlin's interest is, in fact, to weaken the European Union and the Member States of the European Union, to split the European Union's cooperation, using extremes. I am therefore asking what you believe are the main issues that Russia is using in its influence. What are these themes and topics? Then we do not need to talk specifically about Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-17_U36	Thank you. As I said, there are two main themes. One is what really concerns extremism. It often aims at breaking the 'internal fabric' of a democratic society, say, breaking consensus and stressing extremism. In this case, it does not even matter what the question is. As you have seen, an operation was discovered in the United States, for example, where Russia supported and opposed the vaccination of children. In fact, it was absolutely not related to the Russian state as such, but by putting the two issues to the extreme, it was tried to strain society's perceptions of some very, very important health of children after all! On a subject that is not directly politically relevant. This was examined by American medical personnel, who were fascinated by the fact that there were huge numbers of pros and counter-articles appearing on the subject. And the second issue is all that is directly relevant to Russian policy and to explain Russian policy. Of course, it is particularly actively trying to address hotter international issues, such as Ukraine and many other such issues. These are also targets for a very active policy of influence. So I would say that there are two of these basic pillars. But, of course, there are a lot of sub-points and sub-topics on this subject that we could talk about forever.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-17_U37	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-17_U38	Thank you, good manager. Good Secretary of Defense! I look at this circle of inquisitives and it stands out that it is two political parties, or representatives of the EKRE and the Centre Party. I have a question for you. Maybe there's something you can do to make sense of why these two parties have undertaken to attack the foreign intelligence message that there's a network of Kremlin agents somewhere? The likely answer would probably be that one has an agreement with the United Russia and the other talks about leaving the European Union and its doom, which is clearly the Kremlin agenda. But maybe you can offer something that might be the reason in your view?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-17_U39	Thank you. I honestly don't think you believe I'm gonna answer that question. But let's say so much that, as an answer to an inquiry, as a minister, I am not fit to analyse in any way the political affiliation of the heirs.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-17_U40	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-17_U41	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! Following the publication of this article, Mr Laari and Tsahkna's accusations against some of our politicians also appeared immediately in the press. This shows that this statement by Mr Marran still had a direct effect.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-17_U42	Thank you. I really don't know how to comment on that.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-17_U43	Minister, there are no further questions for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-17_U44	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-17_U45	I'm opening negotiations. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-17_U46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you very much. Interesting is in this hall. Actually, it's simple. When, on 22 July, the news came that we have identified a network, I am not talking about journalists, diplomats and business figures who have reached Parliament, the Riigikogu, or the government, then a real bomb exploded. On the 24th, the full text was published in the Daily Paper, in 23rd, the Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, a good colleague of Marko Mihkelson, confirmed that yes, that it is. On the 25th, the recent Secretary of Defense, Margus Tsahkna, came up with a long story, discussing who is still an agent and who is a useful idiot. And the former Secretary of Defense, under the command of the Foreign Intelligence Service, has already identified names. Look! Arnold Rüütel, Yana Toom, Oudekki Loone, Heimar Lenk and Martin Helme. I would like to stress that this is a recent Minister of Defence. And in order not to remain superficial, I could quote him, but everyone can see for themselves what the former Minister of Defence has said about Martin Helme, for example. The second wave really came when I sent an inquiry to the minister on August 6. There was no answer. On the 22nd, we did an inquiry on behalf of the ambassadors and, oh, a miracle, the next day came the answer, which we have now heard here. But what happened next? Already on the 27th, four days later, the Head of the Foreign Intelligence Office was in Postimees and said that he had not really said anything like that. Hey, guys, read the text! Everything in the text is clearly stated, only a fool doesn't understand. He says that we have identified a network, and in the next paragraph there is such a sentence that Russia is also trying to recruit Western politicians. It's perfectly clear. When I say that I have identified this and this as the head of intelligence, for example, I will talk in detail about who gets orders from there or from another place, and I am not saying that I have identified all of this somewhere in Western Europe, America, Africa and so on, that is the way to take it. And that is how the Estonian public has taken it in two months. Read these comments, look! It seems to me, although I am not a proponent of conspiracy theory, that this is actually a coordinated step to attack certain political forces. Look at those who have come out quickly. A few days later, a former Minister for Defence, a good colleague, Margus Tsahkna, will appear, who is already giving names. Then, on August 22, after we submitted this inquiry, a few days later, the Head of Foreign Intelligence said that he had not said so. He said the same thing that the current Secretary of Defense told us. Read the text and you will see that it cannot be understood in two ways. Laughing. It was claimed that the inquisitors had not understood the matter and were trying to make some kind of joke around here. On the contrary, there is no plan. At least I don't, and I don't think any of the other heirs have it either. But why wasn't it explained later? Why didn't the Secretary of Defense and Head of Foreign Intelligence come in earlier with a story? For a month, the waves were allowed to rage calmly, and then it was said that upsti, we have not said anything like that, we were talking about Western Europe or foreign countries. It's not like that. Black is black and white is white. Can't say it's the other way around. And when that wave came, when Mikk Marran announced that he hadn't said anything like that, the former intelligence coordinator, a good colleague of Eerik-Niles Kross, said, "Don't beat up the Foreign Intelligence Office." Kross has already added such a personal...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-17_U47	Ladies and gentlemen, would you like some extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-17_U48	Thank you. Yes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-17_U49	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-17_U50	Eerik-Niles said that when the Foreign Intelligence Office identified... Oh, he's actually referring to the Central Party involved in the United Russia Treaty, without saying any names. I think there's a vilely thrown stone here right now, looking at how the action is, how the blame is and what's being said. And after MEPs have made an inquiry, which is also being ridiculed here, they say that upsti, we have not said anything like that. But the work has already been done, caused by so-called reputational damage and doubts. My opinion is that if our Foreign Intelligence Office is as powerful as the Secretary of Defense confirms, their unofficial slogan should be 'Estonian Foreign Intelligence Board knows Kremlin's plans before the Kremlin itself', the sentence of Mikk Marran. If he has identified something in some countries, then he has also informed the special services of these countries. I don't know, maybe Latvia, Slovenia or some other country's foreign intelligence agency is such a network, I stress, also in Estonia. I'd like to know if this has been confirmed and if the job is already in the DA's office and the D.A.P.D. So, in my opinion, this is a deliberate sabotage, a violation of the reputation of certain political opponents. This must actually be acknowledged, not said that we were talking about something else and that some Members have misunderstood the matter and are now trying to ridicule the Foreign Intelligence Office. Far from that, however, the Department of Foreign Intelligence must not be involved in such agencies yet. Vilja Kiisler of Postimees has said very well about this: Marran's idiots. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-17_U51	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-17_U52	President-in-Office of the Council. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Peter has already turned down a number of points, which I was going to say, but I will continue and expand the subject. The extension of the topic is more fundamental, more fundamental in terms of Estonia's security and the preservation of the Estonian people. In fact, we have this talk all the time about someone like Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin and Russia, but Estonia's security is not just about Russia. The security of Estonia is also a threat to those whom we call allies at all times on this platform. Why? For a very simple reason: if Russia wants to destroy our country, the ideology that is being imported to us, and which we have been declared to be the only one, is intended to destroy our nation. Mr Verhofstadt, Mr Cohn-Bendit, Mr Claude, whatever his name is, Juncker, and Merkel have not made it a secret that Europe must move to a post-ethnic era. There is some kind of European manifesto written together, which, by the way, is also signed by Indrek Tarand, who is also very clearly in favour of nationalities disappearing. The nations must disappear. Now, my question is, and this is a very fundamental question, whether our External Action Service is also revealing those direct employees and otherwise useful idiots who consider the destruction of the Estonian nation to be their task in serving the loyal European Commission. That is a very fundamental question. I don't hear an answer because there's no answer. No one's gonna expose these agents. Just as no one reveals, for example, Chinese agents, who, by the way, have many in Estonia. Just as no one reveals American agents, who also have many in Estonia. We're only talking about agents from one country that need to be taken down. I agree, one hundred percent, that an independent, sovereign state, a nation state called the Republic of Estonia cannot be limited to throwing some accusations into the air in the Russian agency. This is a completely unbalanced approach and ends badly for us. It ends very badly for us because we let others destroy us. Finally, of course, Peter is one hundred percent right. Mikk Marran and his office clearly intervened in internal politics; they must not do so. Like the CIA, American Foreign Intelligence, you can't interfere with domestic politics in the United States, so you can't interfere with our internal foreign intelligence policy. This was clearly done in this case. This is confirmed by the articles, all the rumors that have arisen, and also by this inquiry. And why was that done? The society on my right has left this hall unanimously, because they find that their work has been done to the accused and that they no longer need to sit or jerk off here. They've gone unanimously, but this whole thing has been done for the sake of this company. And it is extremely embarrassing that an institution that has to guarantee Estonia's security in this way is manipulating internal politics. What's there to say? It's not like our hands are short right now, but if we're in the government, we're not gonna make promises like this. Finally, the reply to the two ambassadors of the Reform Party who have left here very satisfiedly: we, the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, have never said anywhere that we intend to step out of the European Union. Is there an extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-17_U53	Yeah. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-17_U54	Thank you. We have clearly said that we are against the European Empire. We support Europe as a community of nation states. We support Europe as a community of sovereign nation states. We do not support a Europe that hijacks our country step by step. We see every week in this Chamber how some kind of directive takes a piece of our sovereignty away from us again. We do not support the withdrawal of sovereignty from nation states. We want a Europe of nation states. If that's a crime, if that means we're Russian agents, then for God's sake, we are. But we have every right to do so, and no one has the right to mock us for it and to say that we are Orthodox. Unlike the Reform Party, we don't have the VEB Fund on our backs. Our ministers were not in the government when the massive money laundering began. Our ministers have not demolished Estonia's education system and are not currently helping to bring it to a level of bilingualism. There is no point in coming with a finger to show those who have not done the things they are accused of. Finally. Mr. Secretary of Defense, give foreign intelligence under your authority the task of dealing with all agents of influence. And maybe we could narrow this areal a little bit, let's not do it on a global scale, let's just limit ourselves to the scale of Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-17_U55	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-17_U56	Ladies and gentlemen, We see a sad example of what happens when secret services start interfering in politics. This is exactly the kind of situation where very serious accusations are thrown into the air, so politicians, politicians and members of the government do not act on behalf of their own country and their own people, but act on behalf of some other or third country in such a way that they cannot be protected because foreign intelligence, of course, does not release data. In that case, he should not say anything either, because politics can only be done in public. However, anyone who is currently critical of the current status quo will be successfully discredited. This, unfortunately, we also heard today about the answer to our questioning, where the real problem was very nicely bypassed. They said, "Take a look at the vaccines." After all, the debate is, in itself, the foundation of democracy, that we have radical and contradictory positions that we are discussing in the public domain, and that is how the people will vote, and that is how Western democracy works. If we say that the hairy hand of the Kremlin is at stake in discussing these views without any concrete evidence, we are making clues, it is something that is destroying our democracy, which is destroying our freedom. This is a very dangerous tendency, especially when such references and opinions are made by organisations that aim at something else that can never be aimed at public intervention. We take foreign intelligence, as well as the defence police, whom we promise to publish yearbooks, to make big presentations, to comment on politics, to go up to that point, to let them say that people here may have an economic interest in doing business with Russia. I hope that, in the case of the current German government, some steps have then also been taken, looking at their interest in doing business with Russia. If all this is discredited, we can't do politics anymore, we can just keep the status quo. Such clues, whether they were deliberately made or simply stumbled upon by the head of foreign intelligence in his report, should not stumble! just bring us into a world where basically we can't make changes. And if we cannot make democratic changes, these changes will be made by violent, undemocratic and very brutal methods. We should prevent that. And it can only be prevented so that we can freely discuss all the issues without the 'influence agents' on the labels immediately and without the secret services commenting on what politicians are doing. After all, politicians must justify their behaviour; representatives of the secret services are protected for clear reasons. I therefore also join this proposal to perhaps make an amendment here: to stop publishing yearbooks and thereby influencing policies and speaking on domestic policy issues. This is something that is not appropriate for a democratic state. More than that, it's dangerous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-17_U57	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The answer to the inquiry is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-17_U58	Next, a free microphone, the speaker can be registered after the President of the sitting has hit the hammer. March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-17_U59	Good President! Colleagues! I have been very rebelling by now, driving around South-East Estonia and South-Estonia and ultimately analysing and seeing the results, consequences and methodologies of the administrative reform. And just as the local authorities were promised last year, this is exactly the kind of draft I will now be preparing. I mean, today I'm gonna mark this event. We are talking about the apple of contention between Setomaa and Räpina rural municipality, i.e. Mikitamäe and Lüübnitsa village. We're talking about Otepää, Ülenurme parish and renaming. We have to create an exception. I mean, it is not possible to foresee all things by law, just as it is not by the law of administrative reform. It is now time to take up the righting points and draft legislation, because people must be given the opportunity to maintain their geographical position and identity. This is especially true of Setomaa. To date, a precedent has been established for the example of the pulp mill and Tartumaa. The opinion of the people is important, and the opinion of the people can be influenced if properly presented and manipulated. The opinion of the people is exactly the same in Setomaa, Otepää and Tartu County. And the saddest of all: there have all been these popular initiatives, but they have not been taken into account. So in the forthcoming draft, the important thing is that people can be in their county and in their region where they have wanted to be and where they should be. I mean, it doesn't make sense if the county border goes in the middle of the village from one street, so there's one side and the other side. So this bill is working, and it's gonna be in the big hall soon. Don't give up hope, people of Mikitamäe! Don't give up hope, Otepää people! We have to put it on the right track. And always, a minor correction of errors shows that the law is not bad, but that the law never provides for all exceptions. So the strength to work for us and the good autumn!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-17_U60	Thank you, Mr. Sults! There are no more calls. Monday's session is adjourned. Happy working week, everybody! Closure of the sitting at 3.59 p.m.
