ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U1	Good morning, Reverend Riigikogu. The session of the 8th working week of the VIIIth plenary session will begin with the referral of drafts and enquiries. Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. On behalf of six members of the Group of the Estonian Free Party, it is my honour and pleasure to present an inquiry to the Minister of Culture, Indrek Saare. This inquiry concerns the procedures for electing a member of the board of the Estonian Concert Foundation and the conclusions to be drawn from them. There was a time when the election of a member of the board of the Estonian Concert took both the headlines and the aether of newspapers. It's over now, it's over. In fact, the Minister's decision of 30 October to disband the Council is complete. So, what's the problem? The question is that, having worked in institutions that deal with folklore for a very long time, I know that those things that are not open to the end will become a source of folklore. On this basis, and precisely in order to avoid any further confusion and collusion that may arise because of the appointment of the members of the board of directors of a foundation established by one country and the election procedures, we have six questions. Among other things, we want to hear the conclusions of the Minister and the Ministry on the whole procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U3	Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U4	Thank you, good vice chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, There are two drafts to be delivered. The first is the draft law amending the language law, signed by Tarmo Kruusimäe, Helir-Valdor Seeder, Priit Sibul, Madis Milling and Hardi Volmer. We made the work of the Committee on Culture easier, and we kept the maximum amount of coercive money for natural persons the same, and we reduced it by legal persons compared to the previous proposal. The second draft law is the so-called empty bill. It is quite a shame that the European authors, performers and everyone else receive the present-day fee for an empty tape, but we here in Estonia disperse branches, apparently live with Estonian authors, but we refuse to update these data. I will tell you in advance that the sums you will be told are not what Estonian authors and performers really expect. I look forward to your support for both drafts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U5	On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two draft laws and one inquiry. The Management Board will continue to operate in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, presence check, please! There are 67 delegates present in the sitting.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U6	We will begin the debate on the points on today's agenda and first we will discuss an important national issue. The governing board of the Riigikogu has laid down procedures for this purpose. First of all, Kert Kingo (up to 15 minutes) is a presentation of the former criminal investigator of the Criminal Department of the Police and Border Guard Board and of the former Special Procedure Attorney of the Tax and Customs Board, and then there are questions and answers (up to 20 minutes). Secondly, Tibar & Partners is a presentation (up to 15 minutes) and questions and answers (up to 20 minutes) by attorney-at-law Urmas Simon. Then there is the presentation (up to 15 minutes) and questions and answers (up to 20 minutes) by Leo Kunman, the long-time judge of Harju County Court. Fourthly, Martin Helme, Chairman of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, will give a presentation (up to 15 minutes) and questions and answers (up to 10 minutes). A member of the Riigikogu can and may ask up to two questions to any rapporteur. After the presentations and questions have been answered, I will open negotiations, all members of the Riigikogu and representatives of committees and political groups may take part in speeches. At the request of the EKRE Group, I propose that the Riigikogu first speak with the representatives of the political groups. At the end of the discussion, the Riigikogu will not take a decision. Just in case, I will also mention the title of a key national issue: 'State founded on freedom, justice and justice'. I would like to ask for a chair of speech from the former criminal investigator of the Police and Border Guard Board and from the former Special Procedure Attorney of the Tax and Customs Board, Kert Kingo. There are up to 15 minutes for the presentation. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U7	Ladies and gentlemen, please. I am talking about an issue that fades Estonia's existence as a rule of law, about the proliferation of corruption in our country, whose transfers are almost everywhere and which undermines the position of our country as a rule of law. Corruptive behaviour and action are experienced by ordinary citizens at almost every step of the way in which they exercise or defend their rights. We have set up a network in the country to fight corruption, set up various councils and associations. The structure of all public bodies, credit institutions and local authorities is set up by entities whose main task is to fight corruption, to prevent and detect corruption. I am referring here to internal control departments or services, audit departments or committees. However, for some reason, there are no significant results, on the contrary, corruption is getting worse and its scale is increasing. I am focusing here on public authorities and local authorities, because they are the seedbeds of corruption, they are the starting point for corruption, and because of their area and responsibility, they have a favourable ground for corruption. Given that the decision-making powers and the scope of the powers conferred are the greatest for the heads of the institution, it is a prerequisite and an opportunity for those who work in a leading position to act corruptly. How is the work of internal control units structured in the authorities, and why is it neither self-justification nor justification in any way? First, according to the structure of the institution, all entities involved in internal control, i.e. supervision, are directly subordinate to the head of the institution, the minister, the chancellor, the Director General, the mayor or the mayor of the municipality. Thus, internal control staff are dependent on the employer; they are dependent on the employer in their activities. In their work, they should be guided, inter alia, by anti-corruption law and accountable to their immediate leader, while at the same time taking into account the impact of their actions on the employer's position. On the one hand, they should detect and prevent the corrupt behaviour of managers, but at the same time, when they discover it, there is a situation of undermining their employer's feet. As has already been said, it is in the case of drivers that the assumption and the possibility of them acting corruptly is the greatest. It is not possible to serve two gods at once. It is evident that today, no head of the institution is interested in making the corruption that has taken place or is taking place under its responsibility public. This would damage the reputation of the institution, or exemplary image, which is so hard to design. Today, it is the creation of a beautiful image that has become a priority, not an honest and transparent action. Thus internal control is basically toothless in the fight against corruption. In dedicating to his work, an official may sooner or later face a possible loss of employment. Secondly, according to the Civil Service Act, disciplinary proceedings can only be initiated by an order or order from the head of the institution, i.e. disciplinary proceedings are decided and authorised by the Director-General or the Mayor or other person in charge of the institution. How can internal control in such a situation lead to disciplinary action against the head of a corrupt institution? Although all cases of corruption do not fall within the competence of internal control personnel, it is necessary to collect internal evidence in advance, even in order to provide information on the infringement to the investigating authority. However, in order to gather evidence and to carry out the initial procedures for the detection of the infringement, authorisation to initiate disciplinary proceedings is first necessary, i.e. the order or order of the direct manager, i.e. the head of the institution. Without following this procedure, it is likely that the worker would be the subject of an unlawful processing procedure because he abused access to the computer, telephone calls and various databases and data contained therein. Consequently, due to the current structure of internal control and the current law, corruption cannot be combated. These units are designed to fight seemingly corruption. Internal control departments have therefore become well-paid comfort jobs, which aim to give the impression of fighting corruption without being actually dealt with. Of course, these same comfortable jobs are filled with elected and loyal people; the managers of internal control units are designated as safe persons whose views coincide with the personal views of the head of the institution and who have appropriate recommendations. The fact that these persons often lack any expected competence to carry out their work is not important. What, then, is the internal control of public authorities and local authorities mostly doing today? In order to justify their existence and to keep the impression that there is a major fight against corruption, they are engaged in repression of workers. Workers are unduly bullied by blaming them for a violation of their duties, for example by looking at data contained in databases in a situation where the acts complained of were necessary for the performance of a specific task given by the direct manager. These repression methods are used for workers who have the courage to draw attention to or express their views on the driver's violations, as such employees are troublesome to the management. Internal control units have become penalty bodies to help managers get rid of cumbersome workers through disciplinary procedures. These are all the reasons why internal control departments, in their current form, do not justify themselves and corruption flourishes. There is no law in our country. The citizen will not be helped to defend his rights. Although there are law enforcement authorities that have a legal obligation to stand up for law-abiding and prosecute offenders, this does not work in everyday life. I'm talking about Police and Border Guard, more specifically the criminal police. I must say with disappointment that today, the level of work of the criminal police that he should respond to and is expected of him is not the same. The police are starting criminal proceedings against individuals selectively. Although the law states that if the circumstances of the crime are to be observed, this does not apply to all persons. Citizens are treated unequally. Let me give you a concrete example. The former mayor and the current deputy mayor, together with two friends from the PRIA, defrauded their non-profit institutions with various grants amounting to almost 1 million euros. In the sense of the law, he committed a charm. The fact that the fraud was committed was acknowledged and acknowledged by the PRIA, confirming the motivation and composition of the crime and calling for the reimbursement of the amounts committed. But the criminal police found that there was no incentive or basis for criminal prosecution, and they didn't start the trial. As a second reason, the police pointed out that since the crime will expire in a year's time, it would not be appropriate to start the procedure. At the same time, the police have started criminal proceedings on exactly the same facts against a private limited company for fraud of EUR 40000 from the PRIA. The difference was only that the person against whom the proceedings were brought was a citizen without a position and therefore probably without influence. All of the above activities were carried out in cooperation with the prosecutor's office and with the knowledge of the prosecutor's office. According to the law, the pre-trial procedure is run by the prosecutor's office. Unfortunately, the D.A.'s office goes beyond the powers conferred on it by law. Every police detective is assigned a certain prosecutor for cooperation, a "family prosecutor." Instead of discussing possible evidence and different procedural tactics as a single team in order to successfully resolve the crime, the prosecutor's office has started to direct the proceedings on the basis of its own interests, the interests of its acquaintances or the interests of the ruling clique. The prosecutor's office is the one who gives the police instructions not to start or terminate the procedure. The prosecutor's instructions have become mandatory for enforcement; if they are ignored, the police officer is threatened with disciplinary proceedings involving sanctions. The detention for 48 hours or even longer arrests cannot be ruled out as sanctions. There's no problem finding the cause and the basis, they're being searched. I know of a case when a police officer received a disciplinary sentence for the fact that one of the files was accidentally unnumbered. He was accused of having been forgery. Worked as an exemplary detective for years, he left the job of his own will on a daily basis, thus avoiding his own possible involvement between the detention centre and the pre-trial prison. No one controls the activities of the Public Prosecutor's Office, there is no supervision over them, and in principle they are no longer responsible for anything. However, police internal control services have become an extension and tool for the prosecutor's office when it is necessary to put pressure on individual responsible police officers to obey or to give orders as conscientiously ordered. That's not the way it's supposed to be. This is not the rule of law. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U8	There are also questions for the rapporteur. Please, Martin Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U9	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Dear waitress, What, then, are the opportunities for executive power or for legislative power to improve the situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U10	If you are referring to the general fight against corruption, including internal control activities, internal control units must be removed from direct control by the heads of institutions. When working under the authority of its leader, it is not possible to carry out its work objectively, and no results or achievements can be expected from it. This is a question of the future of how to accurately reorganize the whole system. At present, there is little love to talk about how the potential activities of internal control personnel are already being suppressed by law. The same goes for the prosecution's office and the police. There is a need to review the area of responsibility, accountability and supervision and finally try to achieve a situation where, for example, the prosecutor's office can be controlled.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U11	Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U12	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, A very thoughtful and worrying presentation with all these examples. But can we deduce from these examples, which you also brought about about the prosecutor's office (it either slipped past my ears or you didn't talk about) that the prosecutor's office has clearly become a political instrument used against certain political forces and for the benefit of certain political forces? In the case of the prosecutor's office, can we also clearly see the hand of the 'in-depth' state, or special services, in guiding them when legal initiatives are initiated?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U13	Undisputed. As I have already pointed out in my report, the procedure and proceedings in criminal matters are based on selectivity, i.e. privileged persons and persons without an advantage. The press has shown that in certain cases nothing is noticed or reflected, but in certain cases where the infringement was perhaps not worth half the attention of the prosecutor's office, it is very much reflected. I can give you a concrete example of life. The daily problem is family violence, on which the prosecutor's office has taken a position, which in turn has been communicated to the police to avoid proceeding. There are different reasons: whether it is said that it is not advisable to invade family life, or whether it is argued that it is often the women who have suffered, usually, who want to end the procedure later. At the same time, violence is based on the assumption that there must be grounds for believing that the threater will carry out his threat, whether he has done so in the past or has already taken action to do so. A very good example of this has been a case some time ago when criminal proceedings were started on a pure surface that the person promised to put the head of a horse in the bed of the Prime Minister of that time. As an ex-investigator, I don't see the person who wrote the comment that he's putting a horse's head on the bed. The person who wrote this had not been punished in the first place; he had never been arrested for threats or murder. There was no reason to believe that he would carry out his activities; there was no reason to believe that he was capable of doing so at all. The fact that the horse's head is placed in bed does not, in itself, imply any act of violence. It also shows how the prosecutor's office and the police are not governed by law. Yes, in certain cases, criminal proceedings are really being opened out of political interest, because it is necessary, but if it really is necessary to start proceedings, the usual sentence is that there is no element of crime.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U14	Andres Metsoja.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U15	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! My question is about this area that you have personally been dealing with for a very long time. I am saying that you have dealt with my persecution. You and EKRE have participated in the proceedings of one decision of the City Council of Pärnu in more or less all legal institutions. You've sued the Chancellor of Justice, you've sued the Central Criminal Police, you've sued the DA's office, you've been to this house on the Special Anti-Corruption Committee. You have received a very clear message from all sides that Andres Metsoja has not broken the law when deciding on a general act. You will come here today with a very serious issue and focus on the national legal order. My question directly concerns whether you believe that a false complaint is punishable in the same way and must be held accountable for it in exactly the same way as a corruption crime.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U16	If we're talking about your case, it's not a false complaint. For every thinking citizen, it is perfectly understandable that when a person proposes to raise his or her salary to a rather large extent, votes in favour and participates in this decision-making process, it is a corrupt activity because the personal interests of the person are represented there. The fact that the City Council has formalised it as a general act, or regulation, is a legal formalisation. The activity itself is corrupt. There is no way this is a false complaint, no matter how it is not attempted to show it to be legally correct. But there is certainly a clause in the Corridor Code on a false complaint that can be held responsible for giving false statements. However, when it comes to the fact that it is necessary to identify the general procedure, I am talking about the will of a person, that he deliberately and knowingly made a false complaint, rather than misunderstood, it is difficult to prove it. It is therefore difficult to deal with these matters and to deal with them. There is virtually no way to prove intent.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U17	Hardi Volmer.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U18	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Do you know that there are citizens in Estonia who sit in a closed house on the basis of a purely arbitrary accusation?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U19	I have to say, unfortunately, I don't remember them right now. I really can't tell right now. The next waitress will probably tell you more about it. These arbitrary accusations are also different. In order to strengthen the composition of the crime against the offender, to be sure that it is possible to place it in a detention facility, there are some minor violations that ultimately support the idea that it is still a very dangerous person and that it needs to be put in a detention facility. But I really can't tell you any concrete examples right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U20	Please, Olga Ivanova!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U21	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! You gave a very interesting example of the PRIA case, but I wanted to know your opinion on the situation that has arisen at the Narva Council. We've all read about this in the media. More specific circumstances, I suppose, neither I nor you know. But what role does the media play in this case and how the legal bodies deliberately share information without any doubt being presented to people? Clearly, there is the same case here when simple people, I don't know, kindergartens and school directors, are not familiar with legality until they are subtle, and it really doesn't matter that their voting leads to some kind of suspicion or such a moment. In short, how do you judge, is it right that there is no doubt, but the media has already been charged?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U22	I would say that thanks to the media, which is a good output for what is happening, it has also succeeded in establishing the right. The media has managed to draw attention to problematic situations, whether it be child protection services or some bullying at work, whatever it takes, or some kind of crime. The media will help bring things to light that might otherwise be silenced. On the other hand, in terms of professionalism, yes, it is not right. If not all the facts have been identified and established, there is, in principle, no guarantee that the infringement has been committed because it has not been proved. But, unfortunately, because of the small size of our country and, as I said earlier, because of very high levels of corruption, there are very many situations where all kinds of violations are simply silenced. Then it is really very good that we have the media who, from time to time, dares to talk about what happened.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U23	Raivo Time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U24	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! I don't know how to judge what I heard here. But there was quite a peculiar reasoning about the nature of the internal control system, as if the internal control system was incapacitated, the heads of the agencies would not allow these staff to work, and when we talk about the internal control of the institution, they should not be subject at all to the head of the institution. But at the same time, I did not hear the solution and the proposal where this internal control should be. Are we going to create some national internal control unit that is going to internalise all things, or how are we going to solve this problem if the head of the institution is not allowed to take any decisions about the structural unit of his institution?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U25	I explained, first of all, that a situation in which only a letter or order from the head of the institution can open disciplinary proceedings or clarify the facts of the infringement is absurd, since, for example, if the head of a company or public authority commits an infringement, it is as if it is not possible to initiate proceedings against his actions, because he obviously does not agree with the initiation of disciplinary proceedings against him. He'll find out about the data he shouldn't know. Secondly, I am an individual; I cannot begin to reorganize this work in concrete terms. In this sense, I cannot give firm, waterproof answers here. This is an issue that needs to be addressed. It is clear that if we want transparent governance, those who are supposed to carry out internal control work should, according to their level of competence, work outside the public authority, for example, in a separate department of the ministry or in an outside unit. A few officials could be delivered inside the facility. They shall identify it when national officials have unlawfully used the databases for their own benefit, which is not justified. But there must also be supervision of the leaders who have the greatest opportunity to act corruptly. For them, there must be a completely separate person with whom they have no connection, not even a common coffee drink, because otherwise there is nothing objectively identifiable.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U26	Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U27	Thank you. I'm still coming back to the DA's office about no one checking the DA's office. In the course of your earlier investigations, have you perhaps also observed the links between the prosecutor's office and the media, that the media is also being used corruptly to create a biased and beneficial reflection of certain cases?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U28	With close observation, each of us sees it, it's just a question of wanting. In the sense that, in some cases, the prosecutor's office and, in particular, the State Attorney General, will immediately give interviews to news channels and newspapers, but if there is perhaps not such a primary violation for the prosecutor's office, and although it is a very serious violation, there is no comment, there is no talk about it, and it does not even exist. Of course, no one is saying directly that we are only talking about these violations, and we are simply not talking about them, we are pretending that they are not there. I must admit that, in my work, I have been in contact with materials to the effect that a very well-known construction company was able to generate a very large tax debt for the state. At the time of the crown, the debt was in tens of millions. Criminal proceedings on tax fraud were also opened. The saddest part was that the prosecutor's office closed the proceedings on the grounds that there was no public interest and that the damage was not significant. When we talked about tens of millions during the kroon, the damage was obviously great and there was also a public interest, because it was also actively reflected in the press. Here we can see that the prosecutor's office did not speak on this case, and according to the documents, the case was just quietly closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U29	Andres Metsoja.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U30	Thank you. Good waitress! I would not have believed that I would meet here in the most important hall of the Republic of Estonia, the owner of the truth monopoly. I will continue my first question. All state authorities have said that the violation has not been committed, but you come here to the chair and say that despite everything, the violation has been committed. You have also called yourself an expert on this matter. I'm still gonna ask. If it was a general act and all the council members decided on the council member's compensation, they were involved in the process, do you call them all corruptions? Is that how you understand that the people who, after the merger of the municipalities, had to decide on the councillor's compensation are corrupt? Please respond!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U31	I'm not a truth expert, I'm a practitioner. So much for clarification. Secondly, the general act as a general act, it's a theoretical approach. The act must be assessed, not the way in which it has been written, whether it has been referred to as a regulation or a decree. It's important. Things don't just have to look right, they have to be right. In other words, if a person participates in raising his or her salary as a member of the Riigikogu, it is not fair and fair, it is an activity of personal interest. You can't deny that. The fact that you want to twist the concept and terminology of corruption here does not change the fact that a corrupt act is based on a person's personal interest. This person is the beneficiary and benefits from the fact that his or her position allows him or her to do a profitable thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U32	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U33	Thank you. I will continue on the subject of a good colleague, Mart Helme. In connection with the elections, we have often seen that some processes are published by the prosecutor's office, whether they are running these things or slowing them down, such as the Autorollo story or the story of the investigation of corruption in the Port of Tallinn. I myself was a member of this Riigikogu Committee of Inquiry. Many of the people who were reporting to us in that committee made it quite clear that money was moving towards political parties in power on Toompea. However, there is a total silence today, and I cannot say whether or not it can be linked to the forthcoming elections. Perhaps only after the election will more talk about these things. Do you think there's some sort of randomity here or maybe there's some kind of systemic activity here?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U34	My opinion is that this is definitely not random, it is completely systemic, precisely what you referred to, the Autorollo case and the Tallink case. After all, these are companies linked to members of a political party and the way in which things are very beautiful and well in their case shows that there is a lack of will and desire to identify the truth. Yes, my opinion is that it is very much about which things are being dealt with, how much materials are being published and how much sound they are being given. It is precisely these examples that show that these things are very quiet. Nor have I noticed that none of them would speak in the press as a representative of the prosecutor's office, for example, to give the public an overview, because the public really cares about these things.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U35	Thank you very much for the waitress. The 20 minutes for the round of questions will end immediately. I now invite the next waitress, the Tibar & Partners Attorney-at-Law, Urmas Simon. His report is 15 minutes long, and then there's 20 minutes for questions and answers again.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U36	Hello, Mr President, honourable Members of the Riigikogu, honourable listeners! My name is Urmas Simon, I work for Tibar & Partners law firm, and I have been a lawyer for nearly 15 years. I am pleased to take the floor from Kert Kingo. I am talking about the next stage of criminal proceedings, i.e. the role of the prosecutor's office in pre-trial proceedings, the powers of the prosecutor's office and one and the other. Of course, this topic could be discussed for a very long time, but because of limited time, I sum up as much as possible and talk about the main thing that has affected me over the years, the role of the prosecutor's office in pre-trial proceedings. The pre-trial procedure is managed by the prosecutor's office. This often means that an assistant prosecutor who has passed the prosecutor's exams from a fresh university position, graduate of a university, is immediately the head of the Police Investigation Department, without any experience in criminal investigations or human management. However, the management of the prosecutor's office means that the prosecutor in charge of the investigation often dictates to the prosecutors what evidence needs to be collected for a successful prosecution and which evidence is irrelevant according to the charge. Unfortunately, it is often among these uncollected evidence that there is evidence to justify a person that is not included in the file. The suspect or his lawyer will never know that such supporting evidence existed at all, of course, if the person or lawyer does not begin the so-called own investigation, which is forbidden by law. This means that it is often simply not known what evidence can be obtained in criminal proceedings, which have been collected, which have been included in the file and which have not been included. I would like to demonstrate here an example of'moveable evidence' or, if you like it so much, of the fabrication of evidence. I'm gonna try here... [[Project the slide to the screen.]] Okay. Got a picture, huh? It is a view of the rear door of the Renault Megane cabin of the vehicle damaged by an accident. Please, look and remember what's on the seat. Now I'm gonna show you another picture. Same car, same view on the rear seat of the damaged vehicle compartment from the rear right-hand door. I'll put the last picture back on. Picture from the left door, picture from the right door, did you notice the difference? I had a question, too, where the hell did that beer jar come from? After all, it is not a question of the importance of the evidence or of what the criminal case seeks to prove. It is about the integrity of the proceedings, the administration of the proceedings, the taking of evidence, the fixation of evidence, the need to obtain a conviction at all costs. There is no explanation in the site observation protocol for who put a beer can on the seat or who took it away from it, what happened after that jar, who fixed it. It says who took the photos, but where did something come from, where something moved to, there's no explanation for it. No explanation. Unfortunately, we often have to accept that this is the way things are done and that is the way they are. One more time, one more time. You can see there's only a taxi plaphone, there's no beer can on the other side, but there's another picture. The integrity of the procedure, the clarity of whether or not the presumption of innocence requires the prosecutor's office not to refer such a matter to the courts at all. It is the country itself that has established procedural rules and it is the country that should respect the procedural rules that it lays down as a matter of priority. The criminal case based on such evidence should have been terminated by the prosecutor's office, the perpetrators who recorded the scene should have been summoned and punished if necessary. What law allows a judge to move, add or remove evidence from one place to another at random? The prosecutor directs the proceedings and is aware of the material and items to be collected from the outset. Smaller things are dealt with month or two, larger things six months, one year and more. As the prosecutor runs pre-trial proceedings, the information and material continues to move back and forth between the investigator and the prosecutor's office. By way of comparison, I refer to § 225 (1) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, according to which the parties to proceedings may submit applications to the prosecutor's office within 10 days of the introduction of the criminal file. Perhaps the ten days are the time limit within which the lawyer and the suspect must be able to obtain access to all the evidence collected by the prosecutor's office, for example within six months, to find or recall the places of stay, dates and other circumstances justifying the person and to submit an application to the prosecutor's office within those ten days, for example, for the collection of additional evidence, if it is not so that the evidence has already been collected but has been excluded. Throughout the pre-trial procedure, the lawyer has the right to access only individual documents, such as the detention protocol, the protocol of the suspected interrogation and some other documents. There is no evidence to incriminate a person on the list. Question: to whom is the pre-trial procedure inclined? Let me give you another simple example. The car will be detained and the person will be removed from the driver's seat if suspected of driving intoxicated. You can't interrogate a person on the same day because he's heavy intoxicated. The next day of interrogation the person claims that he did not remember very well, but he thought he was not driving, he was sitting in the back at all. The judge says that there is also a video of the on-board camera of a police car, but it cannot be shown to a person because the law does not allow evidence to be disclosed in pre-trial proceedings, i.e. to remind a person. That's how a detective writes a fairy tale about this person sitting in the back of a car instead of driving a car. Question: why such secrecy with irrefutable evidence if you could simply show a person the video and remind a person before interrogation, how were the circumstances? Why should a person not be introduced to him or her with evidence of direct arson before he or she is questioned as a suspect? My view is that the prosecutor's office should be separated from pre-trial proceedings. Have the police do their job, or investigate the case, and the DA's office will do its job, or represent the state charge in court. The police are investigating the case, making a criminal record and passing it on to the DA's office for prosecution. I am absolutely certain that there is a qualified workforce in the police that can carry out the procedure and put together the file without the prosecution's intervention and administration. The situation now is that the police and the investigating authorities are under the authority of the Ministry of the Interior, and the prosecutor's office and the court are under the authority of the Ministry of Justice. In essence, the Ministry of Internal Affairs exercises control over the activities of the Ministry of Justice and also exercises control over the body that understands the sanctions. We're talking about separation of powers. Where's the separation of the authorities here when it's all controlled by one ministry? There should also be greater control over the activities of the prosecutor's office. One department isn't enough. I believe that the expanded right of scrutiny over the activities of the prosecutor's office should also belong to a committee of the Riigikogu, which could, if necessary, invite a representative of the prosecutor's office to be heard. There is often a replay of evidence at the prosecutor's office. For example, three persons are detained in a criminal case. Before questioning persons, all detainees are usually invited to become police informants. The reward is either a much lighter sentence, or even the termination of a criminal case according to the quality and importance of the information. In this way, you can often read from the file that three persons were detained, but one person's criminal proceedings are separated from the others. What happens next to this isolated thing will often remain a secret. Clearly, the person has provided information about the contacts of the accomplices, the names of the persons, telephone and car numbers, meeting points, etc., or the person has become a suspect witness. But is it fair and fair to buy one suspect's testimony against another's accomplices with promises to ease his sentence or even close the proceedings? This is not a market. An accomplice can give any kind of statement to save his or her skin, and often he or she gives them. Another alternative to a similar situation is when investigators make different promises, confirming to the suspect that these promises come directly from the prosecutor's office and everything is agreed with the prosecutor. In court, however, the prosecutor always claims that the accused is wrong and fictional because such promises cannot be made by the prosecutor. I would also like to talk about the powers of the prosecutor's office and the violation of the fundamental rights of individuals. A search is one of the favorite procedures of the prosecutor's office. In order to search a person's home, car, or workplace, the prosecutor or the assistant prosecutor in charge of the proceedings, often the same assistant prosecutor who came from the same school bench, gives his permission. The search hopes to find evidence of suspicion of a crime. The search often reveals things and objects which are not linked to a particular suspicion of crime, but which are also prohibited and give rise to a new suspicion. However, searching a person's home and personal items is such a violation of fundamental rights that, in my opinion, it is not enough to allow such a procedure to be authorised by the prosecutor in charge of the procedure. If a judge has to give permission to eavesdrop between persons and to eavesdrop on phone calls, is the person's home search less affected than the eavesdropping of calls? I don't think so. Even on the other hand, it is quite unpleasant to watch police officers go through the suspect's belongings, his wife's drawer, children's toy boxes, and the kitchen with food and clean dishes. I have repeatedly asked the prosecutor in my work that the suspicion is based on such or such a paragraph, but why did you do the search that you were hoping to find? The prosecution's answer has always been uniform: we did a search just in case we found something. Maybe they'll find something to give us a new suspicion in a situation where the primary suspicion doesn't hold water. Then there would also be a legitimate person's suspicions, a search to be carried out and a procedure to begin at all. Searching is one of the most important violations of a person's constitutional rights, the decision of which should not be in the hands of assistant prosecutors and prosecutors' offices. As with eavesdropping of telephone calls, the Court should also verify the necessity and justification of the search in a particular criminal case and the authorisation of the relevant procedural act should be decided by the court. I understand that time is running out.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U37	Unfortunately, the President of the sitting is confident that the finely drafted question will guide you to the presentation of the rest of the material.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U38	Two could be.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U39	Can I say two more sentences?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U40	Thank you! I'll skip a few things, then. I wanted to talk more about the prosecutors' performance salary and, finally, I will just blow up a question that has long been circulating among lawyers: does Estonia need, as a remnant of the Soviet system, this form, this size and this size of the prosecutor's office? The police will prepare a criminal file and the state could order or buy prosecution services from a law firm as a service job. This could be one of the topics of discussion. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U41	And now the question round. Please, Martin Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U42	Thank you. I'll take the word. There is a term like civil charges, which some countries use. We know that the DA's office often basically lets the lawyers of the affected party do half the work anyway and then puts it all between the files. Would it not be wise, then, to leave the connection out of it, to have less discretion? The victim himself will then turn to the court.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U43	Thank you! That's what I talked about when I got off the phone. Of course, we do not need to talk about the loss of the prosecutor's office and the prosecution of all cases or the defence of the charge to law firms, but I am absolutely convinced that the interests of the victim are much better protected by the lawyer, which concerns the civil action of the victim against the accused and the rights of the victim at all. There are also many cases of violence against children, of sexual crime, where in fact the court already appoints separate representatives of the victims in the form of lawyers who, as Mr Helme rightly said, do half the work of the prosecutor's office in helping the victim.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U44	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U45	Good manager! Good waitress, thank you for a very interesting presentation. You're referring to a search and maybe they'll find something. But there is also the concept of 'fishing' and subsequent use of information obtained in the form of information procurement, if necessary. Name three or four things you would do as a first step if you had the full power to change the justice system.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U46	Thank you! Like I said in the report, these three things would be like this. First of all, I would divorce the prosecutor's office and the police, and I would not allow the prosecutor's office to supervise the pre-trial procedure. The police are doing their job as best they can, and they're putting this file together the way they put it. It will be sent to court and to a lawyer for inspection. If the police can't do their job, they're gonna have to reorganize. If the DA's office is unable to defend the prosecution in court on the basis of a police file, it is a mistake for the prosecutor's office. That's the first thing. Secondly... I've lost track of the conversation and I've lost my mind a little bit. I also said here that... Divorce the DA's office...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U47	Mr Helme has another question, so we can continue on this subject. Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U48	Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U49	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, what is your proposal? We have already gone through two reports that the prosecutor's office works as an independent state institution that no one controls and who basically does what he wants. What is your proposal, who should be placed under the authority of the prosecutor's office in order to have real civil control over the prosecutor's office?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U50	Thank you! I would not like to reply very specifically, because I have not thought this through so thoroughly, and I do not want to say that what I say is the only right solution. This could be the subject of a wider general debate on how to gain greater control over the activities of the prosecutor's office. As the previous speaker said, the prosecutor's office often decides which matters to deal with, whose matters to deal with, what things to do, what things to leave unheard of, and which things he later says, yes, we received a statement, but we did not consider it necessary to deal with at that time. There may often be political backgrounds, unwillingness to quarrel with the authorities or to stand on someone's heels. I would certainly see first and foremost the control of the respective parliamentary committee and perhaps here in the Riigikogu this could be the subject of a greater debate on how to gain greater control over the activities of the prosecutor's office.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U51	March Sults.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U52	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! I would like to ask you to continue with your own speech. There has been some kind of situation, an example taken from real life. Someone has written some kind of notification, a crime report, and has asked for the initiation of a criminal case or a criminal investigation, for example. The police have examined the matter, the lawyers have looked at it, the interrogations have been carried out. I mean, it's been found that there's no crime, and that's how it's sent to the DA's office. The D.A.'s office has sent you back. Find out more. Exactly the same operation, interrogations, nothing from the top to the top. They'll send you to the DA's office, and the DA's office will send you back for the third time. I'm asking you, is there some kind of regulation here? Is there any way to put these boys on the track or not, and they're literally doing what you said, what they want, and what someone's ordering?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U53	Thank you for your question. Yeah, there's a whole lot of regulation. The police authority itself cannot terminate criminal proceedings because of the lack of any form of legal basis. However, this requires authorisation from the prosecutor's office, even with the same coordination of the assistant prosecutor. He's the one who has to sign the termination order. Of course, the victim has the right to challenge the prosecutor's order in the superior prosecutor's office, the State Prosecutor's Office. If the Public Prosecutor's Office does not agree, the appeal will already be brought before the court. The court shall decide on the matter on the basis of the material, shall request the criminal record and the evidence collected and shall decide whether or not criminal proceedings are founded. If so, the court will refer the case back to the prosecutor's office to continue the proceedings, if it is not, then the end will be in the water.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U54	Please, Olga Ivanova!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U55	Thank you. Dear waitress, In your report, you spoke about the violation of fundamental rights. I have a situation to tell you. How do you assess whether this is a violation of fundamental rights, if the CPO employee offers cooperation, for example, to a bank employee who deals with non-residents, and after that person has given up his cooperation, he must leave this job of his own accord? Do you have any other cases like this to tell us?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U56	Thank you. A perfectly everyday and normal situation, nothing new in this world. As I said, police officers always propose to the suspect to become police informant before the interrogation. It is common when one thing is separated and another procedure is carried out. The D.A. says we're making a deal with this person. A certain agreement on a lighter sentence may also be signed, but it shall not be sent to court, for example, until the person has given statements in court against his accomplices or other persons which are acceptable to the police at the hearing. The prosecutor has received these statements from a person and is intended not to change his or her statement at the hearing. Once these statements have been given, the prosecutor will refer the case to the court for confirmation in this other case. When statements are changed, for example, the person says, he doesn't want to cooperate with the police, he doesn't want to give such statements, the police pressured him, the prosecutor rips the deal apart and says, "Well, now you're gonna get your ass kicked. ' It's normal.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U57	Raivo Põldaru.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U58	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Good waitress! You mentioned in your report that there could be even less prosecutors. But is it not a danger that even some years of lengthy investigations may begin to get stuck even more, because stretching is justified by the fact that economic crime, in particular, requires a long time and there are no very quick solutions? Can't these investigations be a punishment for the subjects themselves? I would like to have some thoughts on what would be a normal situation, how long these deadlines could be in the case of an investigation.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U59	Thank you. In fact, there is no law on how quickly a police authority has to investigate a matter. Procedural time limits are for keeping persons in custody, and there is no final time limit here either. Secondly, I did not say that the number of prosecutors could be reduced. The number of prosecutors could be reduced by the fact that the prosecution is defended by a lawyer against a lawyer. The state orders service work, the lawyer is responsible for the quality of service work. Then it's just one role over the other. Thirdly, in fact, it is not the prosecutor who conducts the proceedings and the investigations; he is only in charge. Sometimes the prosecutor gets a file, checks what evidence has been collected, who has said what, where it comes from, and then the prosecutor tells you if there's anyone else to ask out, if there's anyone else to question, if there's any other evidence to be collected. However, it is in fact the responsibility of the head of the authority who controls the quality of the work of its subordinates, researchers and the time limits for proceedings to be achieved by reducing the time limits for proceedings. After all, they have a computer record that the criminal case has started on that date this year, and if it's been a year, then the driver may be able to investigate that the hello that this thing has become, whether it has been filed with the prosecutor's office, etc. This is an internal control of its staff.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U60	Martin Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U61	Thank you. I come back to the subject that was once mentioned, that one side collects evidence and uses it as it pleases, and the other side never sees it. He doesn't even see them in court sometimes. In theory, the Estonian court is a competing court. This is something that the ancient Romans have already come up with: there is a debate in the courtroom about the evidence they mean and whether or not they are arsonating someone. How is a competing trial possible, when the guard is so-called blindfolded, sewn to the ear and sewn to the pocket, but on the other side there are knuckles and knives? Is this actually a competing trial?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U62	Thank you. I can say with absolute conviction that the phrase 'competitive trial' is purely theoretical, it is enshrined in the law. There is absolutely no practical competition, nothing at all. It's like there's trumps on one side, there's puddles on the other side.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U63	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Would your proposal to divorce a police investigation and a prosecutor's office also reduce the prosecution's discretion when initiating, delaying and abandoning proceedings?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U64	Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U65	Thank you. Yeah, I'm absolutely convinced of that. I don't want to say a year, but maybe less than ten years ago, there was a situation where the prosecutor's office and the police were separate: the police did their job, the prosecutor did his job. At present, police units, departmental leaders do not actually control the work or deadlines of investigators, and so does the prosecutor. A subordinate of one ministry controls a subordinate of another ministry. As I answered the previous question, one authority should only check its own work: the police unit, the head of the department, checks the work of the investigators and the time limits for the proceedings, and the prosecutor or the prosecutor's office checks their affairs, they get the file, they have to prepare an indictment report, they have to bring it to court on time. If the prosecutor does not do so, then it is up to the Chief Prosecutor, the Attorney General, the Chief Prosecutor to check his subordinates why a certain thing that has come in a year ago, for example, is still in the prosecutor's closet, why it is not already in court, why there is no settlement.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U66	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U67	Thank you. The situation is that many citizens, including members of the Riigikogu, cannot bring an action against the prosecutor's office at all on a number of issues, because it is not accepted. For example, a few years ago, we brought an action by a good colleague, Jaanus Karilaide, against the prosecutor's office concerning the procurement of ferry ships, where the law on public procurement was quite clearly violated. The taste of corruption was the way in which the first tender was cancelled, which the Ministry of Finance also considered to be completely illegal. All procurement materials and other items were played in the hands of another company, the Port of Tallinn, who was formed as a winner. It was all clearly criminal, but our action was rejected on the grounds that it was presented in the public interest and that, since it does not offend us personally, there is nothing to be done. Do you consider such practice and the law that it is not possible to bring an action in the public interest?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U68	I'm going to be a little more specific. An action can be brought in criminal proceedings against the victim, either in the form of a claim for "moral damage" or in the form of a claim for property damage. I assume you mean the complaint after all. [[H. Fieldase comments from the hall.]] Yeah. In fact, according to law, the procedural authorities, the prosecutor's office, have a duty to start criminal proceedings not only on the basis of a specific complaint, but also when the facts of the crime appear from public sources, whether from the press or from television. If the police see that this is a crime, they can start proceedings on this basis. Why your complaint didn't start proceedings, here I owe you an answer because I'm not very familiar with the content of this complaint and I'm not very familiar with this case. Secondly, I should not professionally comment on pending active criminal cases in which I myself am not a party. I can be very wrong about this, so I wouldn't be happy to answer it more precisely.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U69	Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U70	Thank you very much. A very honored waitress! Please tell me what you think, whose interests it is now that Edgar Savisaare's case is so long stretching and investigating, which puts human health at risk. Is that some kind of political interest or someone's personal interest? What is your concept of this?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U71	Thank you. The same answer again: this is an active, pending criminal case, the subject of which I have not been familiar with. I don't know any evidence or testimony in criminal records, I haven't been to any trial. I can't comment on something I don't know anything about. I owe you an answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U72	March Sults will be able to ask a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U73	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! The question is specific. University of Tartu Hospital, closing birth departments in Põlva and Valga or not closing them. I mean, it's obvious when you close, if you look at it in protocol, the shifts. It's signed with itself and certain names and all the other things. The crime scene is like there is. Crime notice was given to the prosecutor's office, the prosecutor's office doesn't start any kind of operation. I mean, what is it?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U74	I should be leaning towards the previous speaker's view that this could be a corrupt behaviour. I would, of course, ask once more whether the prosecutor's office has completed the investigation by order or whether they have simply not responded at all. [[M. Sults comments on the floor.]] Yeah, here's the moment again that we should ask the DA's office why their answer is this and why the procedure is not started. Here I see a completely unjustified refusal.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U75	Thank you very much, Mr. Attorney-at-Law. The time for questions and answers has ended. I call Leo Kunman, the long-standing judge of Harju County Court, as a waitress. His presentation is also 15 minutes long, and the time allowed for questions and answers is 20 minutes. I would remind you that every member of the Riigikogu is able to ask up to two oral questions to each of the rapporteurs. It refers to the celebration of democracy.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U76	Mr President, honourable Members of the Riigikogu thank you for inviting us here to Toompea. A little bit of yourself. I have served as a judge for almost 25 years, before that I was a detective and assistant prosecutor at the prosecutor's office for seven years, and before that, I was a laborer, an electric locksmith for 20 years. I graduated from school alongside work because the financial situation didn't allow me to go to day school, and when I was 16, I went to work. I agree in many respects with what the two previous speakers have said. In particular, as regards the lack of supervision of the prosecutor's office and not just of the prosecutor's office, I regret to see that Raivo Aegil is bored about the kapo too. I started as a judge in 1994. The beginning was pretty promising. But a few years later, my case concerning former Prime Minister Indrek Toome came to my attention. And before I could do anything, a guest arrived in my office, who I knew a little earlier, he used to work at SORVVO, and by that time he had started working at the office. I listened to her sweet talk, and I thought, " What purpose is she visiting me for? ' After a while, it became clear: he asked me if I would be willing to become their coworker. Some of the benefits were offered and they were interested that this Toome case would be resolved in an interesting direction. The first and the main thing was to leave a person in custody and then see what happens afterwards. Luckily, the judge didn't go through things alone at the time, so were the judges of the people. With the people's judge, we didn't agree to continue holding Toome in custody, we released him from custody. That, of course, upset that four-letter job pretty much. This was followed over time by a number of sanctions against me, several unfounded complaints and then a criminal case, as many people know. A civil case was made a criminal case that demonstrated its strength. During this procedure, the law was brutally violated. My home was searched without the president's permission. I was taken away from a car that was kept in the kapo shed for two years, even though the expert said that he didn't need the car to do any more expert work, he had all the photos taken, and if there were any further questions, he could always answer them. The accusation itself was, of course, completely absurd, understood by the members of the Supreme Court who had to consent to the prosecution, but since the procedural laws are such that they did not have the right to say anything, they could only agree or not, but they had to agree if they believed that the procedural rules had not been violated, the case went into effect. What does it mean to be a suspect? It means walk between the kapo and the court, hear from the TV every week about yourself that you're an insurance guy, you're a criminal. You have to feel it on your skin. Here I bring out the book Good Cops, recently written on the recent issues of real-life material, for advertising. Those who want to learn more about the inside life of our police and prosecutor's office will get the answer from this book. They also receive an answer to what it means to be in custody. They're gonna find out that the person in custody is willing to admit everything as long as he gets out. There's a lot of talk in general. I have some examples of my practice of working with law enforcement agencies and courts, maybe they're more interesting. For example, one case was based on the testimony of two witnesses, but it turned out that these statements were false. In one case, it was a drug addict who was forced to give false statements, or he was allowed to do something about himself. In the second case, the operative took advantage of the witness in the holding cell. He took statements from the Witness there and said that he couldn't print the text there, left the impound, went away, came back, handed over the hatch to the interrogation protocol, and said that he should sign the witness quickly because he didn't have time. However, the court found that there were different statements from those given by the witness. Instead of dismissing the prosecution and bringing the detective and the operative to justice, the so-called "municipality" was protected. First, the President of the Court was approached and asked to take the case out of my proceedings. The judge asked me out and asked what was going on. I told him, and he didn't take that thing away from me, so I kept working on it. Next thing I know, I've been challenged for some reason I've been asked to withdraw. I didn't back down. Next, new Witnesses were brought. They said that they held a meeting with the prosecutor and the chief of police, and they found out that they still had witnesses to confirm the guilt of the drug dealer. The first witness who had to come didn't come, I postponed the trial. The next witness ran behind the door, didn't come. And then it came back to me that there was a meeting and we found another Witness, who is our coworker. This coworker, of course, gave statements such as the prosecutor wanted, but the prosecutor, who filed a new charge, has the right to file it, had written some other data, so it didn't add up again. Well, I acquitted the man, filed a big appeal in the circuit court, and put a lot of delusion in there again. The famous sentence came from the district court that the trial must not only be honest and independent, but must also look honest and independent. My decision was revoked. Finally, disciplinary proceedings were initiated, I lost my monthly salary, and the matter went to another judge. Colleagues were terrified of all this. This judge found the person guilty, of course, on the basis of this last witness's testimony, but the lawyer took the case to the European Court of Human Rights, and there it is so far, no answer has come. When my judge time was up, the Postman journalist asked me if I'd be willing to do an interview. As a result of this interview, the current Minister of Justice announced that he is pleased that Judge Kunman is no longer a judge. I would say that I am also pleased that I am no longer a judge because of the situation that has arisen in the judicial system and in the legal system at all, I no longer want to be a judge. I remember that it has been said since the first Supreme Court presidents that Uno Lõhmus, his story and will it was that the county court and the district court should be removed from the Ministry of Justice. He kept saying that, and he fought for it all the time, but there were no results. Rask was also in favour of taking the County Court and the District Court away from the Ministry of Justice. But at the same time Rask, who was a member of the Reform Party just before he became the head of the Supreme Court, and also Lang, who was the Minister of Justice, did nothing to do to get the County Court and the District Court really out of the Ministry of Justice. On the contrary, the reliance of the courts on the Ministry of Justice has been increasing, I am referring to the county court and the district court. While the whole court, including the secretaries and consultants, initially came under the authority of the President of the Court, by this time we have reached the point where all the technical staff are subordinate to the administrative director appointed by the Ministry of Justice, and the judges have almost no say in the choice of their secretary or Advocate General. So what kind of person is there to help a judge, whether he can be trusted or not, doesn't know. Let me give you an example. It happened before I retired, about six months or a year before that. The public prosecutor, Inna Poller, called the head of the court's office and said that one criminal case was coming and that it could not be handed over to this or another judge. The Head of the Registry refused to comply with his request, and for some reason later the Head of the Registry was fired because of a loss of trust. In fact, before he became Head of the Registry, he had worked in the same court for 20 years as secretary of the hearing. I understand my time is up.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U77	Time's up. I do not want to repeat myself, but it is certainly possible to develop the subject for up to 20 minutes through questions. Please, Peter Ernits!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U78	Good manager! Dear waitress, this is an amazing speech! A prestigious judge says that he no longer wants to be a judge in Estonia, and he talks about how the kapo tried to make him his informant. My question to you: how many of the current Estonian judges have agreed to become a mole? Come on, come on, come on, come on, come Or do you think you're the only one who's been proposed that way?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U79	No, I'm not that naive to think I was the only one. During the 24 years I was a judge, I used to go with my eyes open. I can tell you that there are certainly those who cooperate. How many are there, of course, I don't know, but it's on their own conscience. Unfortunately, at first, Kapol had the right to control the people who wanted to be judges and to decide whether or not they were qualified to be judges. If anyone had a sin on their mind, it was certainly possible to use it: if you want to be a judge, you work with us if you don't, you don't become a judge.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U80	Martin Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U81	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Honourable judge! Last week we had a candidate for a member of the Supreme Court who will be in the hall soon. I asked him the same question as to whether he had such conversations with the security authorities, whether they had gone to turn his button. The answer I received was very cryptic: 'I have not felt a legitimate influence. ' Unlawful influence! But that's the kind of thing I'm asking. In the light of all the talk we've had here today, how do you assess whether we have the power of justice at the moment or not? So general, abstractly independent. Is this independence realistic and real, or is it just a slogan on paper?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U82	I would say that this influence on the judges has not taken place in one day. This is a continuous long process by the prosecutor's office and perhaps by other authorities, perhaps by the court itself. This influence has been a long process. Perhaps you don't even know that it's an influence, yet the result is that the judge is starting to think about what he's gonna make, what he's gonna do, what he's gonna do. I'd like to talk about disciplinary sanctions in the judicial system. Primarily, judges of first instance are punished. There was a rare case of the punishment of a judge of state who must have been caught driving drunk. But all other disciplinary sanctions concern only first instance judges. There are different reasons. I lost my monthly salary on the grounds that I dared to distrust Lavly Perling, who was at that time the prosecutor's office in the North District, what they were called, the Chief Prosecutor. Some were punished for objection, disciplinary proceedings were initiated for various reasons. It all makes the judge think about how to act so that there is no consequence, that it is not that you come to work in fear in the morning, look at the computer, and there is no note that disciplinary proceedings have been initiated and present, right, your explanation. That's what I can answer here. This independence is still extremely thin.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U83	Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U84	Thank you very much. Mr. Leo Kunman, I am actually asking you about Edgar Savisaar, about this process. I have been present at very many meetings as a member of the Executive Board of the Centre Party and have noted that the Witnesses who have been there have not received any details that the prosecutor would have been able to seize. As we know, this lawsuit was closed, then it was reopened, brought to light, let's say so. I'm asking who you think it's in who's best to stretch it and the sick person, I'll say straight out, insulting. Is it possible that the political interests behind this are also directed? Is that possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U85	This delay is not special now, as far as I have seen from the side, because there have been any other factors that prevent judicial proceedings from being carried out. There are, first, a number of lawyers who are not fit for one time or another, the time does not suit the prosecutor himself, the court, and the examination of applications has taken time. That's the reason for the stall. Whether it's for someone's own good or who or what's behind it, I don't know what to say. But as far as I've been speaking out of court with the lawyers, I've had the opportunity to get acquainted with this thing, and it's not a secret, it's leaked to the Postimees office, and I think it was possible to read this case to anyone who wanted it, then I can say that basically this whole charge is based on those eavesdroppings that can be interpreted completely differently. Let's just say what anyone wants, that's how he interprets these wiretaps. There's no direct evidence, there's no defense, there's no evidence. The latest information that has come to me, I think a lot of people have heard about it, journalists too, but it has not been told for some reason, is the same story as the previous speaker said here that some of the accused will be brought to an end either on the basis of § 202, i.e. because of a lack of public interest, or for some other reason, and then they want the accused to testify against others. At present, this activity was also to take place in the Savisaar case. Whether it's the right information, I don't know, but you'll hear about it someday if it's true. That's true or not, but that's the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U86	Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U87	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. What you're telling us here, dear waitress, is depressing. This once again convinces us of what we really know anyway: our whole legal system is a rotten swamp, and its author, to a large extent, is the institution that must stand up for the protection of constitutional order, that is, the defence police. My question is that we have judges for life and should therefore be independent, not afraid of any influence, and not recruitable. What you're saying, we're actually hearing the opposite. Lifetime judges who sit for 25 years in office are, on the contrary, a very good catch. After all, among them it is good to select those who are affected, who sit at the computer in the morning and watch and who have not started disciplinary proceedings, and who in this fear go to cooperation that is not quite legal.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U88	There is no other option if, at least, the recruitment of judges as co-workers should be prohibited. But whoever controls it, I don't know. Much remains on the judges' conscience. I replied to the CPO's staff, what's the point of this court if I start making decisions your way. That's all we talked about.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U89	Martin Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U90	Thank you. In theory, the prosecution should be supervised by the court itself. If the prosecutor's office violates procedural rules or fundamental rights of people, this infringement should be brought to the attention and should be punished by the court in some way. But that's not gonna happen in practice. Even if the court points out that as if people were overshot, there will be no real punishment. We also see this in statistics. If they come before a judge with an arrest warrant or eavesdropping requests, more than 90% of them will be approved. How does this supervision of the prosecutor's office work in practice when the judges so-called "wipe through"?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U91	They used to say God was high and the Tsar was far away. I'd say God's high and far away. It still takes so much time for a complaint to reach the prosecutor's office or the prosecutor's office that he doesn't really do much good anymore. I myself repeatedly addressed my complaints to the Prosecutor General, Norman Aas, who was involved in criminal proceedings against me. They answered in exactly 30 days, which is the deadline. I had the right to apply to the district court, and I just turned there with the complaint that my home was illegally searched. After all, the law clearly states that the President's consent must be there. There they were able to interpret the matter again in such a way that, in the end, it was found that everything was right, the prosecutor's office and the kapo could search the judge's home without the President's consent being needed. I also approached colleagues about the car, but the exact same thing they said was that everything was right, you couldn't get the car. Well, what do we do?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U92	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U93	Thank you. How do you see what should be the supervision of the prosecutor's office itself, who should exercise that control? After all, today we have virtually no supervision whatsoever. It's like they control themselves. We know it might be beautiful in the principle, but in practice, it's a complete nonsense. The Ministry of Justice also does not, in fact, have any real possibility of supervision. How could this situation be resolved in the first place?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U94	The best and fastest solution would be for an honest person to take the lead in a public competition. This would be the best solution for the time being, and later it would be possible to think about who is supervising the prosecutor's office. The current Attorney General may have been in office for over a decade, given that he took up power already in Pihl's time when he became Pihl's wife. It's a public secret in the legal community that since then Lavly Perling has been running the DA's office. If one person stays at the head of the profession for a long time, power will strike so much in the head that the means to gain power or to remain in power will no longer be chosen. That's what life has shown.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U95	Arno Bridge.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U96	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Dear waitress, I'd like to ask you one more time about the possibilities under our laws that are currently within these deadlines. How long can this thing at the Port of Tallinn last? Or here repeatedly mentioned Edgar Savisaar's problem. Could it last forever, as long as six tables are placed around a man's table, or what are our laws? Are there any endings on these things?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U97	I am just as surprised that this thing has been dragging on for so long and that expert opinion is not being taken into account. Before I retired, I also had a case when an expert opinion had to be used. The expert gave an opinion, and the district court found that this expert opinion did not pay anything. The Supreme Court did not accept the case. You know that the Supreme Court doesn't have to state the reasons if it doesn't intervene. It still doesn't make any sense to me. After all, they choose those criminal cases that are to be dealt with and not to take, and if they don't, there is a reason why they don't. But why they don't tell people, I don't understand. This has led to many not having received a satisfactory reply after their case had not been taken into consideration. The first degree makes one decision, the district court makes another decision, then they turn to the human rights court, hoping to get help from it. But in my opinion, it damages the reputation of our court, the more people turn to the human rights court. It is also almost pointless to turn to it, because if I understood or heard correctly, I think 5 000 applications will be received from Europe a day. So the hope that this thing will be processed and reviewed there is very little. I was talking about one of my cases. In 2006, the case went to the Human Rights Court, it was accepted into the proceedings, but there is still no answer. So I'd like to see the Supreme Court still tell people why it doesn't take the case into consideration, I'd like it to be justified. This would prevent unnecessary expenses for lawyers and the time taken by recourse to human rights courts. I believe that many people, if they get a reply from their national courts, will not go to the human rights court.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U98	Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U99	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Specific question: but where is the root of evil when the whole system, as we have heard from previous reports, is completely rotten? Is the problem that our corrupt deep state has taken control of the entire system?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U100	I don't know who you mean by this corrupt system, the part of our politicians in power or someone else. After all, these laws have all come from this very Riigikogu; they have been adopted in this form and in the work. So who's finally responsible for this?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U101	Mr Kunman, thank you very much for your unusual presentation and performance in this Chamber. We look forward to the negotiations, the TV news tonight and the newspapers tomorrow.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U102	I hope something was helpful in telling me, even though I don't really believe that anything's gonna change.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U103	The next rapporteur is Martin Helme, Chairman of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. The duration of the report shall be 15 minutes. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U104	Okay. Ladies and gentlemen, Good President! Guests! The title of today's debate reads: 'A country founded on freedom, justice and justice'. These words come from the Preamble of our constitution and lie ahead of everything else. It is noteworthy that even above the sentences that determine what our country has been created for at all: to protect inner and external peace and to place on present and future generations their social success and overall benefit, which must ensure the preservation of Estonian nation and culture through the ages. There is a very important reason why freedom, justice and justice are just ahead. Without justice there can be no justice, and without justice there can be no freedom. If we do not have these fundamental values, there cannot be internal or external peace, there cannot be social success and there cannot be general benefits; there can be no survival of our nation through the ages. Instead of peace, there will be tyranny; instead of common gain, the individual will be well off at the expense of the rest, and under such screaming injustices, maladministrations, and clicks, the people will simply strike their hands and run away. He will vote on the rule of law with his feet on the simulacrum and then we will have neither the Estonian people nor the Estonian state. It is therefore crucial that, if we want to build a prosperous nation state, and we certainly want to, and at least some parties in this Chamber are also pretending to want to, care must be taken to ensure that we actually have the rule of law, that we actually have a separation of powers, that our constitution is a truly superior piece of legislation, on which citizens can be sure that their freedom and wealth are not at the discretion of politicians or officials, prosecutors or security officers, judges or Euro-lords. By the way, even if you do not want to build a wealthy nation state, because you consider it a dangerous dystopian, but talk about protecting an incessantly small person from the rich and powerful, or about the need to ensure greater equality in society, you, too, should and should agree with us that fair laws and fair and fair trials must be started. Unfortunately, we know well what we are told about all of this: Estonia is an impeccable rule of law, Estonia has no problems with judicial activism, the separation of powers works well, the Estonian prosecutor's office does good work and never abuse its power, the kapo never interferes in the work of courts, politics or people's privacy, and never consumes its very, very great power. One of the objectives of today's debate is to refute these slogand false claims, to disprove the disgraceful and screamingly perverted false assertions, as if the separation of powers would be threatened if the parliamentary party required judges to comply with the law and did not allow them to take up the law, not if the courts hijacked Parliament's exclusive right to create laws. We want to disprove a myth as if our DA's office were effective, law-abiding and subject to some kind of control. We would like to disprove the taboo, which even prohibits asking whether civil control of security authorities is still working or whether in reality security authorities are exercising control over the political process. We would like to raise the question of whether we accept that Estonia is moving quickly and mercilessly towards the police state, and if we do nothing, we will lose our freedom. Those who are part of the existing system naturally draw into circular protection. They are not convinced by arguments or examples. But our goal is not to convince those involved in their own corruption. Our aim is to show the general public the seriousness of the problem and to say clearly that we are going to drain this rot. We have a clear vision and a clear plan of how things should be and what needs to be done to achieve results. I will sum up this problem with three questions. What to do with judges? What to do with the prosecutor's office? What to do with the deep state? I don't have much time, so I'm only talking about the more important, but the principles are the ones that matter. We consider it necessary to make the courts elected and to place a time limit on the judge's office. Not all judges at all stages need to be elected by the people, but the Supreme Court, which essentially supervises constitutionality and makes decisions on the most important matters of state, must be directly elected by the sovereign, or people. I recall how the Supreme Court failed to monitor the constitutionality of the issue of giving money to Greece, i.e. the ESM. I recall how the Supreme Court has repeatedly sought very ingenious reasons for not discussing the constitutionality of a creative border treaty. I recall how the Supreme Court twisted the law, logic and also our dear mother tongue in order to declare the Cohabitation Act valid. These are all very important choices where the court must obtain its legitimacy directly from the people and also report its decisions to the people. Currently, the Supreme Courts are approved by the Parliament on the proposal of the President of the Supreme Court. For 25 years, Parliament has rejected only one candidate for a judge put before it. It is a formal and superficial procedure, another simulacrum of democracy. Moreover, after the appointment of a judge, the legislator can no longer discipline him if the judge decides to start dismantle the constitutional order, as the Supreme Court did when the law on cohabitation was justified by the laws in force in other countries. The judicial office should be limited in time. In order for the people to participate in the elections, it should be possible for the people to elect judges in the same elections as the people to elect their president. Once every five years, the people would elect a president, and in addition, they would re-elect one third of the composition of the Supreme Court. In the case of lower-level judges, a limitation of the term of office should also be used. Some specific requirements should be included. A person under 40 years of age should not become a judge, as should the President. Circuit and state judges should have previously worked as county judges. Regular assessments should be introduced as both laws and standards change. In order to ensure the fairness and impartiality of the trial, two foreign elements must be established in our judicial system until now: the court of jurors who decide on guilt or non-criminality, and the civil charge which was held longer before Urmas Simon. In order to ensure separation of powers, a special committee must be set up in the Riigikogu, which has the right to send a proposal to the Grand Hall to dismiss a judge if he has broken the law in a court judgment, I would point out that it is in the judgment that he has broken the law or started dealing with judicial activism. Yes, even judges may break the law in their decisions, it is not the case that everything that is stated in the decision is legitimate, or even the law itself. Now to the DA's office. Today, the D.A.'s office is under no control. He does what he wants: if he wants to destroy people's lives with endless procedures, if he wants, chases, and eavesdrops without any meaningful reason or reporting, if he wants to, he will release the serious criminals on the basis of some kind of opaque agreement. But most often we see that the DA's office doesn't want to: it doesn't want to start things that the DA's office doesn't like for one reason or another, such as money laundering. The prosecutor's office must be placed under the authority of the Ministry of Justice, and the Minister of Justice must assume direct political responsibility for abuses of the power of the prosecutor's office, as well as for inadequacy and inaction. If the Commander of the Defence Forces may be appointed by the Government on a ministerial proposal, if the Head of Security may be appointed by the Government on a ministerial proposal, why should the same not apply to the Prosecutor General? In addition, a special prosecutor's office must be established. The Special Prosecutor may be appointed by both the Government and the Parliament. Parliament currently has the possibility to set up a committee of inquiry, but this committee is entirely dependent on the assistance of the prosecutor's office in its work. We're getting back to the problem that if the DA's office doesn't want to do anything, there's nothing we can do about it. This is why much did not come out of the special commission of the Port of Tallinn. The special prosecutor appointed by Parliament would receive his guidance from us, but he would receive his tools in the same way as all the other prosecutors. There is a need to deal decisively with the time limits for investigations. The situation in which the process is punishment must be brought to an end. In criminal proceedings, time limits, the extension of which would only be possible exceptionally, must be set with a higher level of authority authorisation. There is a need to separate procedures and supervision. The prosecution function and the procedural function must be in the hands of different institutions. The investigation must be handed back to the police and, on the basis of these materials, the prosecutor's office must act, which will also ensure that the investigation does not engage in abuse of police authority. The Code of Criminal Procedure must be amended so that the inquisitional trial becomes a really competitive trial. That would eliminate another simulacrum. Now, the deep state, something that, of course, doesn't exist. So let's talk about this in a way that everyone can understand. Not only in Estonia, but throughout Western society, inefficient civil control over security institutions is a serious problem. If anyone wants the best example of supervision, then we should look at the Special Committee on Supervision of Security Authorities, i.e. the Special Commission. It is headed by a former Director General of the Special Branch. Its members sign that they can't even tell their groupmates what they saw and heard in the committee. Although the Commission's idea is to make the authorities more transparent and accountable, it has fallen out on the contrary: the members of the Commission must also report to the Commission in order to obtain any authorisation to work in the Commission at all. They also give permission to monitor themselves so that the kapo can make sure that no one in the Commission is leaking anything. If leaked, people will be punished in criminal proceedings, which of course means losing the mandate of the Riigikogu. Does anyone believe that, in such a situation, the Members of the Commission will be too interested in matters or are they going to inform the public about irregularities? They can't do that, they can't. The result is unpunished action by security authorities. We must believe that all eavesdropping, surveillance and influence, which is the last resort, have been made in the interests of national security. We have to believe it, but we can't control it. This is what happens when security authorities take it for granted that they have their prosecutors who, if necessary, turn the lives of some people into kafka hell, they have their judges who make such decisions as they need, they also have their own politicians who give them political cover and, if possible, lead the committee that supervises them. This situation is not acceptable. Laws that allow people to be eavesdropped on a massive and arbitrary basis must be considerably tightened up, the head of the investigative bodies' unlimited ability to monitor people must be strictly restricted, and, more importantly, illegal spying must be severely punished. If we don't, we're gonna lose our freedom. In the Soviet Union, too, citizens had different theoretical freedoms. Freedom of speech was also written, but when you used that freedom of speech against the Soviet regime, it turned out that there was a section on anti-Soviet activity, or you were just put in a mental institution. I do not agree that we are living in a country where there is once again a climate of fear, fear of security. Our party disagrees with that. Civil control over security authorities must be strengthened decisively, and abuses of arbitraryness and power must be punished uncompromisingly, as there is no other way to realise freedom, justice and justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U105	Thank you, good waitress. No questions for you. Let's go to the negotiations. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U106	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, If the EKRE had a serious desire to reform the legal system, it would not have done as it is now. The previous speaker, though complaining about the many changes he felt necessary, hid them in a garnish that gave no hope that he would take it seriously. He created a background that simply made tracking impossible. In my setup, above all, the popular classic that we are you, we are not them, or, as Mr Reiljan, the honorary chairman of the party has said, that there is a tilted force in the systems and the system is unpunished. Then we will punish them and give us power! I am still reminded of Putin's attitude that if someone is working on justice, he will answer that Russia is a democratic state. He is not saying that the rule of law, he is not saying that the authorities are separated, he is saying that Russia is a democratic state. Give me the power and I will judge! Third, I've been set up here with this kind of platno culture that we're protecting your interests, who you've been beaten or convicted of somewhere. I don't know what it means to let it go, but I've heard something like that from the criminals, and I heard it from the previous speaker. It was very interesting to think about what will be said today under this cryptographic or very scattered title. But when we looked at who started the debate, there was something to be afraid of. When I came to the hall, I heard a performer I don't know anything about, but it was clear from his tone that there was some kind of conspiracy, some sort of bitterness, some kind of disappointment. That's all I could understand. What are these anonymous cases? What generalisation should the legislator make of this? Why are we here? I'm serious! I started to find out who he was. I didn't know the name. Former customs officer, former police officer, one of the fired? I couldn't figure out who he is now, what he represents, why he's talking about these incidents in such a conspiracy key. It is a Parliament, it is not a factory of conspiracy theory, all that has to be done here is to draw some kind of legislative or state-building conclusions, the accusations should not remain in the air. As was the case with Andres Metsoja, who complained that the same person had followed him with some maniacal accusations, even though he was acquitted everywhere. Then the lawyer spoke. It became a little clearer that the target was not, in fact, the general corruption of society, which was opposed by one party, but by the prosecutor's office. Okay. But is the lawyer the right person to come and settle some cases involving the prosecutor's office? He's probably up against the D.A. in court. Shouldn't there be a filter in between? So what did we have to conclude from these pictures, which were shown for several minutes in a row, what's on the seat somewhere? What legislative conclusion should be drawn? What does Parliament have to do with some kind of case where maybe they really cheated? We don't know that! How can we conclude from these individual cases that we cannot control? That's not the way to do it in this hall. And then here came the judge, who has left office with a scandal. By the way, I looked at what that lawyer said. He's been saying exactly in the EKRE's words that the justice system is rotten. Is this some kind of impartial analysis he's going to provide? No, he represents one interested party, without a filter, just settles the bill. The same thing happened to the judge who spoke... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U107	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U108	...only my own destiny. It may be very tragic, but we all know that this departure was scandalous. He answered the Attorney General. These quotations are there, ugly accusations and a very single answer to that, quite argumented answer. I really do not understand how a party can bring such a set here to settle its accounts with the system on the basis of individual cases. He'll be giving legal consultations here, too, to hear why this Edgar Savisaar thing is dragging on for so long. Damn it, it's none of our business! Keep this dialogue somewhere else! Everyone knows who's been dragging around, who's runnin' where. We have no desire to make any judgments or to correct the conduct of the court. We have some sympathy for an old colleague, but why do we have to deal with this here? What do we do with this thing? All in all, it was one of the most emphatically drawn up accounts with independent institutions, which should not be under attack by political parties: the press, the prosecutor's office, the court. Names and individual cases are no more generalisation. It is probably the most serious issue of these elections that independent institutions, some basic values, are being hit for the first time in such a way that there is a question of why we did this country, when nothing is sacred anymore. As far as the court is concerned, I also examined the international assessment of our courts. Surprise, surprise! As a result of the latest reforms, we have one of the fastest trials. You say trial is unfair, but we don't know if it is. It's not our place to say that. Really, this requires academic analysis, not party spanking. We are second in the European Commission's analysis of Denmark in terms of speed. I did not unravel all this methodology, but it is a very considerable achievement. There could have been some constructive discussion on whether there were any prior agreements with the D.A. Indeed, perhaps the agreements with the prosecutor constitute a disproportionately large part of the trial, but this trial is considered effective, effective and reasonable, and if unreasonable people attack it, I do not believe them. There's still a role for the defendant. Being in court is probably such a painful thing that we can't comfort anyone here, but we should still leave this country unraveled, we should not engage in a party attack. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U109	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U110	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! This subject, which has been brought before us, is, in itself, terribly important, but I am also of the opinion that this approach, which was here today, was sectarian, at times a little sleepy and did not go to outstanding generalisations, if not to consider the theory of conspiracy as a generalization, which was sometimes hatched from here. I think that the Riigikogu actually has a lot of other instruments and ways to deal with these things. One idea that, by the way, has emerged is that we can listen to all kinds of officials, we can make inquiries, but we do not listen to the public prosecutor in front of this House. Maybe it'll make sense. Such a hearing would certainly provide much better, much more important results on these issues than a debate in such a way, as an important national issue, where at times it is said that the one spoken of cannot make his arguments against it. I know that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will probably listen to the state prosecutor once a year, but it is possible that this could be the subject of a large hall and also of an inquiry. As far as civil control is concerned, this instrument is the supervision of security authorities in the form of a Commission. I have a proposal for representatives of the EKRE Group to really place your strongest forces there, either Mart Helme or Martin Helme. All these questions can be raised there. By the way, I do not think that this committee is the most efficient, most substantive, instrument that can be used significantly better. It is certainly the case that neither the prosecutor's office nor any other law enforcement body is infallible, but the question in itself is whether it gives rise to generalisations of the entire legal order and system in the conspiracy theory key. We heard here today such expressions as the ruling click and the deep state. We have heard that the media is biased and internal control is not independent. Specific examples can perhaps be given; they can certainly be given. The media is so general that such and different examples can be given. But if it is believed that there is some mysterious hand somewhere that decides which topics can be dealt with and which topics must not be addressed, then I think the answers are quite simple. There are very many subjective circumstances as to why one subject or another comes before us at some point. The world as a whole, you see, is generally very, very imperfect. Conspiracy theories are that they often provide perfect and complete but not necessarily correct explanations for what is happening. What's happening in the world is probably a lot more randomized. To generalize this randomity, yes, conspiracy theory sometimes gives some convincing explanation, but that explanation is not necessarily correct. I also call for reflection on the first word of this theme. It was 'freedom'. Western democracy and a European attitude are built on the freedom of the individual. The other half of this freedom is a conscious responsibility, as well as the building of institutions that must ensure justice, justice and balance in society as well as possible. This has been achieved by European culture in general. In each case, again, there may be elements of imperfection. But these deep-state things and theories of conspiracy remind me honestly of another society, another country, which unfortunately is also our neighboring country. In this society, they are well-known and things are not doing as well as in the European cultural space. I also doubt the proposals made by the representative of the EKRE finally to elect judges and subject the prosecutor's office to the Minister of Justice. This actually leads to a significant loss of independence and makes judges subject to the election campaign. That's not good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U111	Thank you. As the initiators of this item have asked the political groups to speak first, next, I would like to ask Raivo Aegis to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U112	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, I must agree with Mart Helme today, these reports were depressing. They were really depressing, and they were frustrating to listen. Indeed, as has been pointed out here before, it had actually been suggested that today we are discussing a matter of national importance, we are trying to find solutions, some answers to an important national question. Today we have heard that the heads of institutions are unreliable and they are potential corruptions, because no one can monitor them, neither internal control nor anyone else. Whoever understands how official supervision is structured in the public ministry, realizes that the talk was completely dilettante. The services are supervised by the Ministry, by the internal control bodies of the respective ministries, etc., and finally it reaches the law enforcement bodies, which do not already have that much supervision, but carry out proceedings in the framework of criminal proceedings. We heard several times that the police are unreliable because they have a rubber stamp in the prosecution's office, the prosecutor's office is unreliable because it is a rubber stamp in the hands of political parties and it is performing party orders. Finally, we even learned that the Riigikogu is a rubber stamp somewhere, the Riigikogu commission is unreliable because it is run by the former Director-General of the Defence Police and everyone who is members of this committee is supposed to have signed somewhere, they are said to have taken a vow of silence. Do you also understand that it is not nice to lie in this Chamber, to give the public misinformation, that it is as if the defence police have examined and checked them before they become a member of this committee? I don't know where the EKRE representative went to carry out his test. No other party has turned this way to be affected or repressed in any way, I do not know, by any signature requested or whatever, before they became a member of Parliament's monitoring committee. That's a lie you're talking about! There were a lot of former judges here: former judges, former police officers, also former officials of the Tax and Customs Board. I'm classing myself as my ex-girlfriend. I'm a former police officer, a former police chief, a former defense chief. At some point we were on one side of the front line, we stood by the law, we defended the law, today we have somehow come across different parties. But I still believe that the legal system in Estonia, the justice system, operates on a fair, democratic basis. There is no reason for this, and it must not be lightly changed on the basis of completely absurd emotional speeches, where someone dissects personal bitternesss, personal disappointments, his destiny from childhood to retirement age. It is not correct to identify it in this hall with the functioning of the Estonian state's justice system or legal system. Once again, I am really upset today. I believe that a lot of police, prosecutor's office and judicial staff feel equally disturbed today because of these totally unfounded, unobjective accusations that blamed them, as if the entire justice system of our country, the whole legal system were rotted and the only shining star above this rotten swamp would be one party, a four-letter party, the EKRE, both with the four letters of the Milky Way or the Big Rook with its four wheels, which must sustain this country. Don't be so arrogant and so arrogant about the whole system, which actually guarantees you a good, safe life and a good deal in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U113	Mr Helme, would you like to speak on behalf of the group? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U114	Wait, Jurgen, don't go away, I want to tell you something! Mr. President! Before Jürgen leaves the hall, I would like to say that it is still a nursery when performers are simply poured over with dirt. Well, there's nothing to be done. It's obviously like parenting. I am disturbed, too, and I am very deeply disturbed, but at the same time I am delighted, because I see that our cause today has upset those who imagine that the Republic of Estonia is the best, most perfect, of all possible universes. They understand that the stings and the proposals we made are very constructive. The Frogs smile at themselves, pretending that no changes are needed and that injustice, improbability and abuse of the legal system may continue, nothing happens, it is not, friends, like this. Raivo Time has also left as a sign of protest, or I don't know what the sign is. It's nothing. He can check the footage later. We are the Milky Way. We, the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, are the Milky Way pointing towards the North Star. This North Pole is a true rule of law, not a rule of law pretending to separate authorities, pretending that justice is not politicised, that security authorities do not interfere in politics, that security authorities have not manned politics, political parties, ministries or other bodies with their informants, their agents, their agents. Hey, knock it off, guys! We're not living the first day! And, Andres, thank you for at least sitting in the hall, I say you said it was all absurd, but it's not absurd, unfortunately. Things will take place in their right place in the long run, with many experiences and examples. We see and experience for years that this thing can't be right, and this thing can't be right, and the thing that's growing out of this thing is weird again, and this person always does weird things, and then he comes next time and he does these things weird again. Behind it, they say, is conspiracy theory. Well, there's no conspiracy theory, it's an experience. Experience assures us that in the Republic of Estonia there is an ideology that has been declared superior to everything else, including the Constitution of Estonia: it is this liberal democracy of so-called European values, which tramples underfoot all other rights, including personal rights and personal freedoms. He tramples under his feet an independent judiciary, tramples under his feet a parliamentary republic and makes Parliament a rubber stamp. This has happened in the Republic of Estonia. And if someone says it's conspiracy theory, it's not conspiracy theory because we're constantly experiencing it. Let us take the example on the agenda. Immigration issue, Marrakesh contract. After all, we see the cartel political forces anxious, they want to go to Marrakech and sign it. After all, we heard the President cheering in New York in September without anyone, without Parliament, without any authority from any other institution, that he would already expect to sign it, and then it must also be implemented: a mental check must be carried out, a hate speech law must be passed, an institution must be established which monitors that immigrants should be accepted so that our budget money is spent on them, so that they can be treated more equally than the citizens of the Republic of Estonia. And then they say it's conspiracy theory. Sorry, this isn't conspiracy theory! It's a reality, it's a day-to-day maladministration... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U115	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U116	... and crossing the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. It's not a conspiracy theory. Even so, the chairman or representative of another political group, such as Jürgen Ligi, has no right to point the finger at and teach other people's delegates what they can and how they can and what is right and wrong, pouring the performers over the mud, questioning their competence. What right does he have? He has no right to do so. I'm saying from this very speaker, he has no right or authority from the people to teach others, not to judge. Just as there is no right for those who experience the decline of the Estonian rule of law and seek solutions to blame conspiracy theories. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U117	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U118	Good manager! Colleagues! A lot of people know me as a nature friend, some kind of bird and butterfly person, but that's only one half of the truth. As a journalist and journalist, I have spent many hours in Estonian courthouses. I know most of the key players in the justice system personally. In preparing this speech today, I also spoke with a number of prominent lawyers, judges and high officials of the justice system. I have also sat in the process of Johannes Leas, the former parish elder of Kihnu. You may remember that in 2005, the elder was cuffed, but on 6 March 2012 the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg announced that the Estonian state had passed over the human rights of Johannes Leas with a tank and imposed a fine of EUR 8200 on the Estonian state. Unfortunately, John Leas left very soon. I bow my head to his memory, he's one of the victims of the justice system, one of the many victims. By the way, what do you think if I was the editor-in-chief of Earthpaper, who was our friend collective? State Prosecutor's Office. We discussed things together, we had parties, and on New Day, we rode down the hillside opposite the prosecutor's office. So I know things a little bit, and I'm really worried. When Jürgen Ligi labeled it here with no knowledge of the matter, it was embarrassing. But let's get to the point. Six years ago, on 25 September 2012, there was a similar event in this Chamber. At the time, it was organised by the Centre Party and then, on 25 September 2012, Leon Glikman, one of the most well-known lawyers in Estonia, stood on the floor. Six years ago! But let's get to the point. What did Leon Glikman say six years ago right here? He said that the biggest tragedy of the Estonian legal system was the inquisitional pre-trial investigation, and legal proceedings following a legally vile inquisitional pre-trial procedure would only create an illusion of competitive procedure. It is not possible to establish competing legal proceedings for such a vulgar system. So competing court proceedings based on inquisitional pre-trial investigations are automatically incorrect, because whatever to build on a rotten foundation, it does not work. I don't remember who said something about some kind of EKRE talking about a rotten foundation. It was Leon Glikman who wasn't just some kid. Another thing about Leon Glikman's speech. It is important to set time limits for pre-trial proceedings. Remember that we have come up with this draft, the Committee on Legal Affairs has dealt with it, I have even participated in it, I have signed it myself, but it is still standing somewhere to date. Glikman said that no matter how long a criminal case can be dealt with now, a person is severely crushed and his fate remains uncertain for a long time. Thirdly, I am not going to talk about the matter of Johannes Leas, in fact it was a violation of human rights. This is one of the examples. But fourthly, I quote the recommendations of a number of very well-known judges...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U119	Good speaker, would you like some extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U120	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U121	Yes, thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U122	...who, for various reasons, couldn't come to this hall today. First quote: 'Years ago, the judge received the full amount of the case from the prosecutor, and the new procedure only provides the necessary documents plus the indictment. But how can a judge understand the right when the prosecutor's office drips the substance of the case to him as necessary? How can a judge ask them questions if he doesn't know anything about the substance of the case? " It is the words of a very well - known judge. Proposal for national control of decisions of an out-of-court settlement. At present, these decisions are only subject to judicial review and only if a person convicted of an out-of-court settlement makes a written complaint. But how many illegal decisions will come into effect, no one knows that. The prosecutor's office should supervise the decisions of the non-judicial judge. Finally. Remember, we have a competitive process that Leon Glikman and many others have said is inquisitional. You know what the Inquisition is. It should be the case that the judge understands the law, there is a lawyer on one side and there is a prosecutor on the other side, and if there is a competing procedure, then there should be a ratio of 50: 50, in half cases one wins the other. Reality, and it's depressing, is that the game goes to one goal. 90% or more of cases are won by the prosecutor's office, and only 10% or less of cases are such that a lawyer wins. So, actually, if you get a suspicion, in criminal proceedings, you're gonna come out of the pipe as a criminal. It's disgusting, it shouldn't be, but it's real. I can clearly say that this issue, which we are discussing today and which was discussed here six years ago, remains the same. At that time, the Centre Party came out of power. Today, unfortunately, my former party is silent. I look forward to their position and speech as well. Today we're talking about it, but the problem doesn't go away. The problem is extremely serious. I thank Mr Kunman and the lawyers for their very impressive speeches. It's not natural for the secret police to turn judges into informants...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U123	Good colleague, your time is up.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U124	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U125	I will close the negotiations and that concludes the debate on the first item. Before we proceed with the next item on the agenda, I say that the Bureau has received the proposal from the Estonian Centre Party Group to extend the current session until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Let's start preparing the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the Estonian Centre Party proposes to extend today's sitting until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Please take a stand and vote. There were 27 members of the Riigikogu, no one opposed, with 2 abstentions. The decision has been taken. The sitting has been extended until 14 p.m. or the agenda has been exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U126	The second item on our agenda is the second reading of the draft law amending the Act on arms and state fees initiated by the National Defence Committee 654. Mr. Raivo Aegi, member of the Legal Affairs Committee, please waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U127	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was initiated by the National Defence Committee of the Riigikogu on 6 June. The first reading of the draft act took place on 20 September 2018. The deadline for submitting amendments was 4 October, and during the interim period, the Committee on National Defence tabled one amendment that was taken into account by the Committee on Legal Affairs. The Committee on Legal Affairs, in cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior, tabled 12 amendments. The representative of the National Defence Committee supported the proposals put forward by the Committee on Legal Affairs. The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the preparation of the second reading on three occasions: 9 October, 6 November and 12 November. I will briefly examine the amendments. Amendment 1 is to delete section 1 (1) of the draft, which lays down the definition of warning and signal weapons and acoustic weapons in subsections 3 and 4 of the Weapons Act, but instead includes these terms under section 11 of the Weapons Act. Amendment 2: Set a specific date by the date of entry into force, that is 1 January 2019. Amendment 3 goes back to Amendment 1. Amendment 1 introduced signal and warning weapons and the concept of acoustic weapons under § 11 of the Weapons Act, therefore the location of § 32 and 33 in the Weapons Act was illogical and Chapter 121 had to be supplemented. The title of the same chapter was also amended, and requirements for warning and signal weapons and for non-compliant rules on warning, signal and acoustic weapon handling were added. In addition, the regulation of the warning and signal weapons will be amended so that the reference to the implementing act of the European Commission is deleted from the draft. The European Commission has simply not yet adopted this implementing act, so the reference to it is also useless. Amendment 4 complements § 1 of the draft, which amends Articles 19 and 20 of the Arms Act. The amendment relates to amendments to the Arms Act, which entered into force on 1 July 2018, where the term "military weapon' was used. The above amendment is necessary in particular to allow the use of firearms originally designed or constructed as weapons of war, the military use of which has ceased and for which modifications have already been created, also in civil circulation, in particular in the field of shooting sports and hunting. Amendment 5 is necessary as of 1 July 2018 if the arms law allows a person to issue a permit of arms electronically and can in the future submit an application for a permit by electronic means. In order to ensure that the data of the person applying for the permit and of his application for authorisation contained in subsection 35 (2) of the Arms Act may also be kept and processed in the Register of Service and Civil Weapons, it is necessary to specify the purpose of and the purpose of the same Register of Service and Civil Weapons. § 24 concerning the latter. The sixth amendment amends § 1 (10) of the draft, which amends § 29 (1) (1) (1) of the Arms Act. The content of the amendment is that the concept of pneumatic weapons that exists in the current law was erroneously omitted in the draft, i.e. any Estonian citizen at least 18 years old may also have a pneumatic weapon. If the law had entered into force without this clause, the situation would have deteriorated and the pneumon weapons should have been banned, but now we promise them. The seventh amendment complements Paragraph 1 ( 171) by supplementing subsections 35 (10) and 35 (11) of the Arms Act. The amendment is that if a person has passed a weapons test to obtain the right to handle a firearm, he or she will not be required to take another test for the acquisition or possession of a limited-volume acoustic weapon, a gas weapon, a pneumatic weapon or a cold weapon. Perhaps if a higher-level or higher-risk weapon exam has been passed, then the lower-risk weapon exam will no longer have to be passed. Similarly, a person who holds a permit for a gas weapon and wishes to acquire an acoustic weapon does not need to retake a theoretical test as an analogous test has already been taken. The eighth amendment complements section 1 (181) of the draft, which complements subsection 46 (81) of the Arms Act. Acoustic weapons and their ammunition must be stored in a storage facility which is difficult to detect and reach to an outsider. More than one acoustic weapon must be held in accordance with the procedure laid down in subsection 46 (3) of the Weapons Act. The essence is that it was originally intended to apply an analogous requirement to acoustic weapons and the preservation of their ammunition, as is the case with firearms, that up to eight weapons can be stored in a weapons locker, but more than eight weapons need to be stored in a weapons storage facility. Then, however, this requirement was taken out, so that acoustic weapons, which are "just to make a signal bang," still do not have to build a weapons storage facility and can be stored in a weapons locker. The ninth proposal complements the new paragraph 251 of § 1. It simply excludes the word 'national' from the designation of the National Register of Service and Civil Weapons. The tenth amendment amends § 1 (27) of the draft. The substance is that the text of the draft first reading contains the same list of illegal handling of acoustic weapons with gas, pneumatic, discharge or cold weapons, classified as misdemeanours and punishable by up to 100 fine units or arrests. Now, with the same acoustic weapon, which has originally been a weapon of war, a firearm, it is possible to take a shot with a blank, and if it is now restored to its original function and it is possible to fire a projectile, or bullet, carrying kinetic energy, then this act is a major violation of handling. The fine was raised to 300 fine units instead of 100 fine units, or is punishable by detention. Amendment 11 complements the new clause 271 of § 1, which in itself only makes a technical amendment to § 91 (13) of the Weapons Act. The 12th and last amendments supplement the draft with the new § 2 and § 2 are moved to § 3. This is due to the clarification of § 264 (2) of the State Fees Act, which also introduces the state fee for passing the theoretical examination of these new weapons concepts. This has led to a brief discussion of the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U128	Are there any procedural decisions?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U129	Procedural decisions. Whoa, whoa, whoa. [[Browse papers.]] That's what we did here last time. When the second reading is completed, I will find where I left him to send the bill to the third reading on 20.11.2018. The decision was consensual.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U130	Thank you, good waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U131	And to make the final vote on the draft then, yes, at third reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U132	You have at least one question. Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U133	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I know it wasn't mentioned at the committee, but I'm asking you as a person who's been exposed to weapons in life. Could air weapons have, or should they have, special types? I mean, the initial velocity of the more powerful air guns is already the same as that of a firearm, or well over 300 meters per second.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U134	I think it's worth considering, because we here are used to dealing with an air weapon with a real calibre of up to 4.5 millimeters, but in fact there are already far greater calibre weapons, which also have significantly higher bullet energy than in the case of an air weapon of 4.5 millimeters. This could certainly be the subject of discussion in the future. Because an air weapon with a calibre of 4.5 millimeters can certainly cause a bodily injury, but an air weapon with a calibre of 6 millimeters can take a lethal shot, so its level of danger is significantly higher. Perhaps it would be worth considering this in order to make them a special status, and this permit procedure should also be different from what has been the case.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U135	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U136	Thank you. I have one very personal question. I didn't understand that when I read the bill. Sometime I bought myself a launch revolver. What's the result now? I got a gun license and everything. Do I have to check it in? There are probably thousands of such starter pistols or revolvers in Estonia. Do they have to go to the police now and check it in?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U137	So, how did we get on with the start-up stuff? If it has not been necessary to register this starter gun so far, there are no new objects to be registered, apart from new concepts, such as an acoustic weapon, intended primarily for historical societies and also for theatre performances. Those that have come in as new concepts go under registration, but they don't go, they don't have any additional requirements. So it essentially stays the same as it's been so far. I will make it clear that I am not misleading right now, and I will give a concrete answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U138	Thank you, good waitress. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. I'm closing the negotiations. There have also been 12 amendments to the draft, as we have heard. Let's start looking through them. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs, the position of the lead committee: take full account. The second amendment is from the Committee on Legal Affairs, the lead committee: take full account. The third amendment is also tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs, the lead committee: take full account. The fourth is presented by the Committee on Legal Affairs, the lead committee: take full account. The fifth is from the Committee on Legal Affairs, taking full account. The sixth is from the Committee on Legal Affairs, taking full account. The seventh is from the Committee on Legal Affairs, taking full account. The eighth is from the Committee on Legal Affairs, taking full account. The ninth is from the National Defence Commission, the lead committee: take full account. The tenth is from the Committee on Legal Affairs, to be fully counted. Eleventh is from the Committee on Legal Affairs, taking full account. And the twelfth is from the Committee on Legal Affairs, to count fully. We have examined the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 654. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U139	Let's go to the third item. Second reading of the Act amending the Income Tax Act initiated by the Rural Affairs Committee 648. The chair will be chaired by Mikhail Stalnukhin, Chairman of the Monetary Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U140	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was discussed by the Commission on three occasions between two readings: 22 October, 6 and 12 November. By 2 November, which was the time when the amendments were tabled, no amendments were tabled by members of the Riigikogu, no political groups or committees. At the same time, together with the Ministry of Finance, we made five amendments. Two of them are on the initiative of the Ministry of the Environment. In short, the first amendment amends the title because it is not only an amendment to the law, but also an amendment. The second is the improvement of the original text of § 48, paragraph 51. It is linguistic, not substantive. The third amendment was received on the basis of a letter from the Ministry of the Environment, together with the Ministry of Finance, which gave it support. It's a very important thing. According to this, the contribution paid to a natural person from the European Union's structural support is not taxed on the property for the construction of water and sewerage pipelines or for the installation of a collection tank. The fourth amendment adds to the third amendment, namely the retroactive entry into force of this amendment from 1 July 2018. The fifth amendment is that on 6 November we met to review the text at second reading. Colleagues from the Reform Party Group raised this question as to whether this change was insured in the state budget. We asked the representative of the Ministry of Finance and it became clear that the draft state budget does not provide for such funds. Then we had to take a break and discuss the matter again on 12 November. The result was that we put this section into effect by 1 January 2020, in which case it will be possible to provide the necessary resources in the RES and the state budget. The Ministry of Finance has called this amount up to 7 million, of course, to be taken into account. Meanwhile, at the meeting on 12 November, we decided to turn to the Riigikogu Board with a proposal to transfer this item to Tuesday, but in this Chamber, I remember the EKRE Group voted against and failed. So, the decisions you made. Five amendments were supported by the Commission, it was decided to bring the draft to the Chamber by today, 15 November (this was consensual) and we voted as follows on the end of the second reading: 7 supported, 3 opposed and 1 abstention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-15_U141	Thank you, Mr Stalnukhin, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. No questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. I'm closing the negotiations. Five amendments to the draft have also been tabled, as we have already heard, and we will then examine them. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The second amendment is from the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the lead committee: take full account. Third amendment from the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the lead committee: take full account. Fourth amendment from the Committee on Monetary Affairs, lead committee: take full account. And the fifth amendment, from the Committee on Monetary Affairs, to be fully taken into account. We have examined the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 648. The second reading has been completed and today's agenda has also been exhausted. Have a nice Thursday. Closure of the sitting at 1 p.m.
