ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U1	Good afternoon. Question Time. Checking for presence. There are 38 members of the Riigikogu in Question Time. Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Minister of Defence Jüri Luik and Minister of Health and Labour Riina Sikkut will be present. I will give the debate on each issue an opportunity to put forward a more specific question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U2	The first answer is Prime Minister Jüri Ratas and the first questioner is Andres Herkel. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister, it's a pleasure to see you here in the size of your life. When I came to Toompea today, I saw you several times on the posters, and those posters were so big, they scared me a little bit. But in addition to the members of the Riigikogu, the Chancellor of Justice has drawn attention to the subject that I want to raise, and also the Auditor General, via the press. The question is that we almost do not have the lines that are understandable in the main text of the state budget that we are working on. Perhaps the question is why the Government of the Republic is still unable to send the most important document of the year to the Riigikogu in such a way that it is also understandable to the public, understandable to politicians, and members of the Riigikogu can simply make clear amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U4	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Members of the Riigikogu! Good questioner! If someone in a just country is scared like that, then you still have to help to overcome that fear. Don't be afraid! I got various security reviews this morning. Estonia continues to be calm and does not have to worry about walking the streets. You asked about the state budget. I think that this debate, which always arises in the Riigikogu, whether the state budget is clear enough and whether it is easy enough to read, is welcome. I believe this debate will always be. If we can move towards the fact that the state budget is getting easier and easier to read, then this, I think, is the right direction. These are only the first years when the country has moved from a cash-based budget to an accrual-based budget, which in any case should provide clarity. The debate on the detailed nature of the draft state budget law submitted to the Riigikogu of the Government is, in my opinion, welcome. It's natural to do it from time to time. The Ministry of Finance has confirmed that it is constantly working to ensure that the budget and its explanatory statement are well grasped and understandable, not only for honourable members of the Riigikogu, but also for people who wish to read it outside the Riigikogu. So this direction to make it easier, clearer and more seductive is, I think, correct.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U5	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U6	Thank you. Prime Minister! It's not you on those posters that scares me, it's the way public money is used. Let that be made clear. As far as the state budget is concerned, I find it increasingly difficult to read. But I'm going to ask you a more specific question. I have it in front of the budget, you don't, maybe because of it we are in a bit of an unequal situation. But on page 29, there is such a thing as the cost of the state budget by function of government. There are 2.1 billion, separate national defence and all other functions. Is this the place, the operating costs of the central government, that if we had to think about cutting them by either 5% or 10% by means of amendments, is this the place in the explanatory memorandum, which in this case is the source of the cover? Well, then, we must specify where it is in the main table of the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U7	Thank you! As far as I know, the state budget, along with the explanatory memorandum, consists of hundreds of pages. Really, I have to say that all the pages and passages are not in my head. You've prepared very well. If I'd known you'd be asking for a state budget statement on page 29, I'd certainly have looked at it exactly. But I want to say, given your long-term experience as a member of the Riigikogu, that if you say that the state budget is still not clear enough, this input, I think, is, of course, a serious signal to the government and the Ministry of Finance. However, you mentioned the defence aspect. May I ask you? Thank you. You mentioned the defence aspect. You asked me if I understood correctly that if I cut it. I say frankly, that is my own position and the view of today's government that next year the largest national defence budget in Estonia's history, if I am not mistaken, will be 585 million euros, and I do not recommend that the Free Party cuts it. I do not recommend cutting national defence spending if that is what is on page 29. On the contrary, we have tried to reach a political agreement that we will not go against this 2%. I think it has been a value in itself to keep it at 2% or more, and that is something we will certainly support.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U8	Andres Herkel has a procedural question for me, I understand that.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U9	Yeah, I have a procedural question. What must a member of the Riigikogu do if the Prime Minister misunderstands the question as he did in this case? I specifically referred to this table and wanted to clarify whether these are the operational costs of the central government, which the Free Party would like to cut by means of amendments, and national defence and everything that follows are already on separate lines. Maybe I've distinguished them. The Prime Minister did not answer the question; he answered anything else and did not understand the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U10	Since the question was for me, I'll answer. If a member of the Riigikogu does not receive an answer from the Prime Minister, he is looking for someone who can help him. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U11	Thank you, Chairman. I do not know what the point of conducting an Question Time is when the Speaker says directly that ministers are not required to provide substantive answers to questions of substance. Good Prime Minister, I will then try to remark these two subjects. Is it known what the total costs of the central government sector are? We have realised that it has not been possible to agree on this issue in the course of the various debates. Secondly, it is still worrying that objects and general activities are marked by ministries, but for what purpose and how these activities are called into practice, they are not really readable. It is therefore very difficult for members of the Riigikogu to have a say in the substance of the matter, and it is wrong because the basic document of our country is the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U12	Thank you. Yes, I would add that the state budget is accepted by no other than the Riigikogu. So in this sense, the clarity that you are asking about is very important. Question 1: Is it possible to cut the total costs of the central government and tell you? Yes, it is. Question 2, you're saying you don't understand the various activities of the ministry. It's a very strong signal. This must be asked by the ministers. You can also ask the Prime Minister, but then you will have to say specifically which section you do not understand. You wrote "The Cryptic nature of the state budget" as Question Time, but you have come to ask 300 pages. As a skilled politician, Mr Herkel asked, what is the point of the second sentence of the third paragraph of page 29. I'm sorry, but then the question should be clarified that you want to ask about this section on page 29 of the state budget. But, of course, I am willing to respond in any case to all these paragraphs and principles. Give it, I don't know, a prayer, a letter or an oral question to me, and that's what I'm going to do.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U13	I will conclude on this issue. But I am forced to tell the Hatter that the President of the Riigikogu has no right to assess questions or answers.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U14	Next, the Minister of Health and Labour, Riina Sikkut, answers and asks Liina Kersna. Please, Liina Kersna!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U15	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, Last night's "Radar" show revealed that over the years, the School Management Information System has publicly published documents with sensitive personal data on hundreds of children, including children's health records. I believe that today many parents have a question as to whether the sensitive data of his or her child has become public without his or her consent. As Minister of Health, how do you feel that parents whose rights have been seriously violated should be aware of this? Perhaps how can we protect the rights of a child whose rights have been violated?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U16	Good Chairman! Thank you very much to the questioner. Indeed, on 28 September, the journalist also addressed the Ministry of Education and Research, referring to a data leak that has actually been going on for years. After that, the Ministry of Education and Research took action. They themselves can describe how they restricted the use of the data and stopped leaking. But it's not just one database or one ministry. We actually have the legal space for the use of personal data in place, it is clear what can and must not be done. And this type of data must not be disclosed. In order to limit access to them, hardware requirements concerning the location of servers, on the one hand, and software requirements such as security software, on the other, are human components. In fact, it is very important that everyone who enters and uses data knows what these limitations are and what these data can and cannot be done. Since many of us here have not received this kind of training, we are a security risk for this type of database. That's probably one of the reasons why this leak occurred. Now the question is how to protect the rights of the parents of these children. Given that this is the first leak of this type, we need to agree who needs to be informed. For example, do people whose data were public need to be informed? How can we determine who has access to these data? How have they been used? Those risks shall be mitigated so that the data collected or received on such a route is not used in a targeted manner, as should not be done.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U17	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U18	Thank you. The Ministry of Education and Research announced today to the public that it was not a technical error, but that it was the fault of dozens of specialists working in educational institutions who, according to the Ministry, knowingly made two clicks in order to make children's sensitive data public. From yesterday's story, it turned out that there must be a conscious desire to do so, which still needs to be confirmed separately. It does not seem logical to me that people working in educational institutions who, in dozens of ways, are not exceptional cases, but these people have dozens of ways of knowingly making such a decision. But since this also concerns the leak of health data, my question is whether your administration cooperates with the Ministry of Education and Research to find out exactly why such a widespread leak occurred.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U19	Thank you. Indeed, it is important to examine why this leak was made possible. The human component is that there are a large number of users, both the data input and the users of these data, and this makes the system risky. These people must all be aware of what are these birds that must be done and what are these birds that must not be done. They really have to understand that. In my opinion, too, it is very unlikely that someone has deliberately and systematically allowed these data to become public. I think that, when it comes to the human component, it has certainly been unintended, rather it has been a mistake. How can these mistakes be ruled out in the future? I agree that this is also a question for the health sector. The same is true of family practice. There are a large number of data entrants and data users and there are much more personal data for people than in the EKIS. In fact, given the ability of each individual family doctor to deal with cyber security, the TEHIC has trained them and evaluated the level of security of information systems for family doctors in the administration of the Ministry of Social Affairs. It is doing an action plan on how to improve it and what further steps could be taken and how to achieve that data is not scattered and we can understand who uses the data and who is allowed access to it. But specifically in this case: yes, the health data were related to it and the cause of this leak must be found in cooperation with the HTM.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U20	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U21	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. This is the subject that prompts me to ask such a question. The development of technology makes people understand, of course, that their private sphere, their health and other personal data, which need to be protected very seriously, are not as safe as people might expect. If you want to predict, do you think this could lead to damages in the future if, after all, very personal data has leaked? How do you see it? Can you make any comparison with the rest of the world?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U22	Thank you. Indeed, it is difficult to predict how a court in our legal system would decide now and how to prove damage or the extent of damage, how to prove whether it is emotional damage or really loss of earnings or some sort of narrowing of opportunities. I think it's lucky we don't have this type of practice right now. I cannot make an assessment of what it would be like to be able to obtain or understand such compensation. But I agree that we need to consider or resolve whether we need to compensate for this type of damage. This compensation must be done in the same way and on the basis of specific rules.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U23	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U24	Prime Minister Jüri Ratas will be asked by Arno Bridge. Please, Arno Bridge!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! It was not a long time ago when the Estonian people were surprised at the multiple and multiple increases in the cost of the check line compared to what was originally planned. We are now faced with the next surprise: the price of Rail Baltic construction is already being spoken of as a 19% increase, although even the bucket has not yet been laid down. How can the construction of Rail Baltic be started if its cost is not known? What will the financing of Estonia be like?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U26	Honourable member of the Riigikogu, Arno Sild, first of all, thank you for your important question. I am pleased that you have given an example of this eastern border, and on Monday the request of the Free Party was answered, that, if there are different assessments, the government must bring them to the meeting of its office and, of course, to the public. So disclosure and open communication are, in my opinion, more accurate than holding back information. As you said, indeed, the appreciation is. Speaking of which, what has caused this appreciation? We've finished the preliminary project. We used to have a sketch project. I'm sure the preliminary project will be more specific. The preliminary project takes this into account, in my opinion, is very important to say through four or five years of popular meetings, the wishes of the various, say, villages, municipalities and counties, how this Rail Baltic should be built. This, of course, means that the project has become more precise and that there has also been an appreciation of several objects. I'm sure I'll let you know if you keep asking. Speaking of the part of Estonia, it can be said that on the basis of the volume list of the preliminary project, the new budget for Rail Baltic has been drawn up, which is approximately 244 million more expensive, and if we are based on the fact that the financing scheme is the same as today, it can be said that the share of Estonia has become more expensive than 49.50 million. This is the part of the Estonian taxpayer. I would like to say so much that the final estimates will still be available once the construction procurement has been carried out.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U27	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U28	Thank you. I am now asking this question: is this relationship between financing of the European Union and Estonia going to be the same, or is it going to make our situation easier? What's your position?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U29	Thank you. This is also a very true and substantive issue. My view is that we must stand by the fact that this percentage ratio remains the same. The question is that we all understand that this is very strongly linked to the negotiations on the next budgetary framework for the European Union 2021+. How it finally works is a little difficult to say today, because it has not been agreed. Estonia certainly wants the co-financing ratio to remain the same. I have also said from this honourable Riigikogu speech chair that it must be the same or the same. If this is still going to change very much, I think we need to consult seriously and this place is, I think, the Riigikogu, whether or not we are going forward with this project. For example, if this ratio is like this, I'm just fantasizing now that Europe finances 50% and Estonia finances 50%, then a new decision must be made whether or not we go ahead with it. In any case, Estonia will certainly stand for this relationship to remain the same as it is during this financing period. If you will allow me, I will say a few words, for example, which have become more expensive. The construction of local access routes has been taken into account, which has become more expensive. It has increased from EUR 45 million to EUR 112 million, or +67 million. This is precisely because the wishes of the communities have been taken into account. Bridges, tunnels, eco-ducts, these objects have grown, and here the difference is that from 60 million this amount has risen to 112 million euros. For example, land improvements and crossings with communications: communication, gas, water, sewerage, electricity, high voltage. So there are examples where this appreciation has taken place everywhere. But once again, the final price is still set by construction procurement.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U30	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U31	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Prime Minister! Certainly, the Riigikogu and the people are primarily interested in how much it costs, how much it will cost the Estonian state, how much it will be appreciated for Estonia and where the sources of cover will come from. After all, we have been talking for years or decades about the need to build a four-line Tallinn highway, we have talked about the Tallinn and Tallinn highways. We've been talking about the need to develop train traffic, order new trains. For years, there has been a huge overcrowding in train traffic, and Elron needs three long-distance trains. There is always a lack of land resources, a lack of labour, and a lack of cover. In the government, as a foresighted Prime Minister, you have certainly predicted where the sources of cover should come from, resulting from this appreciation, which today stands at 19% of the project's original price. Where would the sources of cover come from for this 19% when the day is here and the money needs to be taken from somewhere? Where's the money coming from?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U32	Thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U33	Thank you. The money comes from the Estonian state budget and the Estonian state budget receives it from Estonian taxpayers. Speaking of appreciation, I replied to your good political partner, Mr Arno Silla, a member of the Riigikogu, that the increase is currently known to us to be EUR 49.50 million if the funding proposal remains the same. The cost increase over the whole period amounts to 49 to 50 million. We say today that the construction period is the circum of seven years. This means that the annual increase will amount to EUR 7 million. Once again, when I give you the answer, I would stress that the final prices and estimates will become clear once the construction procurement has been carried out. You rightly raised the issue of other infrastructures. I think what happened a few years ago when it was said that we were building a major highway or a connection and that we were taking the financial resources away from, for example, gravel roads or any small roads was not right. In that sense, it is a very correct debate. If we want to move forward with the Tallinn-Narva, Tallinn-Tartu and Tallinn-Pärnu highway and we want to do it faster than in 30 or 40 years, it is not conceivable with this financing scheme. If we want to move faster, we really need to think about what alternative options are. There is very likely only one credible alternative option: the Riigikogu and the government must decide whether or not we will build them with the help of the loan money. You brought out the building capability. It's really being taken into account. When making these large objects, it will certainly take into account what our private sector's building capacity is.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U34	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U35	Next, Secretary of Defense Jüri Luik will answer and ask Enn Meri. Please, Enn Meri!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Secretary of Defense! We discussed this issue in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, but I think it is so worthwhile and important that it can also be discussed in the big Chamber. In a war situation, as you know, the formation of the reserve army is vital. The usual order in our Defence Forces is that the reserve units are equipped and formed in regular units' barracks. After all, it is relatively easy for the enemy to interfere with this process. Therefore, our situation must be compared with that of Finland, Norway and even Sweden (while Sweden was still in military service). In these countries, mobilisation took place and takes place in the so-called forest, i.e. mobilisation takes place in a decentralised manner. Mobilised units are battalion size and in some cases even company size. This kind of decentralised system is much harder...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U37	Question please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U38	... to mix as a barracks for the formation of reserve units. We have discussed this issue before.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U39	Question please, Enn! Here you go!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U40	I'm sorry! My question to the Minister for Defence here is why our Defence Forces have not implemented this kind of mobilisation system for a long time. Have we taken the example of other NATO countries where mobilisation does not really work?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U41	Thank you for that question. Of course, in the case of the reserve army, mobilisation is one of the key issues, because if we do not get the reserve army together in time, we are facing major problems. In Estonia, the topic of mobilisation is given a great deal of attention. The best example of this is not only educational gatherings, but also additional educational gatherings, which we organise at very short notice and the results of which have been positive. As regards the dispersion of mobilisation stocks and the implementation of mobilisation in a distributed manner, this is a very correct observation. Indeed, especially in the event of a real military conflict, it is extremely important that stocks are dispersed and that mobilisation is carried out in this way. The method we use depends very much on the danger situation, the operational plan, the protection plans. Very many of these decisions are authorised to be made by the Commander of the Defence Forces. We have also planned, in the course of special exercises, the dispersion of mobilization stocks in the event of conflict and their release according to this scheme.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U42	Enn Meri, please! I'm asking you to make it in one minute!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U43	Yeah. In a war situation, certain units of the Defence League will be merged with the mobilized reserve army. But one of the most important tasks of the Defence League is to protect the mobilisation process. Wouldn't it make more sense for the Defence Forces to form missing reserve units from our trained units, but not from the units of the reserve forces, which we have quite a lot of, according to our colleague General Laaneots, and not to join the forces with the Defence League units, but to leave the Defence League to protect the mobilisation process and local objects?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U44	Thank you. One of the tasks of the Defence League, the Defence League, has many other tasks in the event of a conflict, is indeed to assist the defence forces in performing mobilization. Of course, the Defence League is a very important resource, because the Defence League itself can be mobilised relatively quickly, so they can also be used to ensure mobilisation. As far as this reserve, which is not concentrated in the units, is concerned, our position is that it is most important to ensure that the troops are truly capable of fighting. No unit will be able to fight unless it has the equipment, training and everything else necessary. We have come first and foremost from this point of view.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U45	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U46	Thank you, good Chairman. Good Secretary of Defense! As I understand from your answer, we are able to flexibly use both mobilisation versions, either centralised or decentralised. Can you tell me whether, to the detriment of the decentralised method, the difference in the cost of the centralised method can be said? How big can that be? Is that a big problem for our country?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U47	Thank you. This is not a very big problem, because all stocks have actually been scattered across Estonia, so perhaps so. But indeed, one of the possibilities of mobilization methods, especially in the case of a public military conflict, is still to disperse stocks, figuratively to put them into the forest, as the questioner referred to. In principle, certain resources are necessary for this, of course, but the support management within its own budget can carry out such a process. As I said, we are choosing a form of mobilisation largely based on the threat that is actually threatening us at a particular moment. It's the easiest thing to do, of course, a mobilization at the troops, but if the threat picture requires it, of course we won't.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U48	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U49	Answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, asks Keit Pentus-Rosimannus. Please, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U50	Thank you. I will ask the Prime Minister because the seriousness of the matter and the magnitude of the confusion also require an explanation from the Prime Minister. Health care is an area where the country's mistakes can affect thousands of very, very fragile people, who have generally been waiting for medical attention for a very long time and who need to be sure that they can get help. In recent times, during your government, Estonia's largest medical procurement, called total or total fiasco, was completed. Instead of the confidence patients need, there is a massive confusion. Some private doctors say that they are forced to lay off half the experienced workers. During your government, there has been a very strong rejection of private medicine. My question is why. And what are you going to do to end this massive mess?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U51	Thank you. First of all, I shall state my position in principle. This has been the case for today's government that more resources need to be provided for medicine, giving priority to the need for patients to receive medical care more quickly. It has not been some kind of slogan, but it has been a real action. This has been done through additional funding. In the spring of last year, when we discussed the country's budget strategy, about 300 million euros were added to the Health Insurance Fund to improve access to healthcare for five years, of which 34 million were added this year. Next year, when the honourable Riigikogu approves it, the Health Insurance Fund will have 40 extra million. All of this has been done primarily to reduce the order of treatment. You said we were rejecting private health care. As far as I know, before the call for tenders, this volume was about 7%, and after the call for tenders, it is 7%. We have prioritised the importance of ensuring that healthcare providers are reliable and that the service is of high quality and accessible. But you know very well that when the agreement is over, the state of Estonia will be tendered out and competition will be what is a driving force in a free market economy. But, of course, the patient's freedom of choice must be maintained. I think you referred to the next question, after all, to Medicum and Lasnamäe in particular. But I guess that can be discussed further. So, yes, this procurement concerned about 7% of the volume of health care services, and today we are moving on as a result of this procurement.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U52	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U53	Thank you. I'd be happy to continue. Good Prime Minister, when you speak to experienced representatives of private medicine, you will hear that the rejection of private medicine as a result of public procurement is a fact, as is the fact that, unfortunately, as a result, patients who are no longer able to receive assistance under the same conditions will suffer. They suffer in the long term because private medical centres with good technology and highly valued staff built over the years are unfortunately demolished as a result of this procurement. One way to put things in order in the current chaos would still be to give the patient the right to decide which quality and licensed medical service provider he is going to, which doctor he is going to. Why don't you put the money that's being taken out of private medicine as a result of a public procurement that's just gone wrong with the patient?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U54	Thank you. I don't agree with that at all. I don't understand where you take this claim or why you're causing this fear in society. Whether one private medical service provider has doctors, experience and equipment will be decided by the Health Board, which will issue the licence. You understand very clearly that when the contract between the Health Insurance Fund and private medical service providers ended, a new call was needed. That was a call for tender. There they were able to participate in these companies was, of course, the criterion of the company having a licence. It is true that this procurement already has a number of litigations and is currently ongoing, including those of private operators or private health service providers. How they end, it's up to the court. There's no way to say that there's been a drop in volume. On the contrary, let's take the same Medicum on Red Street. There has been an increase in the provision of services for certain doctors and certain professions. I think it is very important that there has been and that there will continue the work of primary, or family doctors, and that they will continue to provide services. I don't understand you. If you are saying that this procurement should not have been organised, then the following sentence should also be said: what should have been done then. From 1 October, those tenderers who won the procurement will have to proceed with their service offer.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U55	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! This call for a health insurance fund has caused confusion, especially among patients. They have questions about whether they can continue to visit the same doctor in the same place and how it all goes on. It's not like litigation is gonna help these patients, far from it. Unfortunately, you can't ask Riina Sikkut, but has the Minister presented to you, or has the government discussed any specific conclusions about this last procurement from the Health Insurance Fund? Is there a need to change something in the law so that these things don't happen so clumsyly in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U57	Thank you. Of course we've been through this. I've been discussing it with the Minister for Health and Labour, I've been discussing it with the officials, I've been discussing it with the head of the Health Insurance Fund. They all say that it was about EUR 50 million outsourcing, which is a really big procurement. We may see similar volumes of procurement only for infrastructure objects. I agree with you that these disputes do not give patients any solution at the moment, but if there are disputes, they must be kept to the end. I, too, am far from satisfied with this situation. But we have to take into account that we have a free market economy in Estonia, and if we need to find a new service provider, as prescribed by the order and court, it will be found in the tender procedure. You spoke about the place where the patient receives the service. I know that, I think, very seriously, is that, if we make such purchases in the capital, for example, this regional delimitation has turned out to be the right thing to do. I think, for example, that if we say that this service provider has to be in Harjumaa, the area is too large. If we say he has to be in Tallinn, then we could debate it. Perhaps this area is too large and should be said more precisely, I do not know, for example, the accuracy of the district. I know there are negotiations between the Health Insurance Fund and East Tallinn that certain receptions were to be continued in Lasnamäe, based on this aspect of the place. In particular, as far as I know, this should concern the appointment of an ear, nose and throat doctor.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U58	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U59	Riina Sikkut, Minister of Health and Labour, now answers the question asked by Raivo Põldaru. Please, Raivo Põldaru!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. Let's get back to medical. A lot of money goes from the state budget to the health insurance fund, but, unfortunately, medicines and soft medicines have remained like orphans. But let's start by saying that access to medicines is important. In this respect, it was carried out in 2000-2009. In 2008, an OECD study, showing 73% in 30 countries, led to an increase in drug innovation in life expectancy. It is very important to contribute to this and to the healthy lives of our lives. The question is that we have this thing somewhat inflexible and very long-lasting, and there is no regulation that would allow exceptional situations to be resolved quickly. Will the Ministry, under the leadership of the new Minister, do anything to make new medicines more rapid to the market, and this process, especially in the case of rare diseases, would be faster?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U61	Thank you very much for your question. Indeed, the availability of new and innovative medicines as well as services and medical devices on the Estonian market has been a matter of concern for many years. On the one hand, we are a small market and we are not, of course, attractive. On the other hand, there is the question of how to price these new and innovative things, which is the value they also offer. As there are very few scientific articles on new things, it would be very important for us to carry out joint clinical evaluations at European Union level, which are currently being discussed. This clinical evaluation is all the more important because, when you look at the statistics for 2017, we see that more than half of the new medicines that came into the central marketing authorisation market in the European Union did not actually offer significant clinical added value, but they were more expensive. The sorting that we are financing for our common collected healthcare money, the explanation of what the value we want to offer to patients at this price, and the transparency of the process, is extremely important. But if we look at the whole pharmaceutical market, whether we look at the density of pharmacies, the amount spent on preferential medicines by patients, which has been decreasing for years, or the additional medical benefits, it turns out that the medicines have actually become more affordable and accessible to people.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U62	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U63	Mr. Chairman! Good minister! My second question is about money. The money will be allocated more to the sickness fund, and we have gone this way to reduce the queues. However, medicines are also important because they increase life expectancy and increase the number of healthy years of life. Once, the OECD carried out a study showing that the additional financial contribution reduced the costs of hospitals by 370% later. I mean, people will live healthier then, and it is important to contribute to it, but we will contribute much less than other countries, including our neighbours. If, a few years ago, we were perhaps on the same level as Latvia, including Lithuania, they now contribute much more per person. So if the budget of the Health Insurance Fund grows and we talk about betting, then the wager is huge, but the money goes much less on medicines. We've reached 15% from 17% years ago...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U64	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U65	...just by making a financial contribution.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U66	Thank you. The amount that we spend as a whole on the financing of preferential medicines is increasing very significantly. This year it will be close to 140 million, next year it will rise to 172 million. The list of preferential medicines is constantly updated. What are these clinically proven and financially feasible medicines? This year, 13 new active substances were added, including six for cancer treatment. The same is true of what can be included in next year's price list. There are also two aspects. One is the choice of medicines that are on the list of preferential medicines and that are potentially available to people. The other thing is their price and availability. Estonian people's own contribution to health care has been analysed for many years. The largest part of the own contribution consists of expenditure on medicinal products. Statistics show that about a third of recipes are excluded for economic reasons. Therefore, in addition to diversifying the list of preferential medicines, it is very clear that the medicines that are on the list should be available to people economically so that people can buy them. Here again comes the additional medical allowance that can come to the aid of people who have either chronic illness or who are very suddenly ill and who have high medical costs, so that no one pays more than EUR 100 or 300 per year for prescription medicines.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U67	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U68	The Minister of Health and Labour, Riina Sikkut, is now asking a question to Krista Aru. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U69	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister! According to the national broadcasting, last week you brought a proposal to the government to set up a new state-owned company in English. I have two questions covered by one question. Why is this state-owned company needed, and why does it have only an English name? Is this really necessary because the Ministry does not have enough competence to deal with and analyse such a large amount of data? We know that attempts are being made to reduce the emergence of new state-owned companies and, rather, to make savings here. Please explain where such a need and why!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U70	Thank you for your question. Indeed, the ERR correctly reported that I went to the government with such a proposal last week. We have a huge amount of data collected and we also need to create value at national level; they must be of good quality; they must be used. The question is how we can achieve the secondary use of data, both in the health sector and in other sectors. These data are available and we have the authorities that collect these data, but there is no clear responsibility, which will also coordinate this cooperation internationally. The Ministry of Social Affairs has come up with a proposal to do this in the form of a public limited company in order to make it clear who is responsible and also to have an economic incentive to achieve self-profit. This public limited liability company is actually a "cooperative organisation." Cooperation between international research institutions and companies and Estonian research institutions and companies and based on our data, new services, new knowledge, new medicines should be created. These data enable all of this to be done, and now the question is how we can operate this activity actively. The company operates in our current legal area. We call it a project management company, which brings the ends together and allows data usage. No data will be handed over to anyone, this data will be used at our terminals, linking our databases, no one will use or see personalised data. Cooperation in itself does not work now and a clear responsibility is needed. As data is a value, the pursuit of profit and self-sufficiency are also very important for this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U71	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U72	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for your answer, Madam Minister. I will now ask directly what the government's position was, what the reaction was. Is this new state company in the form of a foundation, as I understand it, and with the first financing of 1.5 million, being established and when will it be established? How is its staff set up and how precisely a list of tasks is fixed? We have a lot of databases, several research institutions have dealt with them, but they are uncoordinated, of course. When can we see a new company born?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U73	Thank you. There was a cabinet debate in the government, which was the first debate on this specific proposal. The Ministry of Social Affairs was tasked with continuing to address the issue, to become more specific and to return to the government with this more specific proposal. Two aspects of the government also raised questions. On the one hand, the protection of personal data is ensured, so that the data is still anonymised or unpersonalised, so that the data does not leave Estonia. This is all about security and data protection. On the other hand, it's a form of work. Could this be done by a unit of the Ministry of Social Affairs, could it be done by the Technical Service or the Statistical Office, or would it really be necessary to set up a separate organisation specifically for this task? These are the two aspects that we still need to negotiate and agree on.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U74	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U75	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! Krista Arul also had this question about the time frame in which this 'new job' option could materialise and how many people should be there. Your answers were a little confusing. You said that this was primarily necessary for international research, but you said that the data could not be used internationally, so that they could only be used in Estonia. What exactly is this mechanism and purpose? In the country as a whole, we have a major problem with the fact that data are not interoperable. It is likely that in the field of defence, and everywhere, personal data is needed if anything happens. How does this innovation fulfil this objective of systematic cross-use of data in Estonia? Are you still proposing the whole...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U76	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U77	... or are you proposing only in your small field?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U78	Thank you. Of course, both the legislative framework and the action that makes the use of data possible are designed in a holistic way, for all areas. No data will be released, no data will be sold, no one will be the owner of the data of Estonian people. But the question is that these data have value only when they are used. A research institution or company may have a question that it would like to receive an answer to using Estonian data. The health and well-being of the Information Systems Foundation is what we call a terminal. Data analysis can be done on the data, your question can be answered, but data if no one gets one. The data will be linked to answer this one question, they will not be raised, they will not be created in a super database. This knowledge is needed by a research organisation or company. That's the value he's paying for, that's what he's getting from us. He can't get the data. According to the proposal of the Ministry of Social Affairs, the size of the organisation is 5 to 7 people. There is a need for IT competence, data analysis competence, lawyer competence to bring all ends together and allow for a holistic approach. Time perspective. If we can reach an agreement, the establishment of an institution that operates in the existing judicial area would be quick. You can do that in a few months. It is simply a question of when it will work, when it will become self-reliant. According to the plan, this will take place in three years. During this period, enough projects can be brought in to become profitable for the Estonian state.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U79	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U80	Prime Minister Jüri Ratas is asking for Peter Ernits. Please, Peter Ernits!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U81	Good manager! Good Prime Minister! Ülo Vooglaid, who has recently received the Life Work Prize for Education, has said that turning Estonian into a corner in universities is far worse than treason than some Dressens have been able to do. Professor Ehala recently wrote that during the last five years there had been an explosive expansion of higher education in English: 2.5% a year. For example, the university already has a quarter of the Master's degree in English, the Technical University 41% etc. There are already ten curricula in English only: philosophy, media art, etc. He says that, as this development continues, in five years' time, half the subjects will be in English and in ten years' time, Estonian-language higher education would fit into one teacher's seminar. Indeed, part of the medical training will probably remain in Estonian.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U82	Question please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U83	Yes! My question is very simple: as Prime Minister, do you sense that there will be a sneaking treason, a switch to English and the transformation of Estonian into cuisine?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U84	Thank you for your question. I think that, in any case, it must be ensured that in our good higher education institutions, Estonian-language curricula and education in Estonian are possible today, but also in the future, and there is a possibility to do different degrees of science. The fact that we have to keep in mind that all science is international is also a fact. But in any case, I think it is right that Estonian-language education in our higher education should continue in the future. I have studied the situation at Tallinn University of Technology, for example. There are about ten curricula in doctoral studies and it is possible to study in both Estonian and English. This situation is certainly different in different universities. You raised this issue today. In my opinion, the next meetings of the Research and Development Council, or TAN, could also discuss what to do in order to ensure that in international competition for science we can also ensure that it is possible to study in English, in Estonian.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U85	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U86	Good manager! Prime Minister! Although the Constitution says that it must teach in Estonian, it does not say whether or not in higher education. The same Martin Ehala has said directly that Tartu will quickly become bilingual, just as it was in the 19th century, and the Estonian language will become cuisine. It's a very dangerous thing, because it's going to take place at the university, then in high school seniors, then in regular school and finally in kindergarten. My question is this: we were able to resist Russification, but is there any way and how the government plans to face the current rapid transition to English?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U87	Thank you. Today's government is definitely planning to do everything in its power to hold and develop the Estonian language and to ensure that all levels of education in Estonian continue and progress. That is definitely our responsibility. It follows, as you quoted, from the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U88	Thank you, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas! Thank you, ministers Jüri Luik and Riina Sikkut! Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U89	Honourable Riigikogu! Good afternoon. Is there a desire to hand over drafts or inquiries? No, it's not. Incoming check, please! 85 members of the Riigikogu are present.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U90	Honourable Riigikogu! Let's get started. First of all, the Government of the Republic has initiated the third reading of Bill 652 amending the Family Benefits Act and related amendments to other laws. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Group of the Marika Tuus-Laul Centre Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U91	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, After all, we have often asked ourselves what to do to make more children born. In any case, we can rejoice this year because 8% more births have been registered in eight months of this year than in the same period last year. The number of births of third children has risen the most by 32%. The number of second-born children has increased by 9% and the number of fourth and subsequent children has already increased by 17%. This shows that consistent action in the area of family policy has been very productive. Certainly, our current good economic situation is also behind the increase in birth rates, certainly because unemployment is low and people's wages have also increased. After all, we have noticed that the times of large cuts are the opposite and the number of births is decreasing. Of course, it would be nice if wages in our country were so high that child benefits, parental benefits and all kinds of social benefits would not be necessary if we were in such a good financial condition, but of course this is not the case. Today, however, we can see that every single step of the country we have taken will increase the number of births if families improve their livelihoods and incomes increase. Currently, the first and second children's allowance is EUR 55; next year it will increase to EUR 60; for the third children, it will be EUR 100. We know that a family of between three and seven children will receive another EUR 300. If we put it all together, we'll get 520 euros, so a pretty nice support for a three-year-old family. This is certainly the result of a 32% increase, yes, the number of third-child births. From last year, an additional EUR 300 is valid for up to seven children. If there are already seven or more children in the family, the supplement will increase to EUR 400, so that a family with seven children will get well over EUR 1000. The multiple support also increased to EUR 1000 per month in March, paid to one parent until the child reached 18 months of age. The changes that we want to adopt together will significantly increase flexibility, families will have more choice, they will be able to decide for themselves how and when to use parental benefit and take additional days of leave to deal with the child. This law creates the possibility for parents to spend 60 days together on parental leave and receive parental benefit at the same time. You will also be able to take parental leave on a day by day, as the parents feel good about it. This change allows both parents to work, such as part-time work, and to be at home in turn with the child. We will still remember what came into force from March: it is possible to earn much more work when the parental benefit is paid than before; earlier it was 470, now EUR 1544. All of these have also been welcome changes. In the future, from 2020, there will be another month's extra vacation. Apart from supporting the birth of children, other things that benefit families have been important. We contribute to education every day and create opportunities for children to get an interest education. We have allocated funds so that every child can go to at least one club for free. We see that the issue of children and families continues to be very important, and we hope that after the elections we will be able to move on with it. Can I have a few more minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U92	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U93	We personally set ourselves the goal of raising the support of the first and second children to EUR 100 per month, that is our aim. We will definitely continue to finance hobby groups, and we will also move towards free day care for children. I think it is also very important that we help families to create a home, apart from paying subsidies. This is extremely important, and there are actually a lot of possibilities here. One of the possibilities that our party sees here is to help young families with a home loan without a deposit, so if you have to take a home loan, the state will help with paying the deposit. But, of course, there are other options. For example, we have proposed a system of certificates that the state provides financial support to the family for the birth of second and third children in order to erase the mortgage or simply to help create a new home. It's all at your discretion how families want it. These are our plans. Let's hope you come with many of them, and we can move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U94	Marko Pomerants on behalf of the Fatherland Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U95	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Let's take out the Pomeranian Songbook, page 159, 'Minister and Bills': 'Dear President! Dear Riigikogu! This is a very good draft,' Minister Rein Lang of the Riigikogu spokesperson to begin his first reading of the bill. Really, God gave the job, he's giving the bill. ' When we read Kalle Muuli's book 'The State of Citizens', we are part of how from the perspective of the Reform Party the draft Parental Benefits Act came into existence: soy and ready! The coalition agreement stated: "We provide income for the mother at home with a small child. The mother's salary is maintained for a total period of 12 months before and after childbirth. Mothers without income receive this allowance on the basis of a minimum wage. The maximum wage retained by the mother shall be a minimum of three average salaries. The amendment shall take effect from 1 January 2004. ' Reform party steam went to maximize the ceiling, in this respect the Minister of Economic Affairs Meelis Atonen and the Minister of Population Paul-Eerik Rummo were intensive political advisor to Taavi Rõivas. What the conditions and nuances of parental benefit could be, these discussions were still held in the Ministry of Social Affairs with the people of the head of the Social Security Department, Merle Malvet. Questions came up like mushrooms after rain. Shouldn't both parents have the right to be at home with the child and to receive compensation? This resulted in parental benefit from the maternity allowance. Secondly, encouraging work (read: permit). After all, the coalition contract made it a condition for receiving compensation to be at home with the child. From the coordination circle, the Minister of Population and the Ministry of Culture proposed to support the successive births of children. The solution was to maintain the parental benefit in the past if there was a small difference between the births of children. Since we, Res Publica, had a number of doctors in the Riigikogu, the importance of breast milk came into play, and during the Riigikogu proceedings the draft said that the first six months must be at home with the child. Leili Matsar and Pille Liima almost stayed in the Ministry because there was very little time to draft, the law had to enter into force in January. You see, since 2004 we have reached today with parental benefit and the year is 2018. The preceding story was meant to show that all this time was actually spent realizing and improving one idea. Today we have come to a situation where the original idea has become one of the most flexible in the world among our kind when we are talking about a family benefit system. Raivo Põldaru here asked if Pomerants would really read the law like Marika Tuus-Laul. I might even read, but I don't have that much time. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U96	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U97	But maybe I'll just tell those people outside this hall who are actually affected by this bill, and maybe to some who are in this Chamber, just to know that indeed, the system developed over the course of 14 years has now been improved. Indeed, there are more flexible ways of suspending and restarting parental benefits according to the person's wishes. It offers parents more opportunities than before to take care of a small child or to use the benefit in part over a longer period. There are always nuances. For example, parents whose child was born prematurely will have 30 days of parental leave, better opportunities for raising children without parental care and additional days of leave for children under 14 years, which have already been discussed here. We are talking in society about the need to cut red tape. The bill will make people's lives easier, reduce the administrative burden on employers and reduce the bureaucracy of the state. All operations will be carried out by the Social Insurance Board; for a person this means accepting the offer of family benefits. The different types of leave and benefits to date will become uniform, maternity leave will be renamed maternity leave, and mothers will be paid the mother's parental benefit instead of maternity benefit. Are we there now? I don't know. There are laws that have been amended by the Riigikogu 50 times. Let's move on! But today, I would ask everyone to support this excellent bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U98	Helmen Kütt on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U99	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good fellows! Soon we will be voting on the draft law amending the Family Benefits Act. This bill is good and is also born for a very noble purpose. There is much talk of flexible future work and family challenges in adapting to them. That is why working parents need more flexibility in the way they organise their family life. The main objective of the draft is to change the behaviour of parents in the future and to share the administrative burden between parents by valuing the time spent together by the family. Maternity leave will be added to the parental leave system and the proposed changes will lead to more choice for parents. Parental benefit can be taken out at the same time in the future. The draft creates the possibility for parents to spend 60 days together on parental leave and receive parental benefit for this period. In the future, until the child reaches three years of age, there will also be the possibility of withdrawing parental benefit on a calendar day-by-day basis, still for the purpose of offering parents more opportunities to use the benefit over a longer period of time and in part, allowing the parent to work alternately and also be at home with the child. The draft also changes the regulation of parental leave. While the proposed draft provided for the possibility for both parents to take 20 working days' paid parental leave for two parents until the child reached the age of nine, the Social Affairs Committee took a step forward and decided that this leave could be used until the child reached the age of 14. In addition, a child whose parent has died or whose father is not listed in the population register has the possibility to spend up to 20 working days with an existing parent. The draft we are going to vote on today is also good because, in addition to parents, it is intended for employers. The draft reduces the administrative burden on employers. In the case of parental leave or paternity leave, the employer no longer has to apply to the Social Insurance Board for compensation for the holiday fee. The workload of the health insurance fund will be reduced as there is no need to calculate, pay and exchange maternity benefits. All these activities will be carried out in the future by the Social Insurance Board, and this also means the need for a person to turn to only one institution. This bill looks to the future and ensures that parents can share their burden evenly. The Social Democrats support this bill becoming a law and invite all good colleagues to do the same and vote in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U100	Mrs Kangro, I am asking on behalf of which group. [[A voice from the hall.]] Second-reading would have. I'm closing the negotiations. Honourable Riigikogu, the Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote of 652. Honourable Riigikogu, Bill 652 requires a majority of the Riigikogu's membership to be adopted as a law. Incoming check, please! There are 88 members of the Riigikogu. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the amendment of the Family Benefits Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws Act 652. Please take a stand and vote. There are 88 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft 652 as a law, and there are no opposing and impartial members. The law amending the Family Benefits Act and related amendments to other laws has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U101	The third reading of the Gambling Tax Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Estonian Cultural Endowment Act Amendment Act 632. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote on 632. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the Gambling Tax Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the draft law amending the Estonian Cultural Endowment Act 632. Please take a stand and vote. 53 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the adoption of the draft 632 Act, 25 against and 3 abstentions. The Act amending the Gambling Tax Act and the Estonian Cultural Endowment Act has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U102	Second reading of draft Act 644 on Accession to the Nagoya Protocol on Access to Genetic Resources and the Fair and Equitable Sharing of Benefits from their Use, initiated by the Government of the Republic. The Environment Committee waitress Terje Trei, please! [[It's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U103	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Bill 644, on access to genetic resources of the Convention on Biological Diversity and the benefits of their exploitation... It's so loud! [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] ... and the text of the draft Act of Accession to the Nagoya Protocol on the fair and equitable distribution of the proceeds of their use has not changed during the draft procedure. It consists of two paragraphs. First, to accede to the Nagoya Protocol on Access to Genetic Resources and the Fair and Equitable Sharing of Benefits from their Use, adopted on 29 October 2010 in Nagoya. Second: designate the Ministry of the Environment as the national contact point for access and benefit sharing referred to in Article 13 (1) of the Nagoya Protocol. The draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 28 May. The first reading took place in this Chamber on 12 September. The first reading was closed and the deadline for submitting amendments was set at 16 a.m. on 26 September. The members of the Riigikogu and the political groups did not propose any amendments to the draft. The Committee on the Environment dealt with the draft on 8 October and made the following decisions by consensus: to propose a second reading of draft 644 on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu today, 17 October and to propose a final vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U104	Questions for the waitress. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U105	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Dear waitress, Maybe it was handled at first reading, but I've forgotten it. What does fair distribution mean, are we paying more or getting more?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U106	It still means that whoever owns the resource will be rewarded. We will not have any heavy costs.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U107	No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. As you have heard, the Committee on the Environment is proposing a final vote on draft 644. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on draft Act 644 on Accession to the Nagoya Protocol on Access to Genetic Resources and the Fair and Equitable Sharing of Benefits from Their Use, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. 70 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 3 against and no abstentions. Bill 644 has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U108	Second reading of the Act amending the Consumer Protection Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 661. The rapporteur for the Economic Commission is Tarmo Kruusimäe. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U109	Good Chairman! Good coworkers! I am really glad that I can be here before you with such an extraordinary bill. Why is he so extraordinary? Speaking in the language of the people, he is concerned with the so-called geoblock. When Estonia was holding the Presidency last summer, it raised this problem. It is also particularly important that the Committee on Economic Affairs met exceptionally on 9 July to discuss this. Now we are already at second reading and I have some procedural decisions to read. But before I do, I want to tell you that very few people may be able to say at once what is one fine unit calculated in euro. It is precisely this discussion that we had in the Committee on Economic Affairs. I can tell you at this point that I am not keeping my knowledge under control, but that I share with you that there is currently one fine unit of EUR 4. This is for you to know more about this. Now it's procedural decisions. Two amendments were received by the Economic Commission, both linguistic. We didn't argue with the language editors for long, we agreed with them. It was decided that today the second reading of the draft should be supported and that the end of the reading should be supported. If you support it, the draft should be sent to third reading and the large hall would be on 24 October, according to our estimates. All these decisions were a surprise-surprise! - consensual. I'm going to read out once who attended this hearing. Toomas Kivimägi, Arto Aas, Erki Savisaar, Jaanus Marandi, Kristen Michal, Märt Sults, Peeter Ernits and Tarmo Kruusimäe took part in the meeting, and then there were our good advisers, whom I also mention here: Elis Themas, Kaido Rosin, Marin Daniel and Piia Schults. Thank you! I look forward to your support for the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U110	No questions for the waitress. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. The second reading of Bill 661 is complete. Sorry, my bad! Two amendments were tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs on the draft, and we will examine them. The first amendment and the second amendment. The second reading of Bill 661 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U111	Second reading of the draft Act amending the Law of the State Gazette initiated by the Government of the Republic. Helmut Hallemaa, rapporteur for the Constitutional Commission, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U112	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Bill 659, draft law amending the Law of the State Gazette, was before us at first reading on 19 September and the second reading was discussed at the Commission on 9 October. This law makes the issuance of the State Gazette more appropriate, abolishes the requirement to retain all original documents (except the law) in paper form. All of them, however, are stored digitally in the information system of the State Gazette. Marko Pomerants, chairman of the committee, Hanno Pevkur, Helmut Hallemaa, Raivo Põldaru Jaak Madison and Mart Nutt, vice-president of the committee, took part in the meeting and later reached a consensus (all decisions we made in consensus, both procedural proposals and one amendment). Invited by Jüri Heinla, Head of the Office of the Official Journal of the State of the Ministry of Justice. Mr Pomerants, the Chairman of the Adviser-Secretariat, Mr Eneveer, Mr Heinla and Mr Pevkur took part in the debate. There were no amendments from outside the Commission, but we decided to make one amendment ourselves. Its text was formulated in cooperation with Jüri Heinla, the publisher of the State Gazette. This changes the part that until now even the smallest linguistic inaccuracies could be corrected only with the consent or at the request of the legislator. The possibility of improving obvious inaccuracies will now remain in the law, both on the initiative of the State Gazette and at the request of the author of the act, provided that the correction of the error does not affect the rights and obligations of persons. A change made on its own initiative shall inform the issuer of the State Gazette of the act and, if necessary, may request the consent of the issuer of the act to make a correction. We supported this amendment consensually and made procedural decisions: to put the draft on the plenary agenda today and to conclude the second reading, and, if so, to carry out the third reading on 24 October and to put it to a final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U113	No questions for the waitress. Thank you, Helmut Hallemaa! I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. One amendment to the draft 659 was tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and has been fully taken into account. No one has any other opinions. The second reading of Bill 659 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U114	Second reading of the draft law amending the Public Information Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Marko Pomerants, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, is a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U115	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 8 October, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs prepared a draft law amending the Public Information Act for a second reading in this Chamber. No amendments were received for the deadline, but since the date of entry into force of the law proposed by the initiator was unrealistic and has passed by today, the Commission has tabled an amendment with a very simple content: this law will enter into force on 1 December 2018. This day is ahead of us and there is enough time to enforce this law. Procedural decisions: propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda on 17 October (here we are) and the Commission's proposal is to conclude the second reading of the draft. We also had a consensus on this.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U116	No questions for the waitress. Thank you, Marko Pomerants! I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. One amendment to draft 671 was tabled by the Commission, the Commission naturally took this into account, and there are no other opinions in the House. Second reading of bill 671 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U117	We begin the first reading of the State Budget Act 2019 (700 SE) initiated by the Government of the Republic. On behalf of the originator, the rapporteur, Minister of Finance Toomas Tõniste, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U118	Honourable Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The state budget for 2019 is ahead of you. It is a responsible budget that supports the growth of our economy, security and family well-being in a balanced way, the tax burden is stable, the debt burden is falling and public finances are also in good order at the end of 2019. Basically the same things I said a year ago about this year's budget, and time has shown that this has happened. We are likely to end 2018 with a surplus in both structural and nominal terms. Life's gotten better, too. Starting with economic growth. The old truth is that only when the economy is growing will it be possible to better finance our defence and internal security, our education, science, culture, sport, health care and help those who need state support to cope. The current situation and prospects of our economy are good. Our economy is growing, our companies are moving up the value chain, productivity is increasing and exports are growing. We are increasingly able to export services, both the export of IT services and logistics services are growing. Of the most important markets, exports to Finland, Latvia, Germany and the United States have increased. Corporate savings will also increase, which means that our companies will be better protected against crises. Their investment capacity will be improved and, hopefully, investments will also increase in the future. Another obstacle to even faster growth is the lack of working hands, especially in construction and service, which also creates pressure to relax Estonia's conservative immigration policy, with its own risks. From a far-reaching perspective, investment in technology, as well as retraining, will certainly help to alleviate the shortage of work. Thanks to good economic growth and productivity growth, our average incomes are also growing faster than the average in the euro area. Most people are paying lower income tax than ever since this year due to the increase in the tax-free rate. And while inflation is rather high, more and more people are able to set aside money for savings alongside growing consumption. Of course, growth does not affect everyone in the same way, but surely now is the time for a person who wants to work to find a job. Overall: the current state of our economy is good, but certainly we will not make a budget at a time of extraordinary economic growth, as was the case in 2006 and 2007. In a long line of years, our situation is rather medium or slightly better. But as they say, the beautiful weather doesn't last forever, and the pill can be long in beauty. We must therefore ask whether our country is sufficiently prepared for possible crises. The short answer is that no country in the world is prepared for everything bad, but the Risk Management Committee of the Ministry of Finance and Eesti Pank considers that our reserves and financial buffers are sufficient for possible crises. The good state of public finances is also confirmed by the international credit rating agency Fitch, who last raised our country's rating from A+ to AA with a stable outlook. According to the agency, Estonia's improved ability to withstand the potential negative effects of the external environment, the good state of our public finances and a strong economic policy framework contributed to the increase in the rating. In addition, the Agency also stressed that our loan burden is one of the lowest and lowest among AA-rated countries throughout the European Union. The low loan burden is certainly an important part of our preparedness for possible crises. According to the Board of Budgets, the summer economic forecast of the Ministry of Finance reflects the future development of the Estonian economy with sufficient credibility. If you look at the country more broadly, municipalities will also face 2019 with a strong financial standing. They have accumulated a considerable amount of liquid resources, amounting to EUR 190 million by the end of 2018. The net indebtedness of municipalities has decreased. Within this framework, it is also necessary to assess the fears of the financial specialists of the opposition, both last year and this year. I can't help but remember a folk talk about a shepherd's boy screaming that the wolf was coming, that the villagers were collapsing, but the wolf was nowhere. I'm going from here to the budget revenue. Entrepreneurs and business organisations with whom I have spoken say that there is nothing more disturbing than constant uncertainty about what new tax the country might suddenly impose on you. I agree with those who say that this coalition, too, initially crossed over with new taxes and worked hard in some places. Finally, many of the taxes proposed in the coalition agreement were not imposed, but it would have been better and less confusing if they had not been planned at all. Surely this is a good lesson for all of us. The 2019 budget is in this sense a very good budget, so that new taxes and tax increases are not expected and no new taxes are introduced. This is a fiscal austerity budget. The only significant tax change we are making in the context of this budget is the elimination of the proposed increases in alcohol duty. The Fatherland would have liked to take a longer step here to reduce border trade, but we agreed with the coalition partners to stop further increases in excise duty. Surely this debate has not yet come to a conclusion in society. The amount of revenue for the 2019 budget is estimated by the Ministry of Finance at just over EUR 11 billion. Of this, 70% are tax revenues. A little over 15% of income is non-tax income. In addition, there is revenue in the budget that does not remain at the disposal of the government. These are personal income tax and land tax, which we pass on to local governments, as well as unemployment insurance and funded pension contributions. Such revenue is slightly above 14% in the budget. If you look at tax revenues in more detail, the big picture is similar to that of previous years. Our tax burden will be 33.6% next year, or more or less at the same level as it has been for the last three years and where it rose before the previous elections to the budget made by the Reform Party and the Socialist Coalition. The largest share of the tax revenue received by the state is the social tax, which accounts for 42%. In the second place, VAT amounts to 33% and 14% of the country's tax revenue comes from excise duties, 10% from income tax. This in turn accounts for 7% of it from legal persons and 3% from natural persons. However, the majority, or almost 80% of personal income tax, is passed on to the budgets of local governments and therefore the share of this tax in the state budget is small. All other taxes account for only 1% of state revenue. Non-tax revenues account for the highest proportion of grants, which actually means mainly the money we receive from the European Union budget. This amount will be slightly over EUR 1 billion next year and will not change significantly compared to this year. The sale of goods and services, financial revenues, i.e. dividends and other income from predominantly state-owned companies, are already at a lower level. The main part of the increase in tax revenues comes from five places. Social tax revenues increase by 235 million euros, or 7.7%. VAT receipts will increase by 204 million euros, or 8.7%, and excise taxes will increase by 44 million euros, of which 38 million euros will come from a larger collection of excise duties on fuel. In addition, revenues from the sale of goods and services will increase by EUR 57 million, mainly due to higher revenues from the CO2 quota. Financial revenues, i.e. mainly dividends, increase by 56 million euros. In total, these revenues, which remain at the disposal of the State, will increase by 5.9% or EUR 532 million, and the revenue to be transferred will increase by EUR 108 million. I will continue with state budget expenditure and investment. Next year, state budget expenditure and investment will increase by 7%, or around EUR 735 million, totalling EUR 11.3 billion. Looking at the general government as a whole, our expenditure remains at around 40% of GDP. The central government's share is 33%, and it also does not change significantly compared to previous years. Overall, the state's costs increase with the economy and the country's share of the economy remains stable. From a longer perspective, my concern as an entrepreneur and finance minister is how to keep or reduce the share of the state in the economy when at least part of the society expects the state to have ever closer safety nets and better quality and more accessible public services throughout Estonia and some forces want to expand the range of free services further. If you don't set the limit here, it could inevitably lead to tax increases in the future. Free things are not really free and, as taxpayers, we have to end up paying for them. That is what we must consider. If we go to the expenditures of the 2019 budget, it must be said that this is, of course, the face of the coalition that governs the budget and not the opposition. A little less than two years ago, the coalition agreed on the basic principles of action, as well as on the higher costs that were included in the country's budget strategy. So there aren't enough surprises here. In addition to the coalition agreement, the budget must also take account of existing laws and costs that lock down most of the budget. Such expenses include pensions, amounts to the sickness insurance fund, family allowances and a number of other social benefits, the rates or formulas of which are laid down by law. In addition, certain expenditure groups, such as defence and research development, are linked to the growth of the state budget under political agreements. All such factors reduce the freedom of action of the government, as well as the Riigikogu, when deciding about the budget and making political choices. That is why we are rather opposed to linking new costs to growth, inflation, tax receipts or so. Looking at the bigger expenditures in this budget, the vast majority of the additional money goes to social benefits and social security, which totals EUR 3.3 billion. This amount will increase by just over EUR 200 million, or 6%. These are mostly expenses that have been passed on to the Riigikogu government by law. This money also includes an increase in parental benefit and pensions, which are largely automatic and are moving together with wage growth, as well as an increase in first and second child support. Our health care costs will increase by over 12% next year, which is significantly faster than the economy, because one of the most financially costly decisions of this coalition is the decision to start paying the health insurance fund for pensioners who are not working. This decision, together with a better collection of health insurance contributions from the Health Insurance Fund, allows us to pay our doctors and nurses a better salary and also to increase the volume of health care services. It will also increase the budgetary stability of health insurance in the long term if the relationship between employees and pensioners changes. The total budget of the Health Insurance Fund is close to EUR 180 million, but it must be taken into account that some of the additional tasks are added to the Health Insurance Fund. The cost of providing labour market services will also increase by 18%, or EUR 85 million, totalling EUR 568 million. In addition to social policy, it is also an economic policy because it helps people to match their skills to the needs of the labour market and helps to solve labour shortages. Education and science are one of the broadest areas where there is a lot of extra money. There are more costly decisions to increase R &amp; D expenditure with GDP and an increase in the pay fund for teachers and educators, which enables our schools to keep and hire good teachers. The total budget of the Ministry of Education and Research is 66 million euros, or 10.5%. Over EUR 60 million of additional money will go to defence costs, which will keep defence costs at 2.16% of GDP according to NATO definition. The amount of defence costs by this definition is EUR 585 million. One major decision of this year, which was actually cross-cutting, concerned the country's critical IT systems and the people serving them. For IT projects, this budget envisages an increase of EUR 21 million, plus nearly EUR 6 million for the remuneration fund of IT specialists. We want to increase the general payroll by 2.5% and the price is 12.4 million euros. In addition, we have focused additional amounts on the wage growth of priority target groups: they are officials guaranteeing internal security, employees of IT institutions, teachers, cultural workers, prison workers, tax officials, social welfare workers, etc. In total, the country's wage costs increase by 69 million euros, i.e. 5.8%. However, lower than the average wage growth, the growth of the payroll for the rest of the target groups means that if these institutions want to accompany the average wage growth, they need to reform and become more effective. I believe that this is possible and certainly necessary. If we look at the area of government of the Ministry of Finance, we have taken control of the distribution of hundreds of millions of euros of support money from the EAS and are trying to make the system more efficient and more convenient for applicants. In the same way, Statistics Estonia is updating its systems in order to be more efficient, more customer-friendly and less burdensome with reports. These are examples of practical state reform. In a few minutes, it will not be possible to talk about what teachers, scientists, doctors, nurses, defence forces, police officers, border guards, tax officials, rescuers, IT specialists and other public services people will actually do next year for this money to improve the lives of our people and the country. This is the explanatory memorandum to the state budget and the development plans of the ministries, which anyone can see. Also, all ministers are certainly prepared to talk about what taxpayers' money will be spent on in their area of government next year and what it hopes to achieve. Honourable Riigikogu! In a few words, I will talk about what investments the state will make. First of all, the level of government investment in Estonia is already high compared to many other countries. This is also natural, as we still stand before the fact that during the period of socialist occupation in Estonia, decent roads and houses were not built for nearly 50 years and what was built fell apart faster than was achieved. In 2019, government investment will grow in line with the economy and will be 5.8% to 5.9% of GDP. Five more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U119	Five minutes extra time, nothing to do.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U120	The total amount of central government investment is EUR 11 billion and investment is increasing by EUR 33 million, or 3%. The main investments go to roads, transport, defence, information technology, the school network, water infrastructure and the construction of health centres and special care facilities and support rural areas. However, we are forecasting investment growth somewhat faster than economic growth on the municipal side, because probably because of the administrative reform, but possibly also because of other reasons, local governments have rather held back investments in recent years, even though the local governments' budgets have grown strongly and will also grow next year with wage growth. However, if you look at the whole, the government sector will also maintain a stable line with its investments, and the already hard-working construction market will not be boosted. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The state budget for 2019 is ahead of you. It is a responsible budget that supports growth in our economy, security and family well-being so that the budget is balanced and the tax burden is stable. The debt burden will decrease and public finances will also be in good order at the end of 2019. I ask you to support this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U121	The round of questions will be opened by Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U122	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, A month ago, we were in a situation where we were talking about the need for 50 million efforts to balance the budget plan. And then, oh, my gosh, one of the contract partners of the Ministry of Social Affairs specified the forecast of work capacity support. And little of the fact that you have broken this concern, you also have the opportunity to share quite generously the so-called 'roof money'. Today's Äripäev is dealing with this subject quite thoroughly. My question is: how do you reject the accusation that the forecast has been played in order to achieve balance? And if you look at the budget explanatory memorandum a little bit more carefully, even on page 84, which lists the expenses of the Ministry of Justice, we can see that there are quite a few organisations that have never received any money before and now suddenly get it. How do you reject these press claims that they are pre-election gifts?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U123	Thank you. You can always blame every coalition for wanting to give gifts to someone when it comes to budgeting. It's not a pre-Christmas budget, it's not a gift budget. It has a budget of over EUR 11 billion. It is natural that, as GDP grows, the state budget will also grow. There's nothing I can say.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U124	Thank you, manager. Dear Minister, You said in your report that we have plenty of reserves. I absolutely do not agree with your argument that in good times there is no need to collect reserves, because the reserve is a cost. Reserve is insurance for future risks and insurance is related to costs. If we look at the country's reserves for next year, which is the liquidity reserve and the stabilisation reserve together, we will see that their balance decreases to a lesser extent than the money of the unemployment fund and the sickness fund that has been deposited in the liquidity reserve alone. If, now, during the economic downturn, there is a situation in which the money deposited in the liquidity reserve is to be recovered from there, this money will only be sufficient to satisfy the claims of the unemployment fund, if that is the case. Why do you think that our future risks relate only to the labour market sector?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U125	Aivar Sõerd.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U126	Thank you. I do not think that our risks relate solely to the labour market sector. The optimal size of the reserves depends on risks, the likelihood of a crisis occurring, the depth of the crisis, as well as the interest environment. As I said earlier, a group of specialists from the Ministry of Finance and Eesti Pank have calculated the volume of necessary reserves. We must take into account that the interest environment is different now than before. Keeping reserves is a cost. This means that we have to look very responsibly in the mirror here. I think it is the ratio between reserves and loans, i.e. the net asset position that matters. We pay back more loans, that's all that matters.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U127	Martin Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U128	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. When you said here in your introductory presentation that this budget is the face of the government in power, I completely agree with you. It is clearly left-wing face: high taxes, a lot of spending. That's it. But I have a question. You said you wanted to cut the excise duty. Kadri Simson and Jüri Ratas said that too. In the last weeks and months, they've been saying that they'd like to lower excise too. If everyone wants to lower their excise duty, were they the Socots who didn't want to lower, and do they have such a great influence in the government? Or who was the behind of cutting excise duties anyway? And I didn't understand the side of the math. Lowering excise duties would allegedly have caused a 35-million-dollar payout. However, a study by KPMG, a consultancy firm, says that a reduction in excise duties would result in an additional budget of 100 million. Was the EUR 35 million that I believe to be the wrong calculation? Was it still left because they wanted to put 25 million into roofing money?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U129	Thank you. The government acts on the basis of consensus. Yeah, we had different estimates of excise duty reductions on the table. So there was a question of whether to do this in a smaller part, and if we want to put a limit on border trade at 100%, it will never be possible to do so, but reduce it by about 80%, how much it would cost. It is estimated that this would have cost EUR 30 million. Now, these other calculations, which we were talking about, are also the KPMG calculation, which is based on the fact that the retail trade significantly reduces its profit margin and then so-called trade will return from Latvia to Estonia. However, this is a prerequisite that cannot be certain. And on this basis, it is certainly not possible to take into account some hundreds of millions of pluses in the budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U130	Kristen Michal.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U131	Thank you, good manager. Honourable Minister of Finance! Now that I'm putting it together, it's actually the last budget of the outgoing government. I hope not the last one for you, but who knows? How would you appreciate the policy of this government, given that the government started off on the wrong foot, telling everyone they're going to break the stasis? However, it is still the case if economic growth is the same as this year. I am on the road to increased excise duty, tightening the labour market and additional spending, and next year growth will even fall. At the same time, the consumer price index has increased significantly: in 2016 it was 0.2, in 2017 it was 3.4. At the same time, the government's spending has been made to cover teachers, working pensioners, etc. What is your legacy, and how would you assess the budgetary policy of this government?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U132	Thank you. I think that this direction of reducing labour costs in this target group, where labour taxes were high, was a very bold step. To say that the government has done nothing to revive the economy can't. There has certainly been a general policy here in this sense. Yes, I agree that everything in excise policy did not go as expected. There is no point in hiding the majority in this Chamber, after all, here for quite a long time, where the current troubled border trade began. It started under the leadership of the Reform Party: while in the coalition with the Social Democrats, he raised excise duty in violation of the previously agreed ladder. Then it all actually started. The rest has already been fine-tuning.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U133	Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U134	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, it's a bit impudent if you point your finger at others and don't speak honestly. In 2016, excise duties were higher than today, and border trade was still multiplied as a result of your government's decision. But the questioner asked about your economic policy. I'm going to question that because you couldn't answer. What is your economic policy? You came to the authorities by saying that you were accelerating economic growth, you were becoming slowing economic growth, or more precisely the same number as this year, which was in 2016 and slower in the future. You also received higher inflation: an increase from 0.1% to 4%. Now tell me, did the Prime Minister and Sven Sester lie to us, and now you're gonna make up for those mistakes, or are you gonna lie too?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U135	Thank you. I wouldn't talk so harshly about lying. It is very strange to hear, as Estonia would control world market prices, that when energy prices rise in the economy, this is the problem of the Estonian government. It's really weird to hear, but what do you do when things are understood like that? Economic growth in Estonia is higher than in other countries of the European Union; here we have nothing to be ashamed of. I'm sure no one's lied about it. Everyone always wants the best for Estonia, and today I dare say that Estonia is moving in the right direction. Everything's fine.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U136	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U137	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. The Prime Minister has said, when he talks about state budget investments, that large financial allocations are accompanied by many small local investments. At the same time, we can see from the budget that many of the major investments highlighted in the country's budgetary strategy in 2017 are not found in this budget. Whether it is 28 million for the development of coastal areas, millions of them for maritime, fisheries are not visible here. Indeed, there are many small investments, which are said to be a surprise to local people. My question to you, Minister, is: how do these small investments guarantee harmonious regional development? And can you put your hand to your heart and say that there is no politically selfish point behind them?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U138	Thank you. I think that in a situation where many politicians talk about the first Estonia and the second Estonia, the golden circle and the backward Estonia, investments in counties, smaller rural areas cannot be derogatory in any way, as if it were something strange. I would rather say that it is good for ministers and members of the Riigikogu to go around Estonia, to look at local problems and concerns. Indeed, looking at these investments, it may look like they have a political taste, but let's be honest, I have an eight-year parliamentary experience of my own, making a budget every year, the budget has a coalition taste.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U139	Please, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U140	Thank you. Good minister! Shortly after the current government took office, the Labour Inspectorate handed over its recommendations to the government. And the first of these recommendations says that the role of the state is to motivate people to work even at a higher age and to enjoy work, because it is the best social protection. When the Reform Party raised the problem of higher taxation of working pensioners at a time when the government was pushing through tax losses and called for a change in this plan, government representatives initially gave the impression that there was a plan to round up this scheme for squeezing pensioners. Now it's clear nothing was done. Did any of the members of the government raise the issue of the taxation of pensioners working in preparation for this budget? And if he did, why didn't you change the current unfair system?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U141	Thank you. I guess this discussion of how much money you have to help a person or give him a tax credit is a little bit wider. The reform of tax-free income was based on helping those with low incomes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U142	Peep Understood.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U143	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. The government's been banging every cannon that it's going to be good for the new year for the lives of the local governments. Happiness comes to the yard. I look at these numbers and I don't understand, though I should. Compared to the previous year, 2018 local governments' revenues are forecast to increase by 101 million next year, but expenditure is expected to increase by 155 million, minus 54 million. Does the life of the local governments get better?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U144	Yeah, I hope it gets better. Income tax will be paid to local governments by 1182 million euros next year, i.e. 7.8% more. Looking at these numbers, there is reason to believe that they will certainly have opportunities to do more good things that are needed on the ground.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U145	Please, Yoko Alender!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U146	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress, Minister! I'm asking about teachers' salaries. The average salary is still what gives an overview of how our teachers are valued. How's that raise? How much is the average wage of teachers rising? And maybe you don't have to answer a lot about how much the contribution to research development increases in percentage terms compared to last year. And what are the backgrounds of these political decisions?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U147	Thank you. Teachers' payroll will grow by 4.3%. I do not have precise average figures ahead, but in addition to raising teachers' salaries, the coalition provided an additional EUR 9.7 million. As the state also provides additional resources to differentiate teachers' salaries, the average wage of teachers will rise to EUR 1 500. When we are talking about research and development, it is based on the principle that the amount allocated to it does not fall below 0.81% of GDP. And as a result of GDP and growth in our economy, expenditure on research and development has also increased considerably.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U148	Meelis Mälberg.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U149	Thank you, President of the sitting. Good minister! To date, there are not many things left for which your home party has stood and even fought for in previous governments and for which it is still standing. At least in words, the Fatherland has so far supported the eastern border in modern ways and quickly constructed. The economy is doing very well now, and that would certainly be possible. Who or what is preventing a modern and very good level of eastern border from quickly being built?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U150	Thank you. I believe that there are very few here who say that the eastern border is not important to us. Surely this is also a priority for the coalition. But you are all well aware that one of the concerns is that the previous coalition miscalculated the costs involved. There was talk of hundreds of millions of smaller sums of money needed to build the border. The real cost of border construction has now been revealed, and with this knowledge today's coalition has moved forward. In the coming years, investment will be there, and when the country's budgetary strategy is discussed next year, it will also have to be looked at over the next few years.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U151	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U152	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The good state of Estonian R &amp; D is the result of decisions made in previous years. Today's question is to invest in ensuring that our research, development and innovation are sustainable. How does the current government intend to ensure this if the doctoral student scholarship is EUR 660, which does not allow the focus to be placed on scientific research and the protection of the doctorate? Where is this solution to the sustainability of science that you have proposed?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U153	Thank you for your question. The R &amp; D expenditure planned for the whole public sector, i.e. the public and higher education systems, will be EUR 219.8 million next year. Greater input from the private sector is certainly needed to increase research funding. The Ministry of Education's R &amp; D programme will be worth €170.9 million next year, including higher education expenditure. Universities are independent in their budgets and the question is the priorities who invest where and how much. We know that everyone always has little money, but the current coalition has certainly attached great importance to the development and investment of science in information technology.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U154	Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U155	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I have a question about teachers' pay. Speaking of teachers' salaries, you said you would reach 1500 euros, which is 109% compared to the average wage in the country. But you had to reach 120%. Was it a political choice, or were you short of money?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U156	Thank you. Certainly, the political choice is that teachers' salaries are rising and rising faster than the average wage. That's a priority. I dare say that this has also been a priority for previous coalitions, so there is nothing exceptional about it. But the current coalition has been generous in this regard rather than cheap.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U157	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U158	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! You argued that the tax reform was designed to help people with lower incomes. A strange situation has arisen where a working pensioner pays more taxes than a member of the national government. Do you feel well when you look at your bank account and think about a working pensioner who pays more taxes than you do? And I think you gave the fine-tuning definition a whole new content when you claimed that the government had been fine-tuning in terms of excise duties. The 70% increase in excise duty on beer, which has been one of the engines that set off the frontier rally, is a fact. It saddens me that you said that a possible excise hole would have been about 35 million. If we put the rooftop money aside there, we actually understand that this government has not had any statesmanship. After all, experts say that it is possible to earn revenue for the state by lowering excise duty and to give twice as much money to the municipalities later. Where has the government lost its statesmanship?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U159	Thank you. On the subject of excise duties, there's one thing I don't understand. For the last five years, the average amount of excise duty on alcohol has been around EUR 235 million, currently EUR 235 million. In the past, we had much lower excise duties and there were also Finnish tourists who bought them here. Where are you gonna find that $100 million you're all so generously sharing? You are talking about various hypothetical estimates based on the assumption that a cartel agreement will be made and all retail shops will jointly lower retail prices and this will bring happiness to our yard. But it's not that simple. The former finance ministers also know that studies based on hypothetical foundations or inputs cannot build up the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U160	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U161	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise has said that members of the Riigikogu have a constitutional right to make important decisions for the state. Unfortunately, the form of the state budget does not allow this in any way. I will give you an example from page 99 of the explanatory memorandum, which shows the dividends that form part of the financial revenues of the Ministry of the Environment. RMK and the Environmental Research Centre have put a total amount of almost EUR 42 million here, but it is not stated what more dividends will be taken from the institution and which is less than the institution. And how can members of the Riigikogu control the law that they have passed that RMK's income is paid for the transfer of land with conservation restrictions? Why are Riigikogu members unable to work with this document in substance?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U162	Thank you. Having eight years of experience in the work of the Riigikogu, I say that this debate and debate are involved in the budgetary procedure every time. Some feel that the budget could be much more detailed, or much thicker. Others feel that nothing would be found there, so that the budget should be much thinner and more concise. Ultimately, there is a compromise before you today in some respects. The explanatory memorandum to the draft proposal tries to rewrite the budget lines as well as possible. Yes, we are definitely moving in the direction of reducing accounting-technical information in the budget law. These codes and numbers in the first columns of the tables really confuse the members of the Riigikogu and do not help them to understand everything better. We're going in the direction of having an activity-based breakdown that, by looking at some activity, you'll find out if this action fits and what the costs are. The criticism has certainly been taken very seriously in the past and will also be taken this time. We are moving towards making the budget as understandable as possible to a member of the Riigikogu. But once again, every time after the elections, there are new Members here who perhaps think that the budget could actually be just as it was before it was changed at the request of the previous Member.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U163	Please, Maris Lauri!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U164	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. The Minister of Finance is also responsible for ensuring that fiscal policy is compatible with the cyclical nature of the economy. If the budget is pro-cyclical, it will amplify the cycle: the growing economy will overheat, the cooling economy will freeze. Now, under your leadership, we have a new budget. And the background documents show that last year, when you allegedly brought the economy out of stagnation, economic policy and fiscal policy were pro-cyclical, and this is also pro-cyclical next year, but this time the economy is cooling down. There is a cooling of the already cooling economy. Do you realise that your budget is inadequate in economic policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U165	Thank you. I don't think so. After all, this is the idea of a structural balance rule. If this is followed, the country cannot overheat the economy during the economic growth period and if the economy is not doing very well, it will have the opportunity to put more resources there. We are now close to a structural balance, which essentially means that we do not overheat or cool the economy.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U166	Mati Raidma.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U167	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Let's go back to the eastern border for a second. I will look at the explanatory memorandum to the draft law and see that the investment to the border will fall by 31% next year. If I look for the next few years, in the long run, these numbers will decrease the same way. Can the Minister of Finance explain why this shrinking sequence of numbers is your priority? Who is in the interest of reducing investment in the eastern border?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U168	Thank you. I can say for sure that the eastern border is under construction. Its completion is not behind the money, the design requires preparation and time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U169	Andres Herkel, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U170	Thank you. Dear Minister, There was no answer to the previous question, and we do not know why this is not reflected in the state budget. Nor did I receive an answer to my previous question of how, in one area, this additional forecast came about, which not only saved you from the 50 million deficit, but also left you with the possibility to pay the roof money. I would just like to raise the question that the budget currently provides for 63 million for investment. The eastern border and Rail Baltic are coming, in a few years this amount will probably increase exponentially. In such situations, how do you avoid overheating of the economy and the increase in the price of the same objects in view of the shortage and probably the rise in construction prices? There is still such a long view of the amount of Rail Baltic, but in the case of the eastern border, this is not what the budget really sees.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U171	Thank you. The budget has these money numbers in the line of border construction. As I said, this will also require a proper project, which will take time to complete. There is a long view of the country's budgetary strategy. Rail Baltic investments are well in the budget, so there is no problem with that.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U172	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You have said publicly and it is also stated in the budget explanatory memorandum at least as an amount that the state will participate in the investments of Eesti Energia next year. You have further explained that the state's participation in Eesti Energia's investments goes to the development of networks, renewable energy projects and the construction of a new oil plant. But Eesti Energia has a permanent cash flow of its own. Eesti Energia acquires money for investment with bonds, interest is low, bonds are even quoted. Why must the state participate, as you have said, in Eesti Energia projects: developing networks, renewable energy projects and starting a new oil plant?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U173	Aivar Sõerd.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U174	Thank you. This is co-financing of potential investment projects of Eesti Energia. The same problem or concern was the year 2012 when 150 million went to co-finance the investment projects of Eesti Energia. From a budgetary point of view, this is not a cost, it is a financing transaction. And the long-term objective of this financing operation is to receive dividends, otherwise it could not be recognised as a financing transaction. Whether these projects will materialise is early to say today. But this is an opportunity in the budget. The end of 2019 is far away, but we will see such opportunities in advance, just in case.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U175	Kristen Michal.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U176	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! Since time is limited, I will correct some of the facts of your previous answer. In 2016, when the government swapped, excise duties were passed over: the budget of the law was 248 million, came 251. The following year, 276 million were expected in the budget, 222 came. And here's a year where we've been hoping for more than 300 million alcohol excises, much less. So the facts should be known and precise when presenting them. The same is true of price increases. Price increases are a gift from this government to people. And now my question. Before you answered the question about the taxation of working pensioners that you are helping those who need help. Do you think a working pensioner who wants to be active in society and contribute to the pensions of others needs the state's 'aid' as a higher taxation, or should he still receive what he deserves fairly rather than be a guarantor of the government's additional costs?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U177	Thank you. I will first respond to the complaints about excise duties. You said there were 248 million in one year, 222 in the next year. I was talking about the coalition led by the Reform Party setting up today's troubled border trade. That's really a problem. It is the collection of heavy alcohol excise duty that is the main cause of concern. Yeah, you could say that there are more beer coffees, but if we look at where there is the biggest loss of excise duty, it's about strong alcohol. Once again, a working pensioner actually contributes to our Estonia's future, contributes to the future of his children and grandchildren. It is very welcome that they are active. In their work, they receive a 20% tax fee, not more. It certainly cannot be said that if the pensioner receives 80% of what he earns, that is something very bad. I think it's really nice that they work and get paid.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U178	Thank you. Mr. Minister, it's very ugly to hear you spanking Sven Sester for his excise policy. But the fact is, during your government, he almost doubled his excise duty on beer and his wine more than double it. This is precisely the result of the multiplication of border trade. If you really don't have the numbers, maybe you'll change jobs. This budget has now been presented in two speeches. I have always wanted to hear this government say something proudly about structural reforms, about spending something better. Please try! I see one structural reform: the preference for science and education has been abandoned and a single strength structure has been preferred. For example, the difference in wage increases is triple in favour of the strength structure. You are very proud and you speak it everywhere, but now name a few more structural reforms where something is done instead of something and something is preferred to another and spending becomes more effective in the interests of society!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U179	Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U180	Thank you. Again, I have repeatedly said that it doesn't matter what I'm talking about, in the end I'm talking about excise duties. Similarly, every question ends up with excise duties. Yes, I have said this and I will continue to say this: the sharp rise in excise duties made by this coalition was not right. I also say that the previous coalition was the one who laid the foundations for problematic border trade. In 2016, the excise duty of EUR 8 million was already in Latvia. Yeah, from now on, that's going to increase. It's growing. Once the border trade is in motion and people start going there, they'll find new opportunities. At the same time, we know that Estonia is doing better than our neighbours. Therefore, prices are also cheaper there. That's how we get our tax hole. It's a problem and a place of concern. But you also asked about structural reforms. I think that the coalition's very clear direction to improve family policy and the state's defence capabilities, as well as the fact that we actually allow companies a tax truce, is a very clear message that entrepreneurs are welcome in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U181	The next question will be asked by Raivo Põldaru, a member of the coalition. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U182	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! The government continues to stimulate the economy through large-scale investment projects, which have already been discussed several times today. Investment will certainly boost the construction sector and related activities, but their contribution to the growth of the potential of the Estonian economy is questionable. At the same time, R &amp; D expenditure remains below the EU average. Estonia's "Estonia 2020" competitiveness plan sets the goal of allocating 3% of GDP to R &amp; D. How do you approach 2020 with this percentage in mind? Is that what we're going to do or what we're not going to do? Is that just a dream?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U183	Thank you. It is quite right that the aim is to increase the share of R &amp; D expenditure. But there's a problem here. The concern is that the state is contributing to this, but this contribution has not been such as to motivate the business sector to contribute to this. There is no such cooperation. The coalition has been looking for ways to link investment in research development to growth, or GDP growth, so that it can benefit everyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U184	Marko Mihkelson.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U185	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! It is known that the survival of Estonian residents depends very much on how successful Estonian entrepreneurs are in international competition and, more generally, how successful Estonia is in international competition. According to the World Economic Forum competition index published today, Estonia has fallen by two seats. For example, even Katar, in international isolation, has passed us by. And how many figures are we in the world if not the last place, then pretty far behind. I am thinking of the various components of the labour market. The budget currently under way does not reflect the ambition that we want to take precedence in international competition. Good Minister, tell me why this ambition is lacking in the current government!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U186	Thank you. This ambition is certainly not lacking. I think that the factors that hinder our growth are certainly labour shortages, and also our small size, our great dependence on the external environment, how things are going elsewhere. This two points of decline is certainly sad, but actually, in the big picture, it shows that we are stable in our place.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U187	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U188	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Next year will be the penultimate year of the current multiannual financial framework of the European Union. It is known that funding will decrease in the next period, and in the future the amount of structural resources allocated to us will be 2/3 of the current volume. In addition, the pressure on the increase in self-financing is increasing. Although the debates on the budget are still ongoing in Brussels and the changes seem distant as tomorrow, experts looking further in Estonia have already talked about changing the volume of some activities and services, referring to the need to make the country more efficient. This requires an exit strategy. Minister, how will these processes be reflected in next year's budget? I am thinking, then, of an exit strategy that means a change in the volume of operations.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U189	Thank you. As far as the exit strategy is concerned, we know that these subsidies are not permanent. It can't be someone who's been supporting us all the time. We will certainly say a great thank you to those who support us, but count on it for an infinitely long time and cannot be regarded as Estonian Nokia. Can't say we'll be okay if someone backs us up. This is not sustainable in the long term. If we look at the new budgetary period for the European Union, we will see that the share of the Cohesion Fund allocated to us is really decreasing. In the meantime, there were fears that this decrease could be up to 40%, now it is good news that it is up to 24%. However, we are not satisfied with this. We are currently negotiating that this decline will be smaller. Indeed, if we achieve the next level by, for example, 1% above 75% of the EU average, our subsidies will fall drastically. At the same time, payments to farmers as a whole are increasing. And when we talk about central fund investments, whether they concern Rail Baltic or our energy routes, their volume is likely to increase. Broadly speaking, the overall amount available for the next budgetary period may remain even as high as it is in the current budgetary period. But we are based on the assumption that, if we now get EUR 3,5 for each euro that has been paid up, then definitely at least EUR 3 in the next period.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U190	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U191	Thank you. Good minister! One of the problems with this budget or, in fact, the whole of the government's activities is that there is no reform that would prepare us for the future of the future, preparing us for demographic decline and ageing, global energy and environmental tensions. One example of the fact that this future is already here is a lack of hands. There are probably no other sectors in Estonia where there would be no need for screaming hands. And that, in turn, means that those people who are ready to continue working even when they reach retirement age must be kept. We've got to hold them! But what does your government do? He's squeezing these seniors. I come back to my previous question, which you did not answer. While the Central Party government made it clear at the time of the ban on tax losses that it would be prepared to change the tax system that treats pensioners unfairly, you have, to date, virtually withdrawn from it. In preparing this budget, did any government raise the issue of unfair taxation for pensioners? If he did, why haven't you changed it?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U192	Thank you. I'll put it this way, it wasn't on the table. The problem of working is acute, and I think that my concern is justified. Why, after all, have many businesses, knowing that they cannot rely on cheap hands infinity, not invested enough in technology to increase added value? This is one of the concerns and the unanswered question is why, in the past, no stronger action was taken in this direction to motivate companies to invest. Yeah, that's really a problem. For five to six years, the essence of the economy was stagnating, the entrepreneurs had no confidence in the future and they did not dare to invest. Now their confidence has increased and their investments have also increased. I very much hope that investment in information technology will also increase. On the one hand, if there is no working hand, they are forced to invest in technology in order to reduce dependence on working hands, which is inevitable. On the other hand, it can be said again that a conservative immigration policy is also a problem. However, we are a nation state, we must not make the mistakes that other countries have made, we must certainly bear in mind the longer view. Opinions in this area are different, but I believe that some reasonable compromise is quite possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U193	Peep Understood.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U194	Thank you. Good minister! I didn't get an answer to my first question. However, in your honour, it must be said that, with your largely unprofessional answers, you are also different from the previous Minister of Finance in that your answers are much shorter. But I asked very clearly whether the life of the municipalities would be better if the difference between their income and expenditures would deteriorate by 54 million compared to this year. The deterioration of the balance sheet could have been greatly mitigated if the so-called 'roof money' had been added to the municipal income base. Why does the government lie about getting better in the municipalities next year? And why didn't they give roofing money to the local government's revenue base?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U195	Thank you. I thought I made it very clear that the income base of local governments was growing. I am certainly not the one telling them what to do with their money, where to invest it. It's up to them. And that's normal. It would be very strange if I told them where they had to invest or where they could invest. I don't know what their needs are. I am not familiar enough with this and it would certainly be the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U196	Please, Yoko Alender!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U197	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress, Minister! I would like to ask about the 'Good Public Space' programme initiated by the previous government under 'Estonian Republic 100'. Is the public space of the county centres of Estonian cities, especially smaller towns, no longer a priority for this government? In spite of the commitment of the Minister for Public Administration and the Minister for Culture to address this issue in the budget negotiations, why does the budget not find a plan to make public space, or living environment, more humane, such as the construction and reconstruction of central squares? It has not received any funding.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U198	Thank you. I can't answer in detail how much money there is. What I know is that everywhere I've been this year, central squares are being built. This is, of course, positive. However, it certainly does not make sense to rebuild these central squares every year. Once built, it makes sense that it still lasts for a few years. But this issue is very important to local authorities, and I support it. However, if this is a priority for municipalities, they will certainly find a way to do so with a higher income base. And the country has been and will continue to be.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U199	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U200	Thank you. Violence against women is a problem that has not disappeared and cannot be closed to. What is the reason why the government has come to realize that the support phone for women who have experienced violence, which has been working perfectly for ten years, no longer needs the support of the state? Do you think we're going to erase the budget line, and the problem is gone? At the same time, there has been almost a double increase in the funding of advice and telephone lines for victims of trafficking in human beings. Has human trafficking in Estonia increased to the extent that it already overshadows violence against women?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U201	Thank you. I certainly do not agree that combating violence against women is not a priority. I'm sure it is! And I think there will be more money for that from now on. The funding of women's support centres will increase to EUR 1 million next year. If the year was EUR 0.77 million, it will receive some EUR 230000. But this is about curating the Ministry of Social Affairs, and I think they're definitely better informed about it than I am. At the same time, it is clear that there are many good ideas and desires where money is needed, but there are limits somewhere. That is what we must take into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U202	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U203	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Unfortunately, I have to say that I am not happy with your answer to my previous question and I will ask you again. If the doctoral student grant is still EUR 660 per month, which levers does the government intend to support the sustainability of R &amp; D, innovation? Don't tell me we have that 19 million extra. Instead, it is basic funding, including the Structural Funds' money of 5.6 million. What are the levers to ensure the sustainability and follow-up of our R &amp; D in this area?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U204	Thank you. I still have to repeat and confirm myself partly here: R &amp; D funding will increase next year. How this money is used is up to these authorities. Operating grants for higher education institutions will amount to EUR 163.4 million next year. The Salary Fund grows by 4.5 million euros and has around 14.2 million euros for doctoral student grants. These are the numbers that I can say from here, and I very much hope that the increased amounts will help them.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U205	Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U206	Thank you, President-in-Office. Mr President, thank you very much. I have a question about culture. Why do you plan to use the money planned for the city hall last year? Last year, it wasn't done. Do you go on with the city hall and if you go, how?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U207	Thank you. Next year's budget doesn't include the city hall. In the country's budget strategy, it will be divided over the next few years. But the next coalition can decide what his priorities are. But, yeah, next year's budget doesn't include an investment in the city hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U208	Valdo Randpere.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U209	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, There's been a lot of numbers going through here about the eastern border. It's pretty messed up. Once you say the same thing, and when asked again, you say the other way around. Now, at last, say your man's word, how much has this construction cost so far, and how much will it cost before it's finished? Two numbers, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U210	In the budgets for the next few years, let's say this, it will amount to EUR 79,9 million. As of today, the construction of the eastern border has unfortunately been delayed for three years. The main reason for the delay is the more difficult construction conditions than expected, which were not clear until after the test sections were completed. Initially, if these test sections had not yet been carried out, it was not possible to predict more precisely the time of completion.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U211	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U212	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! You didn't answer my question before, how do you feel when you see on payday that you have paid less taxes than a working pensioner? It would be fair to answer if you have any feelings at all. And you also failed to answer Mr Jürgen Ligi's question about structural reforms. You have pointed out that perhaps in the future farmers will receive more money, although you should probably be aware that support for rural areas may be reduced when we are talking about the second pillar. Indeed, the first pillar may increase slightly. But my question is this: what structural reform is meant by the allocation of EUR 2 million for the second year in a row to a pig farm run by the Prime Minister's party partners? All other bovine animals, sheep and other puddles shall be excluded from the aid once again. Is this fair and transparent government of the state?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U213	Thank you. The subject of this tax was whether I had the pleasure of looking in the mirror or the sadness of I would bounce back. As a member of the Riigikogu, I understand you have no such concern when you ask me. You feel like you're getting a higher salary than a working pensioner. But when we are talking about structural reforms, in agriculture, there is now a trend towards a mild Estonia. This has been discussed several times in various working groups and has been endorsed in principle. This is the right direction for Estonia to move to. Whether it is right or wrong for two million pigs to be raised in that I would trust the Minister for Rural Affairs. You have experience in this area, and you are more familiar with it. I don't know what else to say right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U214	Arto Aas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U215	Thank you. Good minister! I understand you want to paint such an optimistic picture here, but, of course, the situation isn't so pretty. In the Competitiveness Scoreboard prepared by the World Economic Forum, we have fallen. Our tax burden will increase slightly next year. Businesses' assessment of the economic policy of this government is largely very negative. I believe you yourself agree. I am saddened by the fact that you have allowed the central party's style of Tallinn's governance to come to state government. These same roofies are certainly not talking about the development of political and budgetary culture at the level of the government, even at a savagely large amount, being scattered on the basis of arbitrary decisions. We have a lot of regional programmes in the country where this money should have been channelled, but it was not done, but a much darker way was chosen. And in fact, municipal budgets are growing less than central government budgets. Why have you allowed such a style to take over the government?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U216	Thank you. I dare say otherwise: Estonia is moving in the right direction. This was confirmed by the rating agency Fitch, who has been raising Estonia's rating for the second year in a row, in particular by emphasising Estonia's good finances, economic policy frameworks. You're taking an example here from a table where we've fallen two places, but that's definitely not the reason to say that everything is bad.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U217	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U218	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! When you took office, probably with the aim of being better than the previous finance ministers. The area of your response today carries the message that I cannot be good because the previous ministers have not been good. Please think seriously about whether your goals are right. My specific question is that if you look at the public investment plans for the next four years, you will be particularly aware of the problem that both Eesti Pank and a number of entrepreneurs have paid attention to. We are already seeing the first signs of overheating in the economy, as we have a great shortage of hands. What are the specific government measures to prevent overheating?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U219	Thank you. The lack of work force is certainly not conducive to overheating of the economy, but rather hinders it. Right now, yes, there's been a threat in the construction sector. One reason has been that we are skipping last year for five or six years, the construction sector has either been stagnating or has fallen, and now it is going back to what was not done at some point. When compared to the pre-crisis period, it is clear that it is certainly not a boom. Fortunately, people behave conservatively, and the risk is much lower than it was at that time. So you can't talk about a boom or an economic crisis here. As far as the first half of the question is concerned, I suppose every finance minister sees things in his own way. Others have had their own ideas, and I have mine. I am pleased that when I became Minister of Finance, the coalition agreement had a desire to make a budget deficit. Now the budget is balanced and nominally also in surplus. The current government is not taking advantage of the opportunities it would have to increase its costs, but is acting conservatively. The budget is in structural balance and in nominal surplus. If the nominal surplus in 2018 is around EUR 170 million, then next year EUR 130 million.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U220	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I have a question that will continue the question of Aivar Sõerdi on the dividends of state-owned companies. You said that if Eesti Energia did not receive the additional share capital provided for in the budget, it would not be possible to take dividends from it. I think this is where you actually said the truth. If you're saying that this money is going to cover any possible investments, you're probably gonna blow up this hall. As a former member of the Estonian Energy Council, I think that about a year before plans are known very accurately. The budget for next year is definitely being set up in Eesti Energia and it is known quite precisely what investments will be made. So there will probably be no surprises in this regard by the end of 2019. If so, it is your intention in the future to pump significantly higher amounts out of state-owned companies.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U221	Kalle Palling.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U222	Thank you. If I'm quite honest with you, this is the scheme I first heard of from a reform party. I didn't realize before that there was such a scheme. It had previously been used during the rule of the Reform Party. I didn't have that idea when I got this budget here. I'm glad my eyes are open too, how you can get more dividends out. But, as I said, this is a potential investment. We also know that Eesti Energia is planning to take one of its companies, Enefit Green, to the stock market. That's what's waiting for the Competition Authority's permission. If it went to the stock market, it would give development a positive direction, because then perhaps there would be no need to channel more money into investment projects and liquidity would improve. But once again, these investments may not come. We are talking here about the construction of a new oil plant, just these co-financing opportunities are provided for in the budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U223	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U224	Good minister! Your answer to my previous question did not satisfy me and gave the impression that you have obviously not read the budget explanatory statement very thoroughly. I will give you a reference: page 12 is written in the explanatory memorandum that budgetary policy will be pro-cyclical next year. But I will now ask a question that pushes my colleague Külliki from the Hatter's question. You argued that a lack of work was not the reason for the economic heat. But the lack of working hands shows that the economy is heating up, which is the most basic example of the economic cycle. So the economy is heating up. Do you have, like, an idea or an understanding of how to make the government's fiscal policy adequate?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U225	Thank you. I think that fiscal policy is adequate if the economy is not overheated or cooled during the normal economic growth phase. If we cut costs in the phase of economic stagnation or recession, this could be a problem. Some have argued that if these options existed, if construction prices were cheap and our hands went to Finland, the state could have contributed more to the economy.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U226	Please, Vilja Thomas!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U227	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The Prime Minister has said that we will also contribute to the development of local life if we increase public transport subsidies by EUR 10 million next year and if this amount reaches EUR 101 million ultimately. Don't you think it's an unanalysed drop of money? In addition to everything else, this has a significant impact on free competition. I'll only bring you one fact. While in 2015 21.9% of employees used public transport, according to the budget explanatory memorandum, this percentage has reached 20 today. So, in fact, adding money has in no way increased the proportion of people who use free public transport to work.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U228	Thank you. It's not like that with public transport, it's like that. On the one hand, it's really nice when people use it a lot, on the other hand, I'm not really a fan of the fact that it's all free. As I said in my speech, someone will pay for it in any case, and these are taxpayers. But that is the question of priorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U229	Javier's outfit.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U230	Thank you. Good waitress! During this period, the government of Jüri Ratas has submitted three national budgets and alcohol excise duties have been raised twice as many times as possible, which is probably a world record of its kind. I find it absolutely ridiculous, after the three budgets have already been presented themselves, to blame the predecessors, who at the time had twice the lower rates of excise duty and received not only more money than their own budgets, but also more money than this year's budgets. In the case of twice the rate of excise duty on beer, the budget receipts were higher than that. But even if you go along with the thought play and the blaming that already then a mistake was made when your predecessor, Sven Sester, was Minister of Finance, then who's so stupid that he'll double the excise duty? That's what I don't understand. In fact, they saw that the mistake was made. But here's my question. Is there any chance you're admitting your obvious mistake? I don't think there's a single person today who would think it wasn't a mistake, except for Jevgeni Ossinovski, of course. Is there any hope that you will admit your mistake, or do we have to wait for the elections and the next government to finally eliminate this mistake?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U231	Thank you. I don't know, I think I've said dozens of times that it was a mistake to go over the border by lifting it. I didn't say it was just the Reform Party. I have said that the Reform Party government has laid the foundations for problematic border trade. I don't think it's the right thing to see another coalition put on the fire. That is what I have said repeatedly and will continue to say. There's nothing new here, it's kind of boring and old talk. It is also well known that the current coalition decided to increase alcohol excise duty this year by half as much as planned. And we also agreed in the coalition that any further increases in excise duty will be avoided. It has a negative impact on the budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U232	Mati Raidma.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U233	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Your formula for linking declining budget figures with increasing priority and interest in the matter did not come out of the previous answer. Then let me give you another example: the Kase Street complex of the National Defence Academy. The investment in building it will fall by 21% next year. You'd think the house would all of a sudden be ready and the money would be transferred to Narva College at this academy, but no. The investment of 0.6 million of Kase Street complex will be ticking throughout this table for the following years. It was said that the budget is a coalition face, a relatively logical observation by you. However, I have this question: do you agree with the political decision taken in the form of this coalition to include the internal security education system in a balanced way?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U234	Thank you. I am not as familiar with these details as I am with the questioner. I know that internal security is a very strong government priority right now. Compared to previous years, much more resources have been devoted to the sector. The same is true of national defence. Whether this particular investment is 0.6 million or 0.5 or 0.3 in really I ask you to go to a better specialist. I'm sure the minister can give you more information.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U235	Marko Mihkelson.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U236	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. In answering my previous question, you said that you do not see the problem of Estonia's international competitiveness falling. I cannot agree with you in any way, and I am also seriously concerned that the government that is about to leave has not taken any visible steps to protect the interests of the Estonian state in this international money laundering scandal that we have been dragged into. Foreign investors will certainly take a very critical look at this. But I'm giving you a chance right now. Surely we are being followed by several representatives of foreign investors, hoping to hear something that would make them believe that Estonia is also a worthy place to invest its money in the context of this draft budget. Give an example of the three most important points in this budget plan that encourage foreign investment in Estonia!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U237	Thank you. I think that it is in any case beneficial for competitiveness that we have reduced the costs of middle and low wage earners. This is certainly a very big step that has not been managed so far because it has been considered too costly. And really, it's going to cost about 150 million euros. In order to attract investments into Estonia, support measures for a large investor will continue to be implemented. Electricity excise duties have already been reduced for electro-intensive companies, and this is the same way of reducing gas excise duty. This bill is in this hall. Often, even small steps are needed to give confidence. The coalition has also said, and I have said on several occasions, that the most important thing for businesses is tax peace. This confidence has been given by the coalition in the country's budget strategy: no new tax increases have been foreseen. There are no new taxes in the 2019 budget, no new tax increases. These are very clear messages. As far as Danske's money laundering case is concerned, yes, it is unfortunate. At the same time, it is positive that the Estonian Financial Supervision Authority closed down this suspicious business and closed down already in 2014. The Commission's assessment of the compatibility of the aid with the internal market is based on the following considerations: This suspicious business is no longer taking place in the Estonian branch of Danske Bank. The Estonian Financial Supervision Authority completed similar suspicious schemes in Versobank at the beginning of this year. The license was withdrawn from Versobank. It can be said that these are the most powerful steps taken in the European Union that have ever been taken. We're pioneers here, we're first in that sense. Unfortunately, the problem was that the European Central Bank dealt with the withdrawal of Versobank's licence for a year. International cooperation is a concern. In fact, in order to act forcefully, there must be a prerogative. It is not possible to find the other half of certain countries if no one has been harmed. There is a new understanding that, in addition to ordinary civil turnover, i.e. ordinary, 'classical' money laundering, there is now money laundering caused by the machination of the state: the state washes completely legal money through the process, I am not saying that Estonia, too, but at all, through the financial institutions of several countries and will later be used as a crime or leverage activity. These are the directions, the lessons. I suggest everyone: let's look to the future! Estonia has done well. I believe that in years' time, the European Union will understand this. The banks of the European Union and the whole world are just starting to deal with this issue, and many do not want to admit that this is a problem. They're looking for ways to continue all this. Estonia has said very clearly that Estonia is not a place for money laundering. In this sense, I have a good feeling that we have actually taken action here and will continue to take very strong steps.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U238	Please, Laine Randjärv!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U239	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, I come in the area of education with my question. The Supreme Court has said that settling municipal schools in general education in the context of bounties with so-called box money is contrary to the Constitution. The Court also said that if the state entrusts the municipalities with the task of settling it, then the budget should also provide money for this. The Ministry of Education and Research is working on this topic halfway: it is in the air, and we in the Committee on Culture are waiting for it to be resolved. As it has begun, in theory, this money should be planned in the budget for next year. Has the Ministry of Finance dealt with this issue and, if so, what are the solutions?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U240	I am speaking for the Minister of Education, Mailis Reps, but I dare say it has certainly been dealt with. This is the competence of the Minister of Education. Unfortunately, I am not fully aware of this issue. If there's a wish, I can certainly look into it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U241	Valdo Randpere.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U242	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I asked about the eastern border earlier and asked for two numbers: how much it has cost so far and how much more it will cost. I got one number, it was wrong, you didn't get any. I have a little suggestion and one more question. It used to be the custom, including you, to keep somewhere close by an official who sent the numbers when needed, an iPad. It's not a shame to remember all the numbers. But now my second question. You are a person who has come into contact with the sea, and when this government came to power, you promised to make Estonia a maritime state again, to bring the cargo ships back under the Estonian flag. However, I cannot find a single cent from the budget that would have been earmarked for this, nor can I see any cargo ships flying the flag of Estonia at sea. What happened to the program?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U243	Thank you. As regards the eastern border, I will state so much that I said that these investments are planned to amount to 79,9 million until 2022. Until 2019, this amount will be 73.9 million. It was decided to allocate the eastern border in 2015 and now there is more money added. Since this job went on for a few years, it's $79.9 million. Expenditures so far have been around EUR 24 million. When we talk about bringing Estonian merchant ships under the flag of Estonia, it has proved more difficult than it was thought. There are several reasons for this. Yes, we can impose the most favourable conditions on Estonian seafarers and all seafarers in the world here in Estonia, but are the Estonian people willing to pay for it? That's one thing. There's been another reason. We want to establish competitive conditions, to bring certain costs to the same level as in neighbouring countries and other countries of the European Union, so that ships have no tangible advantages elsewhere. One of the treats should be the ground services offered to them. The current situation is that the draft is in the final stages. He's been approved in our house. We have specified nuances and the bill is now in the government. I very much hope that he will arrive at the Riigikogu in the coming weeks and you can take a look at it and add your good ideas. But yes, my concern has also been that the children of Estonian seafarers go to school and kindergarten in Estonia, use our infrastructure, but their fathers do not pay any taxes in Estonia, because we transfer them to other countries. Somewhere they're gonna have to pay some taxes. This cannot be a sustainable solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U244	Mr. Minister! In the city of Tartu, there is the problem of the church of Mary. I hope you know that. This church building remained at the height of the general restoration of church buildings in Estonia, and it stands now as one of the most ugly ruinous monuments to what was done or not done during the Soviet period. Members of the congregation are believed to have a perfectly legitimate expectation that the Estonian state will support their actions in restoring this church. I don't know how to find a line in this budget. But why don't you tell me where, where, under which line is the support granted by the Estonian state and how big is it next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U245	George Adams.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U246	Thank you. I'm afraid I can't answer that right now. I don't know if this church is specifically included in the budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U247	Arto Aas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U248	Thank you. I did not get an exhaustive answer to my previous question on systemic funding for local authorities, and I will return to that. Sadly, no structural reforms are taking place, the construction of the country has been paused, as do the members of the government themselves. It has come down to pouring pre-election money where somebody's been in the mood. Let me just give you an example. There was no money to support Valga's maternity department, allegedly needed EUR 100000. Now, thanks to the roofing money, the amount found for the Põlva maternity department is €200,000. There's some crazy talk going on over there that there's not enough births in the neighborhood and that both departments should actually be closed down. I don't understand what the problem is: the quality of health care or money? EUR 100000 for Valga, which is much further from Tartu, was not found, but 150,000 for the Prime Minister to be able to travel to Davos next year, this money was found. How do you explain such illogical choices to the electorate?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U249	Thank you, that's a very correct question. I think it is very important in healthcare that the services that are provided there are safe. Human health is a priority. If the hospital councils have decided that the maternity department should be closed, I am certainly not an expert who says that let them continue there, I suppose the safety of the children will be guaranteed there. I'm not taking that responsibility. That is the answer to the question of why these departments were to be closed. If someone says politically it's the wrong decision, and tries to fight to keep the department from being shut down, then there's a chance. You have the budget here in the Riigikogu, you can process it and make your proposals.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U250	Kalle Palling.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U251	Thank you. Dear Minister, I really liked your answer to Marko Mihkelson's question. And I fully agree with you that this action, which your coalition partner Jaanus Karilaid has been pursuing in this Chamber and in the Committee on Legal Affairs for the past weeks and months, has a very serious negative impact on the reputation of the Estonian state. We can work here to bring the Estonian ships under the flag of Estonia or anything, but it is impossible to compensate for the damage to the reputation that Jaanus Karilaid and very many others who have not prevented him from doing so. But would you please tell your good party partner Mart Laar that the appointment of Jaanus Kariladi as a member of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank is a very bad idea in this context?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U252	Thank you. I read the news in the paper, but I don't know how to comment on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U253	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U254	Thank you. The explanatory memorandum to the draft state budget states that it supports in-service training and retraining for adults, the preparation of employees in the areas of economic growth, the provision of refresher courses to develop key competences and increase learning readiness, the development of digital competences for adults, and further training for adults who do not speak the official language in combination with language education. In view of the shortage of labour, this is, of course, a crucial activity. Why, however, has the funding earmarked for this purpose been reduced to a total of 10%?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U255	Thank you. Such reductions are often not due to the fact that action is not a priority. Often, there is another definite reason, either for some stage to reach the end, or for resources to be diverted somewhere where the same activity will continue. The summing-up answer is that every project will ever end, and that was the case here too.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U256	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U257	Good manager! Good waitress! I'm not gonna ask you about breeding pigs. I ask you why the sweetest rentals are in Vasknarva, Perdakul and Sürgavere. You are willing to pay EUR 68,5 for the Vasknarva cordon square metre, EUR 59 for the Perdaku border guard post and EUR 49 for the Kejeamet Sürgavere cottage. Why is that? Why are they so expensive?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U258	Thank you, good question! Certainly the price per square metre depends on the state of these buildings, the amount invested there, the location, etc. I dare to assume that the goal is not simply to pay someone a high square meter, rather there are objective reasons at stake.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U259	Please, Vilja Thomas!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U260	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. My second question concerns the financing of the Health Insurance Fund. You said that 12.2% will increase next year, and that this is the provision that the state will pay for non-working old-age pensioners and people's pensioners. The question is what is the basis for calculating this amount. That 12.2% must be 168 million. Is there any evidence at the Health Insurance Fund that so much is currently being spent on treating non-working pensioners from the general health insurance fund, or where did you take this amount? Why are you transferring this amount as a provision?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U261	Thank you. These amounts are due to the need. It's not like someone's just thinking about putting a number in there, and that's what's going to happen.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U262	Javier's outfit.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U263	Thank you. While Estonia's gross domestic product grew by 3.5% in 2016, both the Prime Minister and your political mentor Margus Tsahkna spoke of stagnation and said that a glorious stagnation engine should be launched. Now, if we look at how this stagnation engine has gone, this year's growth is about the same as it was in 2016. By 2019, the Ministry of Finance expects annual growth to decrease. However, there is a significant, nearly 40 times greater increase in the cost of living than in 2016 and a whole lot of important investments from the eastern border to a number of sites have been pushed out of the budget in order to balance the budget in any way. Could you tell us that back then, we were screwed, and this stag engine actually made the machine go completely in the wrong direction?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U264	Thank you. One could also say that at that time certain items were planned at the wrong prices in the budget. Depends on how you look. At the time, Statistics Estonia had not yet come up with the news that real economic growth was higher than expected. And it cannot be said that the economy is not growing during the current coalition that the economy is not doing well. I'm certainly not the minister who takes the credit. We must thank entrepreneurs, our hardworking people. Foreign markets are also doing better, our export opportunities have improved, and this will enable us to invest more in Estonia and people.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U265	Raivo Põldaru.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U266	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Good minister! Investments in Estonia are still welcome and so far large investors have also benefited from certain advantages. In the next budget, there is also a measure by a large investor of 2,9 million. My question is one that is very easy to answer. How many major investors have come to Estonia during your coalition, our very good environment, to support our economy?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U267	Thank you. The question is correct in the sense that we are concerned that there have not been many of them here lately. That's why the coalition's been looking for solutions to get big investors here. And these are not the so-called one-year solutions, that today I will come up with a measure and then I will immediately clap, oh surprise, in a week's time investors will be at the door. It's a longer process, the environment doesn't go fast. And there is also a fundamental question of whether we are prepared to make exceptions if we want large investments here. The current direction is that yes, we expect them here, but rather those who produce greater added value are welcome. That's where we're going. It would certainly not be wise to support a large industrial enterprise that must be here in the hope of hiring 500 euros of people who would be willing to slave. This is certainly not the direction we support.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U268	Kalle Laane.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U269	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister of Finance! I am pleased to congratulate you on taking a very clear position on the activities of the Financial Supervision Authority regarding the Danske scandal. One of our good colleagues in this Chamber has decided to profit politically from the use of an internal political weapon, although at international level it will seriously harm the country and will certainly affect our financial markets. The plan is to discuss money laundering as an important national issue in this Chamber in the near future. At the same time, the whole thing is actually about Danske: they want to find the culprits. Law enforcement agencies, law enforcement agencies are doing their job. Do you think it's wise to use the Danske scandal as an internal political weapon?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U270	Thank you. Well, that's a wider question, isn't it? If the opposition finds mistakes and thinks something's wrong, does he have to keep his mouth shut or might say it out loud? And if he does, will he cut some kind of political pro? And if he does, is it deplorable or not? I agree that this internal toiletling of our country also seems outwards and gives the opportunity to point the finger at Estonia, that you have something wrong then, after all, Estonia is responsible for this whole problem. This must certainly be borne in mind in the national debate. But at the same time, I admit that a lot of people have questions about whether something could have been done better at the time. I have these questions myself. It is precisely in order to look to the future that it is necessary to clarify what may have been the reason that this has happened. And as I said before, I am pleased that the Estonian Financial Supervision Authority has acted forcefully. Actually, we have nothing to be ashamed of.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U271	Madis Milling.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U272	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, We all know that our country has been polished even thinner, at least rhetorical praises for the voluntary contribution of communities. I'm a volunteer savior, but, unfortunately, looking at this budget, I can see that the contribution to voluntary rescue is a banal expression of candy money. And volunteer rescuers continue to travel in cars from 65 C.E. How much was said in the budget negotiations about voluntary rescue and, for example, voluntary help police officers?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U273	Thank you. Internal security, including rescuers, was very heavily on the table. This was already the case in the spring during the discussion of the country's budgetary strategy, where in fact fundamental decisions were made. We have given more money to the payroll and we have made a greater increase in the area of rescuers and police officers in particular than we may have been accustomed to. This is precisely to solve these problems of backwardness. Some accuse it by claiming that we are lavish. I am of the opinion that these are the services we want from the state, the security of the state, also includes rescuers, including volunteers, and relief policemen, and they should certainly not be spared. Right now, the problem is that good men don't become cops. I have personally experienced that young men who are not strong enough are not studying at this school because this profession is not paid enough. We want to change this situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U274	Please, Laine Randjärv!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U275	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! I'm coming to the subject of culture now. Next year, 150 years will come from the first song festival. The question of the training of choir leaders and their remuneration has repeatedly been raised, and two ministries have repeatedly been mocked by the Ministry of Education and Research and the Ministry of Culture, such as Tatikas and Vesipuruul, tossed the dead dog back and forth across the garden. We have been talking about the possibility of introducing an analogous system to reward coaches. You are certainly more familiar with sports matters than I have, and perhaps you have also been there when the state put on top of coach remuneration, that benefits were increased by social tax, that coaches could be paid wages, not scholarships, and that there would be no envelope wages. Since these ministries have not been willing or able to deal with it, could the Ministry of Finance not deal with it? The song party is coming, and maybe it'll be the last time the choir leaders don't come, because their reward is extremely difficult.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U276	I'm sure the tradition of singing and dancing continues. In 2019, "My Love" will be held at the jubilee song festival and dance party, which will be funded with an additional EUR 1.8 million. A total of 100000 euros has also been allocated to the Estonian Choir Association and to the preparation of the Song Festival, as I recall.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U277	Ain Lutsepp.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U278	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I'm asking about Homeland Security and Homeland Security. A moment ago, you were talking about police underfunding, small wages, and that young people wouldn't be there. I look at the share of GDP by administration. By area of government, the Ministry of the Interior receives less money from the budget in 2019 than in 2018 both as a sum and as a percentage of GDP. Here's my question. The promise to raise the wages of the rescuers, the salaries of the border guards, the wages of the police officers is unfulfilled. It's an internal security issue. How was the budget decided on with such a result that the Ministry of the Interior's budget would fall?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U279	Yeah, thanks! This is a perfectly correct observation that there is a reduction in the budget. There are also very clear reasons for this. The fall compared to 2018 relates to the cost of a patrol vessel of EUR 16,1 million and the cost of a monitoring aircraft with pollution monitoring capability of EUR 18,3 million. In 2019, no such large purchases are foreseen and this is also the reduction in the amount.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U280	Ants Laaneots.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U281	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. My question concerns the field of defence, namely the two crucial power gaps of the Defence Forces, i.e. central air protection and coastal defence. They are essentially lacking in the Defence Forces, although there have been discussions about them and their need has been confirmed throughout this year. Looking at the chapter of the Ministry of Defence in the state budget project, I could not find a word about the creation of these two capabilities of paramount importance to security. My question to you, Minister, is: how do you comment on this? Or in other words, have you spoken to the Department of Defense about this?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U282	Thank you. I would like to start by saying that next year's budget for the Ministry of Defence will increase by EUR 61 million, totalling EUR 585 million, according to the NATO definition and 2.16% of GDP. The detailed capabilities of the Ministry of Defence are not included in the explanatory memorandum. There are reasons why they don't. In this area, I trust our Minister for Defence, who is very competent. During different meetings abroad, I hear the praise of our Minister of Defence, his expertise and knowledge over and over again.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U283	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U284	Good manager and waitress! I've been in a lot of rescue troops lately. And even though the government has promised to raise their wages significantly, the men who actually do the rescue work do not really believe that their wages will rise to EUR 1000 per month. Rather, they think that the office brothers and sisters get most of the cream. Please confirm to those men who actually save that their wages will still rise to EUR 1000 per month.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U285	Thank you. I'm afraid I can't confirm that. I can assure you that we have added extra money from the budget. I'm promised their wages will rise to 1,000 euros. This is the responsibility of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and these promises have come from there. I really hope these guys in their wallets feel that raise too. Yes, I admit that it has been a concern in the past year that the effects of wage increases have disappeared to some higher ranks, and there is not much to go down there. But today, I think it's different this time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U286	George Adams.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U287	Mr. Minister! The explanatory memorandum to the draft state budget states that the Institute of State Law will be allocated EUR 300000 next year. As far as I know, this institute doesn't exist yet. The Minister of Justice, Reinsalu, has said from the very remote point where you are standing now that it is meant to be a completely separate institution. I understand that all universities in which law is currently taught and lawyers' organisations regard this as essentially a mistrust to their current work and ability. Can you tell us what's wrong with our constitutional law that it takes such an extraordinary and drastic step?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U288	Thank you for your question. I wouldn't say it's such an extraordinary and drastic step. This subject has been on the table many times since I remember it, and this need has been discussed. There are those who support it, those who are critical of it. In this sense, the situation has not changed. The current coalition has found this to be the right step. But the area of constitutional law is the competence of the Minister of Justice. I really hope he takes the right steps.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U289	Aivar Surva.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U290	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister of Finance! I'm gonna ask you how those saviors' wages are still lost to those higher strata. You said that the income base of local governments is increasing, and you do not want to interfere with it by telling us how to use this money. Well, quite reasonable, it doesn't. Local government leaders are quite happy to deal with this themselves. They make their development plans, make investment plans and implement them as far as possible. That's right, as far as possible. Often, resources are simply lacking. And now I'm asking. You claimed that the government was making consensual decisions. Where is this mystical consensus of government? Who in the Republic of Estonia will find the objects that the local authorities do not yet know and will direct the money there? And now these municipalities are going to have to start implementing all this.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U291	Thank you. If you come back to the savior's pay again, the extra money that will be put there will be EUR 7.9 million. And if the salary increase didn't get to them often or didn't get to the extent they'd been waiting, I really hope this time it's gonna be different. As far as local government is concerned, local decision-making can take place. It could be up to them. And because the chances of municipalities getting better are that more money will come to them over the years, it is only positive.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U292	Madis Milling.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U293	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, On 13 April 2014, your party partner, Juhan Parts Ärieht, said that the acquisition of ships by the state would make it possible to save €6 to €8 million per year on charter fees. However, in 2017, the subsidy was 17.2 million, in 2018 20.9 million and in 2019 17,6 million are planned. This, however, is certainly not the final amount. My question: how much more will there be?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U294	Thank you. Are we talking about ferry traffic? These figures, which are in the budget, will hopefully not change much in 2019. It is estimated that the state's purchase of these ships and the start of providing this service will result in savings of EUR 60 million in 10 years. A recent analysis also reached this conclusion. Whether this is going to happen is a question of its own. I think that the state will behave prudently when it offers a high-quality service at a cheaper price in a sector where there is virtually no competition. Let's be honest, it's very difficult to come out there and offer your service when someone is already organising this transport. According to current knowledge, in any case, the state has savings.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U295	Ain Lutsepp.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U296	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, Again, the security issue concerning the administration of the Ministry of the Interior. The implementation of the concept of public protection, which has spent a lot of time and resources, will have zero funding in the 2019 budget. And the next such area is increasing the National Defence Capacity and Crisis Preparedness of the Rescue Board, as well as zero. Why this approach?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U297	Thank you. When we look at ministries' budgets, they reflect priorities. There isn't enough money for everything that's expected or needed. Maybe that's why there's zero funding today. The Ministry of the Interior plans its budget according to needs and activities; there will certainly be nothing important left to do there.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U298	March Sults.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U299	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! In view of the fact that next year the Gambling Tax Council will cease to exist at the Riigikogu, I would like to ask this question: where is the money allegedly saved, which has so far gone from the budget to the Gambling Tax Council? In which article, what area has this money gone into?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U300	Thank you. These amounts are divided between the various ministries and organisations that receive money from the budget. It was literally a cost, if I remember the order of magnitude correctly, twenty thousand euros a year. It's split up.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U301	Arno Bridge.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U302	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. Little has been said about farmers' concerns in today's debate, but we know how difficult it was for farmers this summer because of the drought. You stated in general terms that farmers' payments for the coming year have been increased, but can you say more specifically what has been increased? According to the work of the Chamber of Agriculture and Trade, farmers have suffered some 150 million losses. The government allocated the amount of the loan to 20 million, but farmers did not care much about this credit facility because the interest is so high that even the bank receives the loan more favourably. As far as I know, part of this loan is unused. Could you please explain how farmers can be better supported next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U303	And thank you! The transitional payments will continue to be paid in accordance with the Coalition Agreement for a total amount of EUR 16.9 million. We certainly have new directions in this too, such as 0.6 million for beekeepers, for monitoring plant health and organic farming and 1.5 million for certification of seeds. These are all the indirect allocations that go into this area. When we talk specifically about the concerns caused by impatientity or warm summers, agriculture is like any kind of entrepreneurship associated with risks. I hope that in better times, like last years, some fat was collected to survive some unfulfilled years. Yes, the state has allocated 20 million working capital to the Rural Promotion Foundation for issuing loans. The amount has been allocated to the foundation this year and the state budget for next year will no longer be included.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U304	Lauri Luik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U305	Thank you. Good minister! In my opinion, the budgets of good times must always be in surplus, well balanced, but in no way negative. How would you act as an entrepreneur if your company's CEO comes to you with a negative budget over several years in a row? What would you say to him, and what advice would you give, or what would you do with him? If it were up to you to put the budget together, what would you change next year's budget to become a budget that meets the normal requirements of growth years?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U306	Thank you. First of all, I'm going to make a correction for the budget being in surplus. In nominal terms, this year's budget is in surplus with 170 million, next year's budget is in surplus with 130 million. There is no justification for talking about the deficit budget. When we are talking about structural balance, one rule has been put in place to contain countries that live year after year in deficit and whose public debt is high. To force these countries to reduce their debt, these rules are in place. But in some ways, it's a good indication that if we're structurally balanced, we're counting on economic cycles. In good times, the state does not contribute too much, and if it goes worse, the country will have the opportunity to invest more, to support the economy.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U307	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U308	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! I am asking about the liquidation of the Gambling Tax Council from 1 January. How and where have lobby groups been formed with ministries to introduce small players? And under what conditions do decision makers expect to finance events worth up to EUR 1000, which have been possible through the Gambling Tax Council? And who are the decision-makers who are asked or can ask what these really are, which should be financed either by the Ministry of Culture, the EOK or the Ministry of Social Affairs? I mean, who is this lobby group right now? Lobby was somewhat able to make gambling tax on the Council. He could ask why. But who's asking why now? 'Is it?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U309	Thank you. In sport, for example, it is very simple: money moves to the Olympic Committee and is distributed to the sub-unions according to specific rules. Systemically, it could be like this in the big picture. There are certainly those who want these small grants. I think it has not been the right solution, that they have come to the Riigikogu to see a member of the Gambling Tax Council, and he will distribute these grants a few hundred euros at a time. I have realised that there is now going to be an opportunity to turn to the ministries and the applications will be handled transparently, so that there is no feeling that decisions have been made somewhere in the dark of the corridors. The ministers of the sector are now responsible for this.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U310	Lauri Luik, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U311	Thank you. Good minister! I'll pick up where I left off. These reasons have also been introduced from this platform to the year and have been embellished in this text. But we're practically taking it anyway. If you take your company for example: if your company's CEO says that in good times your cash flow is negative and you keep pinching funds from reserves, how do you feel about it? Do you think it's basically right, or do you get a red light that says something's wrong? If, in a few years' time, both the world and the Estonian economy should turn around again, then there will still be real crap. How do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U312	Thank you. That's a real question! First of all, I would like to understand why cash flows are negative. If these are negative because the company invests in the future, and because of this, in the future, it will ensure a decent flow of money, a decent profit, I will shake his hand. If he pays back a loan he took earlier because it's a cost to keep that money in a safe, then I'll shake his hand and say, "Well done, there's really no point burning that money in there! Because of inflation, the value of money is falling. If a loan is taken and interest paid to hold it, it is not wise to keep money in that safe. This needs to be seen in this context. At national level, you can also look at it the way that we collect so much taxes if we have nowhere to put this money, if we have no more sense of doing it than adding it to the reserves we have. Specialists have said that reserves are sufficient, the risks have been assessed, but we are still putting money in reserve where it loses its value. I wouldn't really appreciate a leader like that.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U313	Mr Tõniste, there are no further questions for you. Thank you very much for answering the questions. I would like to ask for the presentation by the Committee on Monetary Affairs of the Chair Chair, Mikhail Stalnukhini.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U314	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, Yes, I think that 64 questions are more than enough for the Minister of Finance, given that half of them did not touch at all on what we are discussing here today. Now let's get down to business. The Finance Committee dealt with the state budget at five meetings on 8, 9, 11, 15 and 16 October. We met with the Minister of Finance on 8 October. He made a budget review which was shorter and less detailed than his presentation today. So I'm not gonna say it again anyway. During these five days, the longest discussion was one hour and a quarter. I will give you an overview of what happened in the Commission. But I have to say, we usually talk a lot more than we have in this verbatim. It's a referendum protocol, which means long introductions and moral sermons are excluded. A total of 15 questions were put to the Minister for Finance. Amazingly, none of them sounded in this hall at this hearing. Where the structural minus of 2017 comes from, my colleague Ligi asked. (In this debate, we also have fixed the names of the questioners.) When the budget was made, there was no mention of what this recalculation meant, whether it was somehow related to the economic cycle or not. (I will not speak separately, either, who replied to the committee, because once the minister replied, one of the officials who accompanied him. I'm just saying the answer.) There are two reasons, because Statistics Estonia reacted afterwards to last year's number. Basically, this is the correction of Statistics Estonia and these adjustments, the specification being 0.6% of GDP. The question of Mr Clothes: has long-term structural balance been abandoned? Answer: The rule of long-term structural balance is that you may be in deficit by the plus of previous years, but in the long term, the sum must be zero. Aivar Sõerdi's question: when we talk about the depletion of net assets in 2019, how much do they shrink? Answer: 20 million, next year's cash flow is negative. Enn Meri's question: has the impact of Rail Baltic been included in the net assets? Answer: It doesn't affect the big picture. Aivar Sõerd asked about the volume of costs. The answer: the total cost is 11.3 billion. The total amount comes from costs and cash flows from investments. Aivar Sõerd asked about the transition from the cash-based budget to the accrual-based budget and about the differences in the calculation of the balance. Answer: When we talk about the budgetary position, it relates to the difference between the statistical definition and the accounting definition. Here is a small comment from me: in relation to this question, I asked staff to find material that would explain in more detail the difference between a cash-based budget and an accrual-based budget. It's quite there. So if Mr. Sõerd wishes, we'll pass on these articles to him. Question from Aivar Sõerd: why do we not reflect investment on an accrual basis when the budget is accrual-based? Answer: Investments are not accrual-based; they are actually reflected as depreciation on an accrual-based basis. My question was about the percentage of defence costs, and the answer was that next year it is forecast to be 2.16. It's a prognosis, so it could go up or down a little bit, so we'll find out a little bit later. Taavi Rõivas asked for clarification on what is increasing in terms of funding for local authorities. The answer was that the income base is growing at the expense of the income tax to be allocated: income tax receipts are increasing, investment subsidies from CO2 revenues are increasing by 17 million to local governments, and operating and investment subsidies provide an additional 11 million. So these things are called. Jürgen Ligi asked about the Health Insurance Fund whether this 140 million euro was fixed or whether it was meant to grow. How is it written in the law, is every year a provision from the state budget? Answer: It grows and reaches 13%. The total amount of funds allocated to the Health Insurance Fund is 1.5 billion euros, an increase of 13%, or 180 million euros. Next year, the Health Insurance Fund will take over the procurement of medicines (including HIV/AIDS medicines and vaccines), the financing of emergency treatment for people without health insurance, and some prevention activities of a total amount of EUR 33 million. My colleague Sõerd asked about the pension cost, which is 1.8 billion: how much is it part of the social tax and how much is added at the expense of other tax revenues? Answer: The part to be added is starting to decrease. It's about 160 million now. The pensions are in there, their share is decreasing. The latest forecast is that by 2025 the first pillar system should be balanced against the social tax ratio. My question was that, according to the table, the increase in parental benefit was 8%, but I calculated the real figure at 11.5%. Why is that? Answer: An increase of 8% is a change in the total budget, but this is affected by both the number of recipients and the estimated average parental benefit recipient. Jürgen Ligi's question: how is greenhouse gas sales now, how does this system work? Answer: More than 100 million can be gained from its sale. The Ministry of Finance has raised the forecast. Originally, the price per unit of CO2 was EUR 12, currently EUR 17. There could be another 36 million. For the last question, no questioner is mentioned. It is said here that the basic salary of patrol officers and border guards will be at least EUR 1280 for the coming year, plus regional fees. For example, in Ida-Virumaa, the real income of a patrol police officer will be EUR 1700. Can Ida-Viru get a separate coefficient? Answer: He received several years ago, based on how difficult it is to get a job in the region and how difficult it is to get a job in the area. We also took the following procedural decisions on 8 October. It was decided to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu a bill to bring 700, the 2019 draft budget to the hall today, on 17 October. The chairman of the committee was appointed rapporteur. It was also proposed to close the first reading and to set 10 working days for amendments, i.e. the deadline of 31 October at 5.15 p.m. All these decisions were taken by consensus. But I have plenty of material, because there was a ministerial hearing. Now I'm trying to give you a brief overview of what we talked about with them. The first to visit was Andres Anvelt, the Ministry of the Interior. He told us that EUR 404.4 million of the state budget was earmarked for the Ministry of the Interior. The increase in public revenue is 9.1%, while the volume of external aid and co-financing has fallen by 44%. This is one of the few questions that were raised in this Chamber. The minister explained why this happened a quarter of an hour ago. Mr Anvelt said that the increase in the Police and Border Guard Board's payroll fund would be 12,9 million next year and that the basic salary for patrol police and border guards would be at least 1280 euros. He also said that the average basic salary for rescuers would be EUR 1000 next year and EUR 7.9 million would be allocated. The remuneration fund of the IT and Development Centre of the Ministry of the Interior will increase by 1.9 million euros and employees' salaries will increase on average by 20%. The Salary Fund of the Emergency Response Centre will grow by EUR 400000, or 8%. That was Mr Anvelt's end, and then the questions came up. There was an interest that, if 23,6% of this year's payroll fund is planned to increase the salaries of rescue officers for the next year, it will take place in the coming years. According to the Minister, the increase in the salaries of rescue officers must be the subject of discussions on the country's budget strategy in the coming years. It was noted that the turnover of the labour force in Ida-Virumaa after the abolition of special pensions for police officers was intrigued by the extent to which the measures currently being put in place would improve the situation. According to the Minister, there is an interest in working with the police. This year, 22 students from Ida-Virumaa, i.e. one in four, are admitted to the National Defence Academy if memory does not deceive me. They were asking about new major rescue cars. According to the Minister, the process is that it turned out that some of the garages to which these cars are assigned cannot be driven in purely physical. We need to rebuild the garages first. They asked if there were plans to increase the number of police officers. The Minister explained the creation of 45 new regional constables. In addition, there will be rapid response capability in four major centres in Tallinn, Tartu, Pärnu and Narva. They wanted to know what was the structural or substantive priority of the Ministry of the Interior. Answer: Keeping staff and modernising information technology are the main priorities, in addition to the whole area of internal security, such as reducing accident deaths. There was also interest in building the eastern border. According to the Minister, it is built in sections and is built according to a realistic plan. In autumn, the construction of the first four sections begins and starts at the riskiest. It should be taken into account that there is no building in difficult soils in all weather. The object is extremely complex. That concludes the meeting with the Minister of the Interior. Next was the Ministry of Social Affairs and Mrs Kaia Iva, or social protection. He introduced us to the main figures in his field. Costs will increase by 8.7% and revenues by 11.5% next year. The total cost and investment of the family policy performance area is 6% of the state budget. Social protection performance area costs and investments account for 17% of the state budget. He also noted the increase in the parental benefit budget for the following year, which is EUR 17 million, i.e. up to EUR 240 per month. The average compensation will rise to EUR 1258, with an average of EUR 1126 this year. The wage fund base for social workers will grow by 4 million euros, or around 12%. Finally, the Minister noted that the pension will increase from EUR 447 to EUR 481 next year. After that, the debate began. They wanted to know what was next year's substantial innovation in the field of social protection in the Ministry of Social Affairs. According to the Minister, a specific innovation is a parenthood programme that was previously a pilot project. In addition, a reduction in long-term care and maintenance burden is an innovation. There was an interest in giving local authorities the decision-making power to provide aid to disabled persons in a situation where the assignment of disability is no longer a matter for the municipality. The situation is very different across Estonia, in some areas the disability is more determined. The Minister explained that local authorities are currently not given disability benefits but a very small amount of very specific activities, such as carer support. It's a municipal decision he'll make with it. That concludes the meeting with the Minister for Social Protection. Next we had the Minister of Education and Science. He was talking about teachers' salaries, which I think is the most important thing. The wage fund is planned to grow by 9% and wages will rise from EUR 1150 this year to EUR 1250 next year. The figure that was the subject of the debate in this Chamber, EUR 1 500, is the calculated average that awaits us. The Minister also spoke about funding higher education, which will increase by 4.8 million. The financing of general education will increase by 62 million and VET by 35.3 million. R &amp; D &amp; I will receive €19 million. After that, there was a debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U315	Dear waitress, your speaking time has ended. You have questions too. Igor Kravtšenko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U316	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You have dealt very thoroughly with what has happened in the Commission, but perhaps you have failed to say something that deserves to be brought before us.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U317	Discussions with the Minister of Education and with seven other ministers have not been reflected. I would not like to talk about this in the second reading if we are already discussing the amendments. Thank you, Igor, for asking: it was a very wise thing to do. So with your permission, I'll continue. Mailis Reps was asked about the apprentice program. According to the Minister, there are different ways to do this. This means working together, internship and vocational education. The Minister stated that most school-based learning takes place at school, plus an internship at the workplace. There was an interest in whether adult education works in cooperation with the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund. According to the Minister's explanation, the career guidance system will be transferred to the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund. It will seek solutions and opportunities for more training for existing vocational schools by the unemployment fund. And the third, final question: what happened to the pilot project on teaching Estonian, the so-called 60:40? According to the Minister, the City of Tallinn and the Ministry of Education and Research signed contracts and supported the initiative of the three schools to get a better than average result in teaching the Estonian language. The money was used to buy teaching tools and digital assets and to organize language camps. These three ministers met with us on 9 October. The following three ministers came to the Commission on 11 October. Janek Mäggi was the first of them. He stated that the revenue of the local governments' budgets would increase by 5% next year, i.e. EUR 2.2 billion. It was also important to note that the total investment volume of local governments and their sub-units is forecast to be EUR 1.9 billion over the 2019-2022 period. I am pointing out here that, after the conversation, it was also said that during the last four years, this ability to invest was equal to EUR 1.3 billion. That means that if we take the average, it was 325 million in the last period. But already in 2019, local authorities' investment capacity is estimated to be EUR 440 million, which is EUR 115 million more than this year. There was also a debate about the funding of all the projects that are distributed across Estonia on the basis of the three programmes. Anyway, I wanted to see this distribution, and we asked for the relevant data to be sent to us. I don't know how the Minister and his officials understood what I asked for. We were simply sent project budgets and payments during the period 2014 to 2018. Here is the total cost and support from the European Union. This is not the data I would like to see for 2019. So on this point, we are addressing the Minister once again. The next was Minister Riina Sikkut, the area of government of the Ministry of Social Affairs, health and work. It was pointed out that next year the social security contribution of the state budget to the health insurance fund will be EUR 1311.9 million. Growth compared to this year is 132.6 million euros, i.e. 11.2%. Next year, the state budget allocation to the Estonian Health Insurance Fund will be 140 million euros for old-age and people's pensioners who are not in employment. The increase compared to this year is EUR 48.6 million. As I said at the beginning of this presentation, this is the subject on which Mr Jürgen Ligi also asked the Minister for Finance. In total, the budget of the Health Insurance Fund will increase by EUR 181 million next year, which will include both higher social tax receipts and the services that will be transferred to the Health Insurance Fund. The minister also briefly discussed the projects that his ministry was involved in, but we did not have a longer discussion on this issue. They asked what cooperation between the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund and vocational schools has been like in re-training unemployed people. According to the Minister, the unemployment fund is the contracting authority and funder of various trainings. The Unemployment Insurance Fund is working together with vocational schools to increase the role of vocational schools, which was briefly discussed before. There was an interest in how far discussions have taken place concerning the reduction of unemployment insurance contributions. The Minister explained that the labour market is in good shape at the moment. The Unemployment Insurance Fund has also "played through" crisis scenarios. If unemployment really started to grow in the same way as in the financial crisis, the unemployment fund's reserves would continue to be available for two years.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U318	Dear waitress, I'll cut you off for a moment. The questioner asked if there was anything else important. He didn't ask me to refer everything.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U319	In my opinion, everything we are discussing in the Committee on Monetary Affairs is important. When people who have been chosen from the so-called shell ask questions, there are really problems, they want to know all about it. If Jürgen Ligi asks, the whole hall is worth knowing. I don't think we should save time here. We had a two-and-a-half-hour debate before that. At first, the representative of one group spoke of the fact that success is over, we have stagna time, everything is frozen. After an hour and a half, a representative of the same group asked the question that what we are going to do is that the economy will soon be on fire, it is overheated in such a terrible way. If such a question, such a false logic is considered to be important, what is wrong with it now? They wanted to know how many people with reduced working capacity have moved to the labour market. According to the Minister, the aim was for half of them to enter the labour market. According to the Unemployment Insurance Fund, 53% of the inability to work did not reach the labour market during the first half of the year. The next answer was that the surplus of the budget of the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund should be 34.7 million euros. It also asked about the resources allocated to information and communication technologies. The answer was that the financial allocation would go to different areas, such as the SKAIS, plus health-related funding and basic funding. Next came the Minister of Rural Affairs Tarmo Tamm, who introduced the budget of his ministry to us. The main information was that Estonia's agriculture, rural development and fisheries will be supported next year with a total of EUR 349 million, of which EUR 133.9 million will be direct payments. Here, too, was the issue of what is justified by changes in direct payments. A total of 910 million is foreseen for seven years and its distribution is decided by experts, depending on many circumstances. Interest, which is a substantive innovation in the rural area. The Minister pointed out the support for bee families, the support for veterinary training, which is a duty imposed by law on the State, and the increase in the salaries of veterinarians. They wanted to know how much crisis assistance the country had to provide this year. According to the Minister, EUR 20 million was allocated to the Rural Promotion Foundation, through which agricultural organisations can quickly borrow money. Vireen AS was also asked about dividends. Answer: In the context of State participation reporting, an annual analysis is being carried out and proposals are being made to the government to what kind of dividends might be taken. A certain amount has been booked in the budget, but the exact amount of dividends will be decided by the government next year according to actual economic performance. So, then, the following was Minister of Culture, Indrek Saar, who was on the Commission this week on Monday. For him, the most important information, which he shared with the Commission, was that the planned budget was EUR 251 million. The expenditure and investment budget for the following year has increased by 5.7% compared to this year. One very good news is that next year the minimum wage for cultural workers with higher education paid by the state will rise by at least 8.7%, i.e. from EUR 1150 to EUR 1250. The four-year increase has been 71%. We talked about Estonian National Broadcasting. The TV house, the television complex and the renovation and reconstruction of the national library were also discussed. The Minister reported that the size of the repair fund in the Ministry is 2 million and the distribution of money is needs-based. Next up was the Secretary of Defense. Here we can talk about the Ministry of Defence's budget being EUR 585 million. Growth is 61 million compared to this year. The main objective is to keep military personnel's salary 30% above the average salary in Estonia. 40% of the Ministry's budget goes to major procurement, is used up there. Steps will be taken to improve weaponry and equipment. It also invests in infrastructure, campuses and exercise fields. They asked for an explanation of wages. It was also asked whether it was conceivable that an assisted support service could be obtained from outside. The minister said that's what they're doing. It was asked whether the budget provided funds to improve the system for mobilising the reserve forces. The answer was that basically the exercises try to practice both options. There are currently study gatherings with the troops, while training is being done to distribute equipment in the forest. And yesterday we met with the Minister of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure Kadri Samson. The Minister told us how his resources were distributed in different directions. We discussed train traffic, road financing, etc. But if you think it doesn't matter, I'll stop.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U320	You decide. Thank you, Mr President of the Commission. You don't seem to have any more questions. I'm opening negotiations. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U321	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the Minister of Finance for this recognition to Estonian financial supervision in 2014, as an introduction. Please take the lead: your institutions should not be smeared for internal policy purposes. If it's done well, jumped at least seven meters, and the others haven't even beaten four yet, there's no reason to mock. It can't be done by a snail who can't fly off the ground at all. Other than that, I'm more critical. First of all, the Minister of Finance went a long way towards blaming the previous coalition. On the subject of excise duty, it was said that the previous coalition led us to the brink of excise policy, but we took a long, long step forward. And he was very proud of it. That's not really the way it's supposed to be. Whoever started this isn't important. The question, however, was built on it. Everyone has raised the excise duty, but if you raise ten times as much as the others, you might want to restrain yourself a little bit and not talk, all the same because we had Sester as the Minister of Finance. I have four kinds of reproach for this budget. First of all, an economic policy complaint. Maybe the Minister of Finance didn't understand what I was saying or what we were saying. In principle, this government, whose minister it is, promised to revive the economy by making the rules of the budget so that it could be overexploited. The fact is that growth is now exactly what it was when they came to power and falling. What has risen? Prices. Inflation has increased from 0.1% to nearly 4%, which is certainly the fault of the government. It simply shows that this rigour with economic growth has been a cynical lie that we have already said at the time, and these costs, not to mention taxes, have not increased but reduced the potential for growth. And although the main problem has been the external environment, it was also the main problem at the time, it cannot be compensated by increasing domestic demand. It can only damage the economy, which has undoubtedly been done. Secondly, I have a complaint about overall sustainability. It's been said for two years. Now we could make a budget with a surplus and still leave more reserves behind than we had when we came to power, because such a golden time might not be long. Forecasts don't indicate it's coming again. Of course, reserves in terms of interest or the combination of inflation and interest are currently costs, but they are insurance costs. And it's worth paying for insurance, we all save money, even though inflation is fluctuating. That's one. Secondly, interest rates are changing and the current interest environment is on the rise: it may not be a cost at one point anymore. Anyway, in the United States, monetary policy is changing dramatically. I will further emphasise that stockpiling is, however, practical. The third complaint is about honesty. Is this budget for yourself or for society? Estonia has undoubtedly moved in the right direction. This means that finance ministers, governments, disown themselves and enforce rules by which they build, divide and support, there will be no side-by-side grabs. At this point, it can be said that this sharing of roofing money, which we have been trying to civilise for years, we have been abandoning it for the second year since it has not been able to civilise enough, is still gone for stealing. Anyway, some kind of kindergarten, some kind of school or some kind of swimming pool is suddenly being built on the surface of their own advantage, without it being... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U322	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U323	... an understandable kindergarten, school or swimming pool program. Or they build a church just because the church didn't like it anymore. It's actually buying votes, a very bad political culture, that's how we don't have money for a long time. It should be ashamed to death. It should also be ashamed of the chairman of the Fatherland, who fattens his sports association. This should be shamed by the Minister of Education, to whom we inherited over 60 million this year, but in total over 200 million schools networks, which should result in more money for the content of education and teachers' salaries. But party bosses are sitting together and kicking their neighborhoods somewhere else into a schoolhouse that doesn't meet any of the conditions for structural reform and which actually prevents the school network from being organized: the children are back in a school that is not complete, where there are union classes and where the number of students is clearly falling. So one thing is dishonesty. And fourthly, we are still asking where the structural reforms are. That question was completely incomprehensible to the Minister of Finance. I couldn't ask everything, but it was clear that he started talking about Russian politics and tax peace. I'm sorry, but what fucking tax truce? If you've thrown a mess in the house and the others have to settle it, it's not a very calm feeling. Excise policy is one example, income tax is another. The next government must begin to settle these matters so that there is no unfair overtaxation, etc. So that word is just inappropriate right now. There is also a need to talk about Russian policy, because you have several of these Russian policies according to the auditorium. In any case, this is not some structural reform that we asked the Minister of Finance about. However, I would still have liked to know where the country spends better, more efficiently, more precisely and more targetedly, where it sums up to do some new things and where there is a euro money exit. Already in 2012, it was said that we were working on it. Of course, everything was very vague at the time, and I do not have the book to show. But the Minister of Finance can only say that it seems that the amount we get is going to decrease by 24%. This is a very large amount, especially if we add nominal economic growth here. And that part of the budget is shrinking. So in any case, it is necessary to give answers to this question or at least to tell the Riigikogu that we are dealing with these and their problems. I could not ask, unfortunately, that if everyone permits a reduction in excise duties and four lines of roads, then where is the climate disaster policy? Maybe it would have been too complicated. But I would actually like to have this said in this Chamber, so that everyone does not just build roads and lower the excise duty on fossil fuels and sell themselves to voters in this way. This was not now a direct complaint to the Minister of Finance. I just didn't get a chance to ask. But thank you again for this financial supervision section.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U324	Enn Meri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U325	Dear Vice-Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to say a few words about the budget itself. I will deal with the state budget for the first time, and I must agree with Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise's view that it is not easy to understand the budget and it does not allow a member of the Riigikogu to decide on the costs. The budget must also be reviewed quickly in time. As an entrepreneur, I have prepared many budgets myself, and I could give good advice to the Ministry of Finance to draw up tables. The tables should be drawn up in such a way that the expenditure of ministries is broken down by category (e.g. labour costs, economic costs), compared with the current estimate of actual expenditure and then accompanied by the number of employees and changes. The state budget is intended for all of us, not just members of the Riigikogu and employees of the ministries. This is an important document, which must also be understandable for people without economic higher education. The general comment on the 2019 budget is that it has not been intended to make a possible re-allocation of expenditure and revenue, such as raising labour costs, reducing them and introducing an equity tax to cover them. As far as macro-economics are concerned, the Free Party Group thinks that the Estonian economy is slightly overheated. This is particularly true of the construction sector. Eesti Pank has also repeatedly argued this and, as we know, the situation will not improve in the coming years. Large construction projects such as the construction of the eastern border, rental apartment buildings, the construction of motorways and Rail Baltic have an impact on the construction sector. Overheating has also brought us labour shortages in many sectors. To a certain extent, our education system is also responsible, which does not always prepare the people we need. I recommend a critical review of the educational landscape: there is no point in training people in jobs that we do not need. And possible changes in the budget. The budget indicates that the planned cost of government services is 2 billion and 101 million. Outside this amount comes national defence, health care and other activities. But it is also the case that all organisations can achieve a balance between functions and resources, in other words, saving people and money. In our opinion and in the view of many people in Estonia who know the administration of the state, a 10% savings target in the administration of the state is not impossible. We think that we could give the ministries the task of reviewing their administrative budgets and making corresponding corrections there. The aim would be to save EUR 200 million in public administration and to divide this amount between the areas needed. Our opinion, and certainly our opinion of the Minister of Defence, is that Estonia urgently needs to obtain a mid-earth anti-aircraft missile system for the Defence Forces. This is the weakest place in our Defence Forces to be repaired. But there are also alternative costs that could be covered by savings money in public administration. As an example, we call health care, pension systems, care for old people, public order, internal security, social protection. Research and development should not be forgotten either. We have a lot of holes to fill and the money is never too much. How can we make changes? In my opinion, the Riigikogu should act both as a board of private companies. The Riigikogu should not only deal with the details of the budget, which the members of the Riigikogu may not always understand and which lead to... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U326	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U327	... attention away from the big issues. Small money is spoken of and large sums are passed because they are not always understood. The Riigikogu, as well as the private company council, should provide general guidance to the government, ministries, on what to do or change. For example, general government administrative costs could be cut by 10%. After all, ministries who are better aware of the situation and details will then review their area and make appropriate adjustments. The corrected budget will be returned to the Riigikogu and accepted. In this way, the Riigikogu will regain its real power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U328	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U329	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, This is the third budget that I do as chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, but for the first time, I am so calm. I would say that for me, this budget is a sign of peace and stability. Today I gave several interviews in front of the cameras. Journalists told me that before you there were representatives of a opposition party standing here and saying that its budget was negative because there were no ambitions. Ambition is good for one particular person. For all the others around him, it's actually a big problem. If the ambition is to be among the richest five in the European Union, it is not an ambition. It carries us somewhere in the swamp, because the way to achieve this goal just doesn't exist. So we should be happy with this bill. We introduced everything that sounded like last year. The Board criticised the state budget quite a bit last year. Time showed that the truth was still on the side of those who prepared it, but the conjunction was this. This time the prognosis is quite different: it is positive. It's even more positive than the Ministry of Finance, and I see a very good sign in it. We are structurally balanced and probably even positive by the end of next year. We're half a percent plus in terms of nominal equilibrium. This is what no one believed in this hall last year and the year before. Didn't you? Was. We have come to the situation, and I note that this is not a single group, but a result of our work, the Riigikogu, where the income base of local governments has grown so high that it is well beyond the excellence of 2008. I think there are two thirds of people in this Chamber from the background of local government and they understand that this is the heartache of all of us. This is one of the most important questions about how municipalities manage. Looks like next year they'll have every opportunity and the country's gonna put on their shoulders all the time. The state raises salaries in the field of Ministry of the Interior and Ministry of Education. A new measure has even been found to raise the salaries of kindergarteners without taking them into the state's wages. 15.1 million goes to municipalities, where kindergarten workers with a master's degree receive 100% and simply raisers 90% of the minimum wage. This is something new in this policy. We found ways to solve the financial problems of our medical care. No thing is possible at the beginning if it's any harder than twice two equals four, without errors applied. Recently here Mr Luman showed us what ended the car tax in 2008: 5 million plus was expected and 24 million minus was received. So maybe there'll be some setbacks, but right now we're talking about doing pretty well. It is a very good budget if you take it clean, without political slogans. This is a budget that could satisfy Estonia and the Estonian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U330	Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U331	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, When I looked at this debate, at first it felt like we were at a press conference for a mild alcohol producer. Most of the questions were about excise duty. It is certainly worth telling our good colleagues from the Reform Party that the budget is 11 billion, of which 250 million in alcohol excise duties. In 2016, 52 million were collected, 58 million in 2017 and more than 60 million this year, just looking at the collection of lean alcohol excise duty. Are you paying attention to the tendency? Each year, the excise duty on lean alcohol is higher than in the previous year. When we talk about alcohol duty today, we can only talk about the loss of income that was expected, but not about a possible tax hole. When we talk about the government's goal, as in previous years, one of the major objectives of this budget is to bring a sustainable and macroeconomic balance budget to the Riigikogu and also to leave this Riigikogu. I think that the budget must have its own specific priorities. The government has established relatively precisely what his vision is. I am certainly pointing out support for growth. I bring out an increase in defence and well-being. And notice: we will do all this without further tax increases and without additional debt growth. I think it's very important. In terms of finances, the budget could be summed up with quite a few keywords. One of these keywords is 'tax peace'. There will be no new taxes in the state budget for next year. There is no increase in the existing tax rate in the state budget next year. This is a tax truce and I think it is needed both by the citizens of our Republic of Estonia and by entrepreneurs. That's something you can be proud of. As far as the tax burden is concerned, did you notice that during this debate the opposition did not ask any questions about the tax burden? Exactly a year ago, that was one of the main questions. What weren't they asking about? Because the tax burden does not increase. The tax burden is currently well below the EU average. Next year it will be 33.6% of GDP and downward. For this reason, the opposition did not ask any questions on this issue. Did you notice that the opposition did not ask any questions about the government debt ratio? In the past, it has been said that the debt burden is increasing. What weren't they asking about? For a very simple reason: the debt burden is decreasing. Again, when we look at last year, our debt burden was 8.2%. If we look at this year, it's 7.4%. If we look at next year, our debt burden will be 6.7% of GDP. This decrease has come at the expense of economic growth, on the one hand, and of the fact that we are simply paying back loans, on the other. When we are talking about budgetary balance, did you notice that during today's debate, there was no mention of budgetary balance from the viewpoint of the opposition? A year ago, all we talked about was balance, not a word this time. About what? Because the budget is balanced: it is in structural balance and in nominal surplus. Do you know how many nominal surpluses there are? The nominal surplus is half a percent of GDP, 100+ million, plus structural balance. When we talk about monetary policy, the debates on these two-year budgets are completely different. I am actually very proud that the numbers on this table today reflect the vision of this coalition. Now a little bit of politics. There were three keywords in the previous elections in Fatherland: 'better education', 'better work' and 'better pay'. Of course, each coalition partner tries to give its best input to the budgets when implementing coalition policy. I don't think any coalition partner, including the Fatherland, has anything to be ashamed of. For us, certain keywords are important, which we see also being implemented in this coalition. In the meantime, there was a debate on structural reforms, whether this government is going to undertake any structural reforms. Come on, look what the government has done! We're talking about tax reform, we're talking about administrative reform... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U332	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U333	... we are talking about health reform, we are talking about continuing reform of the school network. Hey, you see how much this coalition has done in a short period of time! I think we have nothing to be ashamed of, and we'll see all this in next year's state budget. If you go deeper into policy, especially when viewed by the Fatherland, then education is certainly one of the priorities. We will see a number of important changes next year. We once promised free higher education, which has been implemented today. And we see that next year, things will be better in education in a number of important directions, starting with higher salaries for teachers. We expect the teachers' average wage to reach EUR 1 500. In addition, the salaries of kindergarten teachers will rise and more and more money will be devoted to R &amp; D. I think that very many political parties have the goal of reaching 1% at one time. We shouldn't be ashamed to see that nominal growth. Another important priority is certainly security for the Fatherland. This has been an important subject for the Fatherland of all time. Looking at next year's budget, again, I think the coalition has nothing to be ashamed of. In financial terms, the biggest contribution to security has been made over time, mainly EUR 585 million. This is over 2.1% of GDP. I think that in the debate on the next election campaign in the coming months, it would also be worth discussing whether this level could be increased by a percentage. The Fatherland's view is that this could be done. Certainly, the social sector is an important issue that I also wanted to mark. The well-being of children and families can be seen to improve. This is, once again, a subject in which it is a pleasure to see from the party itself that the birth rate of third children in particular has increased already this year. I believe that in 2019 we will see the continuation of this pattern. This has been the decision of this government coalition, and in 2019 the third child's support will continue to be exponentially increased. A few words about investment. We will see investments in the order of 5.9% of GDP next year, i.e. 1.1 billion. This represents 33 million more central government investments, which go to roads, transport, defence, information technology, school network, water infrastructure, etc. 1.1 billion investments, I don't think we need to be ashamed of that. Finally, we say: yes, coalition governments always have objects of dispute, including its state budget procedure. There's nothing weird about that. Of course, the government was arguing, but it was also agreed. Priorities are in place, targets are in place. So in that sense, we have nothing to be ashamed of. From the perspective of the Fatherland, I say that we are of the opinion that next year's state budget is responsible and growth-friendly and we do not have to be ashamed of it. We believe that this budget will take Estonia forward. Better education, better work and better pay! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U334	Thank you. Rocks Hard.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U335	Good vice chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, So it is the practice that, at first reading of the budget, as members of the Riigikogu, we hear the opposition's criticism of the budget presented by the government and are trying to remove this criticism from our side. But I must say that today's speech will be very short, because there is very little criticism from the opposition. Mr Jürgen made a speech, we have not heard the EKRE speech today, and Martin has also been relatively modest in the Commission. But, good Jurgen, I'll answer those questions for you. When we recall the budgetary procedure of recent years and the debates here in the Riigikogu, last year we spoke very quickly about the balance of the budget. And, as Sven said, this year, we will not hear about it, either hard or hard, because that is how the budget is in nominal surplus and structural balance. This is no great achievement for the Sots. We have always thought that sometimes it is necessary for the well-being of the people of Estonia to ensure a structural balance for long years, including that the budget is in nominal deficit for a few years. So we are willing to suffer the nominal budget deficit in a few years, so that our people's lives would be better, and that was the case this year. The same taxes. Taxes really do not rise, after all, the government has canceled a number of tax and excise increases that we had planned in the past. Javier asked me about it earlier. It is likely that everyone, not just Evgeny Ossinovski, has realized that the increase in alcohol duty has been a mistake. I know Evgeny Ossinovski. Don't worry, he's figured it out, too. In the context of budgeting, the problem has been revenue receipts, but we also understand that alcohol consumption as a whole is a problem in our society. Maybe no one else will understand. Speaking of this alcohol excise, the Reform Party held a public tax debate right here in this Chamber. The man we all know, Dmitri Egorov, when speaking before the Riigikogu, said that even if Estonian alcohol excises were lowered to Latvia's level, the flowing border trade would not disappear one hundred percent. And from today's Estonian Express, we read the same story that lowering alcohol excises alone will not help because Estonian merchants are too greedy. It should be clear to everyone that we are going to have a tax break on excise duties in the new year. And let's see how this thing goes. Now, whether the government's budget for the coming year will mean a year of ticking and shutting down the engine again. Dear friends, Sven has already mentioned a great deal of the reforms that the government has made here. The budget for the coming year will be, in many respects, the budget for the consolidation of these reforms. The Social Democrats have been in recent governments, where we have also been carrying out reforms, and the budget for the coming year will give us a great deal of joy in the heart. Good friends! Much has been said about this, but repeating it is very important: the reform of family benefits. We remember exactly how much child support was four years ago. New year's budget: first and second child allowance of EUR 60, third-child family allowance of EUR 520. Dear friends, this is not just some money that comes into someone's wallet, the same measure has brought Estonian children, Estonian families out of poverty. And having a lot of kids doesn't mean there's a lot of poverty around you. You have more joy in the family. This year, there has also been a support system for interest groups, which will be fixed by the budget for the coming year. Very many children have been able to take additional activities. There's more circles now, and the kids have gotten there better. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U336	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U337	So these are big things. Health reform: additional money has been put into shortening our treatment queues and improving our medical care. These are big things, and it's a shame if you don't notice them. But I hope that the same things will be noticed by the Estonian people and that they will understand that this is not just a one-year project, but that these things will continue. I can confirm one thing to Peter Ernits, who is not in this room right now. He asked if the savior's salary would rise to 1,000 euros. I've talked to the Minister of the Interior a lot, and he's assured me it's going to come up. Ernits also asked if the Salvation Board was going to take the money, if it was going on white collars. I also know Kuno Tammearu, and I know that he will certainly not allow it to be done. I dare say I'm pretty sure that the savior's wages, which have been very low for a very long time, will rise to EUR 1000. But it doesn't have to be bragging or enjoying yet. This salary will have to rise at the same rate in the years to come. Good friends! Jürgen, you asked whose budget it was. It is a public budget, because the aim is to make society more prosperous and caring. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U338	Thank you. Jürgen Ligi, speaking from the floor for up to two minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U339	Thank you. My name was named. The cliff was concerned that the balance was neither apprehensive nor apprehensive. Still was. I suggest you read my report first. And secondly, it was also said that, last time you bragged about how you are reviving the economy, you should be dealing with the surplus of this budget right now. After all, one method of balancing this budget was pressure on Eesti Energia. That's what we were talking about. There are no investments such as those written there, Eesti Energia will not be in the next annual plans. I did not criticise the fact that the amount of investment will be reserved and taken at the same time, it will happen in financial management. But this reserved investment money was only intended to improve the ratios of Eesti Energia after it was squeezed dry out of dividends. That's a fact. The plan was not to invest more, but to improve the financial relationship of the company.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U340	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U341	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, What do you say about this budget? It's not much. We can sit here and listen to coalition politicians and the Minister of Finance praising it to heaven. At the same time, if we look at the facts in which we are in the face, there is no reason for optimism: economic development is clearly going down, inflation and the cost of living are going up, there is no investment in Estonia. And if we look at this budget, which should aim to get our country and our economy going, we will not actually find anything that would allow us to develop. On the contrary, there are all kinds of foolishness, including the increase in excise duty, which has been very much discussed and in which there is no change whatsoever, there is no desire to reverse it in order for more money to flow into the treasury. This is not to be done, and we know the result. EKRE warned against all these negative consequences as early as 2015. You see, now we're stuck with them, and we're stuck in the next financial year. There is not much to talk about here, because, first of all, there are already a number of hours of questions that have been put today to the Minister for Finance who presented us with this budget, and unfortunately I have to say that, unfortunately, we did not receive an answer to most of these dozens or perhaps hundreds of questions. In addition, the Chancellor of Justice has clearly stated that the budget is opaque, it is impossible to understand, and even the explanatory memorandum is one that does not give any clear picture. Unfortunately, we are witnessing this process that, year after year, the budget is becoming increasingly confusing, increasingly complex, and increasingly difficult to understand. We do not have to go back to the times of the first Republic of Estonia, when the budget was really very simple: revenue-costs, plus-minus, and all signed up by ministries and expenses. Even after regaining independence, the budget was much more elusive and understandable, and no accountant education was needed. But now we see that more and more people are moving just so that no one can even ask. I guess that's the goal. Are you respectable coalition ambassadors familiar with all the nuances on this brick, plus other similar brick, unwritten by ministries? I don't see anyone nodding and saying he's up to speed. So we will certainly look at the opposition side and try to get even more of your hidden funding, all kinds of money from the roof, and just to buy out the voices when it has been done so far. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U342	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U343	I am absolutely convinced that this nearly 30 million, which has been discussed in the media, has been put in place before the elections for the purpose of purchasing votes. It is also the exploitation of its position of power, I would say, even abuse. In addition, under all kinds of ministries, Santa's budget, as you could call it and describe it, is even greater: giving money to all kinds of non-profit institutions and foundations for what purpose God knows. All this takes money away from important things, precisely those issues and issues that should be addressed. After all, many areas have been highlighted here today, where money is actually falling. So the fact that our budget is growing and everything is fine would be a pleasure here. However, if we know that much of this budget growth is going to be wasted, just pointless and simply to buy votes before the elections, then there is nothing to rejoice about. So, in any case, the Conservative People's Party is not happy with this budget and, in my understanding, no other opposition party is either. And what to deny here, in a private conversation, a lot of coalition politicians have said the same thing, although, of course, none of them say that in this remote control. The budget needs a very serious rethink, serious thinking, very big changes. And probably for the first time in Estonia's history, the situation is now such that it may even succeed. The coalition is quite crumbled and it is probably not worth waiting for all the people who have left coalition parties to fully support this budget. Indeed, we have not had this experience in practice yet, because not one of our proposals entered the previous three budgets. We very much hope that this will happen this time and that the voices and wishes of the opposition will, to some extent, hopefully be fully respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U344	Thank you. Does Mr Ernitsa have an address from office for up to two minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U345	Thank you. Yeah, because my name was used here. Thank you to Kalvi, who was more specific and said that the rescuers will still actually get the EUR 1 000. But there's another important moment. Mr Aas pointed out that the Committee on Economic Affairs had never discussed this budget. I'm afraid that's true. I don't know if this is normal, but it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U346	I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of the draft 700. I will set the deadline for the submission of 700 amendments, including 31 October at 5.15 p.m. First reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U347	Let's go to agenda item 8. First reading of Bill 705 amending the Income Tax Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Minister of Finance Toomas Tõniste, please waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U348	Good manager! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The draft law amending the Income Tax Act transposes the anti-tax evasion directive. The aim is to jointly take over measures in the European Union against the undermining of the OECD tax base and profit shifting (BEPS). 119 countries have joined the BEPS. The aim is to tax profits where it is earned. To this end, a general anti-abuse rule is introduced to prevent tax evasion, firstly, a general anti-abuse rule, secondly, taxation of residual borrowing costs, thirdly, income tax on exit, and fourthly, rules on controlled foreign companies. Under the general anti-abuse provision, income tax does not take into account transactions or a chain of transactions, one of the main objectives of which is to obtain a tax advantage and which is not real in all circumstances concerned. A transaction or chain of transactions shall not be considered to be actual unless it is created for real commercial reasons reflecting actual economic substance. The purpose of the taxation is to limit the erosion of the tax base and profit shifting through excessive interest payments. Since the traditional system allows the deduction of interest from taxable profits, large groups use tax planning to deduct interest in a high-rate country in order to reduce taxable profits in this way. In order to prevent profit shifting from a higher-tax country to a lower-tax country, the Directive limits the deduction of interest costs. Given the specific nature of the Estonian income tax system, i.e. the taxation of profits in its distribution, we cannot impose a limitation on the deduction of interest. Instead, the residual borrowing costs must be taxed in the same way as other non-business-related costs. According to the draft, the residual borrowing cost will be taxed at income tax if it exceeds EUR 3 million and 30% of the company's profit before interest, tax and depreciation in the financial year and the taxable amount of the interest cost exceeds the company's losses. Due to the three million euros limit, this change concerns only a few Estonian taxpayers. Similarly, financial corporations and companies which are not part of a group consolidated for financial reporting purposes and which do not have an associated undertaking or a permanent establishment are not required to pay income tax on the residual borrowing cost. In order to ensure that income earned in Estonia is subject to income tax in Estonia, property removed from Estonia is taxed on its removal from the head office of Estonia to a permanent establishment abroad and from the permanent establishment of Estonia to a head office abroad, on the change of the tax residence of the company, including the merger, division and removal of the company to a foreign country, and on the transfer of the business activities of the permanent establishment to another country. Only the taxation of property when it is removed from the Estonian head office to a permanent establishment abroad is new. In other cases, the removal of assets is also taxed under the current Income Tax Act. Income tax on the removal of assets concerns only the removal of assets between the head office and the permanent establishment and does not concern investments in a subsidiary company. Exempt cash shall be subject to income tax at the market value less the carrying amount of the asset. When an asset is removed to an EEA State, the income tax liability may be deferred for up to five years. The profits of a foreign controlled company are taxed on income tax in Estonia if the income is derived from apparent transactions whose main purpose was to obtain a tax advantage. The profits of a controlled foreign company shall not be taxed in Estonia if the profit of the controlled company in the previous financial year does not exceed EUR 750000 and other operating income, profits from subsidiaries, related companies and financial investments, interest income and other financial income in total do not exceed EUR 75000 during the same period. The adoption of the Bill reduces the possibilities for Estonian companies to circumvent taxation of profits earned in Estonia as well as for non-resident companies to use Estonia for tax evasion. The impact on the state budget is difficult to predict as it is anti-tax evasion provisions. The impact will therefore depend on the unpredictable behavioural effect of the entry into force of the new provisions and on the control activities planned by the Tax and Customs Board in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U349	Thank you, Minister of Finance. You have questions. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U350	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! I understand that one major problem that the bill is trying to solve is that the profits earned are being taken out in the form of loans, that profits are not being invested. The explanatory memorandum states that up to 19 companies are concerned. Does this also concern our Scandinavian banks? Can you point out the 19 companies or some examples that are affected? And how will this law, when it applies, affect them?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U351	Thank you. Yes, in this context, we were talking about this residual borrowing cost and those who pay high interest rates. Indeed, there are very few companies with this amount exceeding EUR 3 million. One of the most obvious examples, perhaps, is Eesti Energia, who would qualify.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U352	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U353	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, However, you did not answer that part of the previous question whether it could also concern the Scandinavian banks here. But my question concerns the purpose of the law, which in itself is positive: to tax the money or property that is being taken out for Estonia's benefit. The explanatory memorandum contains such an interesting sentence that the aim is to strengthen the average protection against aggressive tax planning. I'd like a more specific explanation. What is aggressive tax planning, which can still be expected, but what is average protection? Is there a right-hand and left-hand protection? What does that mean? It's gonna be unfathomable.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U354	Thank you. Yes, I will specify, in answer to the first part of the question, that it does not concern financial institutions. Rather, it is aimed at large groups that use different tax environments in different countries to "optimise" their revenues. Yes, the wording of the explanatory memorandum has been largely taken over from the so-called international language. I really don't know what exactly is meant by that mean. However, in any case, the aim is to prevent tax evasion, which exploits tax gaps and mismatches in different national tax systems. The aim is, however, that profits are taxed where they are earned.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U355	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U356	Good manager! Good waitress! It seems to me that this is a positive one, this transposition of the directive, but a partial transposition. The European Union, I am reading, will therefore receive EUR 50 to 70 billion in revenue. It has been said that this hole is about 300 million in Estonia. If we approve this bill, how much of this 300-million-dollar hole will we get into the state budget for more money?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U357	Thank you. It is really very difficult to assess this effect today. The IRS is doing their job. How much tax planning is there? In particular, there is a problem of so-called aggressive tax planning of these large groups from a European perspective. This is not a major problem in Estonia, as we know, but in order for us to be in one legal environment, it is useful for Estonia to take over in any case. Perhaps in a situation where a company leaves Estonia, the assets are valued and the book value is quite different from the actual market value, this amendment will help the Estonian state to obtain its legitimate share in the form of taxes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U358	Peter Ernits, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U359	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I still didn't understand. If the Tax and Customs Board says the hole is 300 million, how much is there still a chance of getting money into the budget? But I actually wanted to ask what is Article 9 of this directive on hybrid mismatches that we are not taking over.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U360	Thank you. In terms of the wording that this hybrid is meant to be, I am now indebted to the answer. But I'm sure I'm ready to clarify that. When we're talking about a tax hole, this tax hole is about 300 million. This means that Estonia's tax hole is small compared to other European countries. Our tax pit must be 5% of the possible taxes to be collected, and I think we are second or third in the European Union. Our IRS is doing a very good job.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U361	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U362	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! I am coming to the Tax and Customs Board, which should implement the directive and monitor its implementation. It has been pointed out here that the cost of implementing the Directive is EUR 300000 for the Tax and Customs Board. According to the explanatory memorandum, this concerns only changes to the declaration forms and adjustments to the information system. Does it really cost EUR 300000? Is it planned for one year, whether it is covered only by the Estonian taxpayer, or because it is the costs associated with the European Directive, it is also possible to apply for additional funding from some European funds?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U363	Thank you. I do not know whether it is possible to ask for additional funding from some funds for this, but as a rule, we have to make these costs from our own budget. Changing IT solutions is not cheap. Each such adjustment costs, but it certainly brings back the money. Today it might just be irresponsible to write down some specific numbers about how much it will bring us back.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U364	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U365	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. On a few previous issues, financial institutions were concerned and you said that this directive does not apply to financial institutions in the European Union. Can you explain to me if this isn't really about them, because they're okay, or if there's some sort of separate thing about them?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U366	Thank you. The financial sector already has a completely different regulation; they are under supervision. There's a lot tougher rules. In this sense, it is precisely these companies that are concerned. To a large extent, it is intended to prevent the so-called tax optimization of large groups.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U367	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U368	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, The introduction of the draft law states that non-residents are affected by this from natural taxpayers. Would you clarify how much this bill concerns tax deductions for natural persons taxpayers?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U369	Thank you. I can't numerically say right now, but those who operate across the border, especially those who have wanted to optimize or have done so, are certainly affected. How many are there? That's an answer I owe you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U370	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U371	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! You have just said a minute ago that financial institutions are subject to stricter rules than those contained in this directive. But how is it possible that, despite stricter rules, the income earned in Estonia has so far been taken away and probably will continue to be taken out of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U372	Thank you. Are we talking about the financial sector and this earlier concern when the money was taken out of Estonia as loans? I think that hole's been closed a year ago. There's no such easy way out.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U373	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U374	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I'm looking at this coordination table, which is on the last page of the explanatory memorandum. The only one who has had comments and suggestions is Eesti Energia. What does that mean? Didn't anyone else get an opinion, or didn't anyone else care about it, including Eesti Pank? Or is it not about anyone else? Why has only one company responded?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U375	Thank you. Yeah, they asked a lot of people. The opportunity to react was to put forward proposals. However, since the draft is aimed at large groups of companies, it does not concern a very large number of companies in Estonia. I guess those who might be affected, who want to optimize taxes, didn't have the courage to come forward. I don't know. But it's a good point that interest was lukewarm. The draft itself is very technical and complex, but perhaps it had a role to play.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U376	Mr. Minister, there are no further questions for you. I would like to ask Priit Sibula, member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, to act as rapporteur for the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U377	Mr Kalle Laanet, Vice-President of the Riigikogu! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, We in the Commission were honoured and pleased to discuss this draft on 8 October when Mr Tõniste, the Minister who spoke before me, presented the draft and the proposals at the committee meeting. The Commission also had Lemmi Oro, Head of the Tax Policy Department, and Inga Klauson, Chief Specialist. The main aim of the bill is to reduce the possibilities for Estonian companies to evade taxation of profits earned in Estonia and also the opportunities for non-residents to benefit from the Estonian income tax system. It has to be acknowledged that many of the issues that have been raised here have also been addressed by the Commission. I asked the question put by Henn Põllea in the Commission myself. In the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, which I met with the Bureau last week, I asked whether they had come forward with the draft and submitted their proposals. They said that they did not have any proposals for the draft, but they were aware of the draft. However, the debate that was still taking place in the Commission was first about what the residual cost of borrowing is. We received, in response, that if interest costs exceed interest income, then the remainder is the borrowing costs that we will tax on the basis of this bill in the future. Secondly, we talked about how many companies this concerns, which also went through the questions here. Indeed, it concerns 19 companies. Eesti Energia mainly responded to this, and there was no so-called positive feedback to its questions. Why the financial corporations was asked this by colleagues Külliki Kübarsepp and Andres Herkel, financial institutions are excluded. It was already answered here that since they are subject to different rules and because financial institutions are mainly involved in issuing loans, they simply cannot be dealt with under the exact same rules as other undertakings, they have specific rules. We discussed, on the basis of examples, that if a group operates in Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania and pays out profits in Lithuania, what happens then. The question was whether it was a subsidiary or a site. There's a difference. Does the draft limit the possibilities for Estonian companies to invest abroad? In the case of subsidiaries, they shall not be restricted. We asked what a permanent establishment was, and we got the answer that it was basically a branch. Why is the regulation of this draft different from the current regulation of the so-called 'fake transaction'? In response, we have found that the only objective of the current rule must be to obtain a tax advantage, but in the case of this draft it is sufficient that one of the objectives is to obtain a tax advantage. Danske's theme went through. A question was asked about defining the concept of a group in tax law. In reply, we found that the group is not defined in Estonian tax law, but it is defined in the Commercial Code. Stakeholder involvement and contributions in kind were mentioned. We learned that the draft does not directly concern this area. If the assets installed in the company are taken out by reducing the share capital, there will be no change here either. Then there was an example of a transaction for the purpose of obtaining an additional tax advantage, where we described that if the real purpose of the Estonian company is to invest in Brazil, Estonia does not have a double taxation agreement with Brazil, and the Estonian company invests in Portugal, the only aim of which is actually to invest in Brazil, that then it can be treated as a problem in this context and described as the real purpose of investing in it from Estonia. This was about what Mr Ernits was asking the Minister here, Article 9 of the directive, which we are not yet taking over. We received an answer from the Commission that it concerns hybrid mismatches when something is treated as a dividend in one country, for example, but as an interest in the other, and, ultimately, double non-taxation may happen. But like I said, we don't deal with that in the bill. We reached consensus that the first reading of the draft could be completed and that we would wait until 5.15 p.m. on 31 October. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U378	Thank you, dear waitress Priit Sibul. No questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 705. I will set the deadline for submitting draft 705 amendments, including 31 October at 5.15 p.m. The first reading is closed and the item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U379	Let's go to item number nine. First reading of the draft law amending the Law on Investment Funds initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws 717. Minister of Finance Toomas Tõniste, please waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U380	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Estonia is a country with an ageing population and it puts financial pressure on our social security schemes. These schemes therefore need to be further analysed, improved and revised if necessary. In the proceedings of the Riigikogu, there is already a draft reformating the pensions of the first pillar and a new draft amending the funded pensions initiated by the Government of the Republic has been added to it, which I will introduce below. The draft submitted to you is based on an analysis prepared at the Ministry of Finance in the spring of this year. The analysis assessed the existing investment results of pension funds, analysed the cost structures and fees of the funds. 700000 people contribute to the 23 pension funds managed by the five management companies. The second pillar has accumulated EUR 4 billion. There are still few beneficiaries in the second pillar. As of last year, approximately 30000 people have been paid money out of the second pillar, with a total of over EUR 50 million. What has happened in recent years is that five low-paid so-called index funds have been added to the market, which has diversified the range of funds. Investment in the Estonian economy has also doubled over the last two years: from 5 to 10 to 11 per cent of the volume of funds. One of the critical conclusions of the analysis was that although the current regulation forces the funds to lower their fees as the volumes increase, they are still too high. The fees vary considerably in the funds, ranging from 0.29% to 1.46%, with an average remuneration of 1%. Given that the OECD countries have an average pension fund fee of 0.6%, there is scope for lowering fees. Another problematic issue is investment in funds. In the last decade, they have been quite conservative. About one third of the fund's volume has been invested in the stock markets and therefore no more has been received from the stock market. The reasons for this are complex, and there has probably been a role here both in the competitive situation and in regulation. High fees and non-productive investments bring us to the main concern, which is the low rate of return on second pillar pension funds. Apart from conservative pension funds, the nominal yield of the best performing funds is over 6% and the real yield around 4% and the nominal yield of the worst performing funds is less than 3% and the real yield is barely negative. The average nominal yield of the funds is estimated to be 3.8% in the early years of the system and 0.8% in real terms. These are not satisfactory numbers. During the same period, Estonia's nominal GDP growth has been 7.5%, real GDP growth has been 3.2% and the pension for the first pillar has increased 8.8%. Therefore, the draft proposal submitted to you offers amendments aimed at improving the productivity of the second pillar pension funds. The legislator can support the growth of the second pillar's return by bringing the second pillar funds' fees down. The bill will bring the average government fee from the current 1% to 0.6% by the end of next year. To this end, the limit on the government fee laid down by law must be reduced from 2% to 1,2%. We want pension fund fees to be low, but, on the other hand, we do not want to prevent more complex investments, especially domestic ones, from taking place. The second fundamental change in fees is that the level of remuneration charged to unit-holders will be partly dependent on a return. The bill allows the pension fund manager to receive a success premium higher than 1.2% if the fund's investment results are good, i.e. certain investments have paid off to the unit-holder. In order to be eligible for success pay, the pension fund's long-term return must exceed the increase in the share of social tax pension insurance. On the basis of the results of recent years, this means a rate of return about twice as high as it has been in the past. Production depends on the strategy of the funds and investment decisions and the investment restrictions imposed by the law affecting them. The draft will give pension funds more flexibility in shaping the investment policy of the second pillar funds. The restrictions on investment in shares are removed and the pension fund can continue to invest in 100% of the shares. Pension funds will also be able to make larger amounts of real estate investment and other non-market and less liquid investments suitable for long-term pension funds. These changes also support Estonia's investments. Pension collectors wishing to take less risks will be left with conservative pension funds, which will be allowed to invest 10% in shares. The draft under discussion does not only concern the second pillar. It transposes the Occupational Pensions Directive into Estonian law. The transposition of the Directive does not affect the collection of pensions in Estonia, because we do not have any special employer pension funds that are regulated by the Directive. The contributions made by employers on behalf of their employees to the third pillar are not affected either. The amendments concerning the second pillar fees and investments shall enter into force on 1 January 2019. The amendments concerning the transposition of the Directive shall enter into force on 13 January 2019. These are the amendments to the draft under discussion. Thank you for your attention and please support the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U381	Questions for the initiator of the draft. Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U382	Thank you. Good Minister of Finance! I am quite pleased that you have taken up the necessary fine-tuning with this draft rather than taking a radical stagnation engine attitude, as would your party chairman, Helir-Valdor Seeder sitting on my left hand. But my question concerns this concern, which has been highlighted by both the Financial Supervision Authority and some market participants. According to their warning, the payment of a premium on a very high-bound return may involve a certain, say, moral risk if a short-term profit is to be made quickly and therefore risks are taken, which may have a negative impact in the long term. The concerns of the Financial Supervision Authority were not mentioned in the Commission. Why don't you explain why you said no?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U383	Thank you. The Financial Supervision Authority must draw attention to the potential risks and this draft has taken them into account. Why are we talking about success pay today? On the one hand, we want and want investment fund fees to be lower. If we do so by force, we would actually, to a large extent, stop investing in Estonia because they are more costly. There is a lot of work to be done here, there is a need to look at the background of the companies in which the pension fund invests or whose bonds it issues, etc. At the same time, there has always been a desire and a perception or concern that we need to find a common part, we all want productivity, but at the same time we are punishing it. I think this bill is a very good result, actually no one is being punished. Those who allow productivity will also have the opportunity to earn if they succeed. But the biggest winners are, in any case, pensioners. In order to make a success pay, a return of more than 8% is basically needed, so-called economic growth is needed. It's a big challenge, but we're not talking about one year, we're talking about a long time horizon. It's not like one year I took out the money and disappeared.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U384	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U385	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. Lately, I've heard a word like "the mind of a peasant" a few times. It's not used by any, say, practitioners, but by economic theorists. It also uses an expression such as 'the application of the principle of understanding to investment'. That sounds good. Surprisingly, the application of this principle creates a situation where the money of these pension funds can also be invested in Estonian real estate. So far, Swedish pension funds have made investments in the Estonian forest, as far as I know. How much interest do you expect from pension funds in investing in Estonia's assets, especially in real estate?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U386	Thank you. This interest exists because people working in local pension funds are best informed about the local market. However, there has always been criticism that the assets of our pension funds are moving abroad and we ourselves have to borrow from elsewhere. I am very much in favour of the possibility of investing in Estonia being better than before and the funds having a more free hand, and there are still restrictions on regulations so that no one takes too great a risk.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U387	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U388	Good manager! Waitress! By believing that the rescuers will actually receive EUR 1 000 on average from the new year and that the pay of teachers will rise a little, explain clearly how their future pension will improve if we approve this directive 2341.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U389	Thank you. I was afraid we'd get back to excise duty, but fortunately we didn't. This has a direct impact in this respect on the fact that the level of remuneration is very directly linked to the size of the pension in the future. However, the rate of return is what we all really expect, so that the value of the money invested in time is not reduced, but rather increased. The main problem has been that the return on the funds is too low. As I said before in my speech, it relates to the restrictions that were imposed, but maybe it is also linked to a too conservative attitude. Let's look at the long trend. These funds, which have invested more in shares, have been significantly more successful than those that have invested in government bonds, etc. Now they're giving you a freer hand. I very much hope that these changes will also enable the funds to achieve greater returns, which will have a positive impact on people's pensions in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U390	Thank you. I, too, hope that this will have a positive effect. But here's the question. In 2015, when this formation began, I asked the Minister at the time how this was possible and whether we could do nothing about the fact that these funds were held by the same banks in Estonia, but the cost of the funds and the fees were significantly higher and productivity was significantly lower than in Sweden, for example. Can't we do something about that? They said you couldn't. I'm just curious that if it turns out we actually can, then what's the problem been so far?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U391	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U392	Thank you. One of the problems is the small size of our country. Perhaps, at the beginning, these higher fund fees were justified because of the need to rebuild the pension fund. The start is certainly much more expensive, especially if you want to offer better productivity. The second approach is what has come to this market in recent years; it is these so-called index funds. In essence, the fund itself does not have much of a cost; this money is simply reinvested in the index fund and that is it. In Sweden, this model was widely used and also had opportunities to invest in potentially too risky instruments. There has also been a slight restriction of this excessive freedom because there have been problems. But I think the draft is based on the fact that it has looked at the best practices in different countries and also on the side of not punishing our funds. If we think that productivity is very good, then the question arises immediately, but why is there no competition in our market, why is competition not working here, why is there no more players than it is possible to become so easily rich here? Nor would I rely on looking at the profits of funds or banks rather to see that the return is higher in the future. Those who work hard and are able to offer better returns will have the opportunity to reward themselves. But there's also a roof in front, more than 2% of this fee definitely can't go.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U393	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U394	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The limit for investing in shares in mandatory pension funds was 50%. This draft law amends this threshold and raises it to 75%. Why 75%? How and with what considerations did this come about?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U395	Thank you. This has been done in the light of the analysis that has been carried out by communicating with our pension funds in order to clarify what thresholds might be, so that they are as conservative as possible, but at the same time they can give enough freedom to achieve better returns. The practice of other countries, such as Sweden, shows that young people who do not want or do not want to choose their own fund are automatically merged with equity funds because they have been the most productive on the long horizon of time. Young people expect productivity. Our problem was that we had too limited it ourselves. We demand productivity, we talk about concern, but in fact we may not be able to achieve productivity enough. Here's what's left of conservative funds. Just because they are given the opportunity to invest in 10% of the shares doesn't mean they have to use it. People also need to look for themselves, according to how risky they are, which fund to choose from. When they grow older and do not want to take any more risks, they can move more conservatively from the active fund. All these opportunities are there.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U396	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U397	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! If you browse this coordination table, which is quite long and thorough, you will find various criticisms. Perhaps in the strongest possible way, Rain Lõhmus, who compares the fees that are to be imposed, even with the progressive income tax. But there are a number of proposals that would further increase the opportunities to invest in the Estonian economy. For example, the Chamber of Commerce points out that, thanks to previous changes, there has been a positive trend and, as a percentage, investments in the Estonian economy have almost doubled, but they are still only 11% of the volume of pension funds. At the same time, the same proposal states not to be taken into account. Why was it not possible to take such proposals more into account?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U398	Thank you. In addition to this analysis, a number of possible solutions were discussed. Rain Lõhmus's criticism was just about one possible option proposed by LHV Pank itself. I admit there was this contradiction that I've been talking about for a long time. All claimed that in fact the fees could be lower. But at the same time, there was the expectation that we would still not restrict those who wanted to contribute to their people, their knowledge and skills and who promised us a return, will allow the people who chose their fund a high rate of return. I think that, in cooperation with Rain Lõmmus, we have received today's solution, and this is an opportunity. Those of you who are willing to bet millions of dollars that they're so-called economic growth don't want to bet, but, please, do it. If they do, they have the right to be paid for success. Does the fund take it or doesn't it take it? Several funds have said they won't charge a success fee. It's the fund's own decision. Still, since the time horizon is longer, when you hit that "benchmark" one year doesn't mean you're about to go get that fee, because if you fall down next year, you're breaking the rules. You still have to look at the long horizon.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U399	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U400	Good manager! Good waitress! Interesting reading. I'm not gonna ask you about the details, but we're gonna come back to the firefighters or the rescuers who are gonna get 1,000 euros next year. If we approve of this directive in this form, all this productivity and giving free hands is, of course, a beautiful story, then how many euros will the firefighter who is going to receive EUR 1000 increase his pension, say, in 30 years' time?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U401	Thank you. I'm going to make a little bit of a clarification right now. When I was presenting the previous draft here, when I really said that we have transposed the directive, this draft is not related to the directive. It's a domestic change. Yes, one part is related to the directive, it is a 'employer pension'. In that sense, it's all right. But, as I said, today it does not affect us because we do not have such funds and employers pay the third pillar for the employee. Nothing's gonna change there. I don't have precise calculations here, but I'm sure you can model pensions for one, two or three productivity. These calculations certainly exist and can be obtained if desired. I wouldn't be happy to do the math myself right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U402	There are no further questions for the initiator of the bill. Thank you, Minister of Finance Toomas Tõniste! The rapporteur of the Monetary Commission is Vice-President of the Commission, Taavi Rõivas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U403	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Finance discussed this draft at the meeting of the Commission on 11 October and, as the representative of the initiator, presented it to us by Siiri Tõniste, Head of the Insurance Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance. I will repeat a few important things about the content of the draft. First of all, the aim of the draft is to increase the productivity of the second pillar pension funds by reducing statutory pension fund fees, as well as broadening the investment opportunities of pension funds. The European Union directive on the employer's pension fund is also transposed into Estonian law. So I would also like to clarify the questions that have been raised here, for example, on the question of Mr Ernitsa, that not all this draft is linked to the transposition of the directive, there are also political choices that have been made as a result of the analysis that was completed in 2018. We discussed this issue separately in the Commission, whether it is good or not, but we admitted and accepted that, since the date of the end of Parliament's work is close enough, it is probably not practical to come up with two procedural proposals, as would normally be logical. Usually, changes and policy choices relating to the Directive are kept in two separate drafts so that one does not start to hold the other back. The cap on the remuneration of the second pillar pension funds will fall from the current 2% to 1.2% of the value of the pension fund's assets. The management fee for the conservative pension fund is still 1.2%. According to the draft, if good investment results are achieved, a success fee may be charged as part of the management fee. That's what the minister was talking about. To do this, there was little inaccuracies in the Minister's speech, rather than overcoming economic growth, the pension fund's return must exceed the increase in the share of social tax pension insurance. Perhaps, in essence, the question is that if wages in Estonia increase and the number of people employed also increases, they both contribute to the fact that this "criterion" or this latte, which would also allow for success pay, is higher. The Minister was absolutely right that it is now around 8%. Perhaps if investments can be made more cost-effectively than 8%, this premium will apply. For example, in 2020 the success rate could be charged for the results achieved in 2019. The bill, as the Minister rightly said, reduces investment restrictions on pension funds. Funds that invest 100% in shares will also be allowed in the future. As a side note, if I may say so, the financial crisis has taught me that often bonds that have seemed to be very safe so far may not always be the safest. Perhaps very, let's say, a conservative picture of the various asset classes that were so far, was somewhat confused during the financial crisis and the debt crisis in the countries that followed. Nevertheless, such a change has been proposed. The concept of a conservative pension fund is also maintained, but the draft also allows these funds to invest in shares and do so up to 10% of their volume. Under current law, they have no such right at all. In addition, the second pillar funds will be allowed to make larger amounts of real estate investment. There was quite a lot of talk about this in the committee, too, which, according to the members of the committee, could theoretically also support investment in Estonia. According to the draft, the value of one immovable property may be 10% instead of the current 5% of the fund's volume. In addition, the restriction allowing investment in all immovable property up to 10% of the assets of the pension fund will be removed. The draft, as has already been said, also transposes the European Union Directive, in particular as regards the activities and supervision of occupational retirement provision institutions. The Directive amends the management requirements applicable to the employer's pension funds and informs pension collectors. In order to inform pension collectors, a mandatory pension notification shall be introduced. It provides information on how much money has been collected from the employer's pension scheme and how much a worker can expect from this scheme. Of course, it is also true that there is no such fund in Estonia as it stands. It cannot therefore be said that this part of the directive has any immediate practical effect. At the same time, it can be assumed that in the future, occupational pensions will also become more topical in Estonia. Employers' contributions to the third pillar are not affected by the transposition of the Directive. In addition to what I said in the course of this discussion, the following issues were addressed in the Commission. I have already said that the question of success pay was addressed as well as whether the draft could take over political changes. It was in this context that success fees were discussed that if we set a rather high bar from which the return on the investment has to jump, would there not be a moral risk of investing in projects that are profitable in the short term, but at the same time very risky. As the Minister confirmed in this Chamber today, and so the Siiri Tõniste assured us in the Commission that investment returns will still be seen for a long time, and such one-off bright jitters will not bring great rewards. Yes, these were the main issues mentioned in the Commission. We made, of course, procedural decisions: to send the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by Wednesday, 17 October and consensually we proposed that the first reading be stopped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U404	Questions for the Commission rapporteur. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U405	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Commission waitress, Here's the question. One of the reasons why we are dealing with this bill here in the Riigikogu today is that the government fees are among the highest among the pension fund management fees of OECD countries. In the world, too, the overall level of government fees is lower. Does this reduction put us in a much better position? Is there any way to say it, or is there any way to describe it?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U406	Good question. This is not what we really discussed in the Commission, and I do not have the comparative data available either. But, let's say, from 2% to 1,2% this is a significant decrease, that's 40% of the fees. So it could be assumed that this will also have an impact on Estonia's position among other countries. The fact is, of course, that the final estimates can probably only be made ex post by the OECD, as there are several components. Today, we do not know whether and how much, for example, this success fee, which we have already talked about quite a bit about here, will apply. But I believe that, in fact, market participants understand and accept this as a principle that, if we have had very high fees, then inevitably steps must be taken to bring them down. Of course, this must be done in such a way as not to unduly damage the activities of pension funds, precisely in the sense that they do not go down the path of lighter resistance and invest more passively. There must be different funds, including those who invest passively, but we must also be able to choose funds that are more actively managed every day.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U407	No further questions. Thank you, Javier. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. First reading of Bill 717 is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 31 October.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U408	The following is the first reading of the draft law amending the Vocational Training Institution Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws (704 SE). The initiator's waitress is the Minister of Education and Science Mailis Reps. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U409	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I will introduce you to the draft law amending the Vocational Training Institution Act and related amendments to other laws, which, as the President of the Riigikogu said, is called 704 SE. For years, we have been talking about the importance of vocational training and its significance in the labour market today and in the future. Several dreams and wishes to change the law of a vocational training institution, to make this form of study more flexible, have been mentioned both in this Chamber and at several events and very much also in the Committee on Culture. That's why I'm glad to know that the bill is in front of you. The main task of the draft is to make training provision for VET institutions more responsive to the needs of both the state and the region and to be able to respond more effectively to changing educational demands, as well as to expand flexible access for students and groups of students to advanced education. The aim is also to modernise the process of assessing the content and quality of vocational training. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! As the first major change compared to the current regulation, I would like to highlight a change in the principles of financing vocational training. Perhaps the most attention has so far been paid to the abolition of a national training order. From now on, schools will be able to respond more flexibly to both educational demand and labour market needs in the region and throughout Estonia. In doing so, the autonomy and responsibility of schools for training professionals will increase. The funding of schools from the state budget will be provided with an operating grant divided into basic and performance funding. Basic funding will ensure stability in the performance of the tasks assigned to the school, and the school budget will no longer depend solely on the number of students. The task of performance funding is to motivate schools to carry out their main task successfully. Another important change is the expansion of access to advanced education for different study groups. After all, we know that many people need a career change, given the constant change in labour market demand. VETs will be given the opportunity to open curricula which are not directly related to professional training but also to preparing for the choice of subjects, which are so-called "professional selection curricula." This is particularly necessary for the target group, who has not chosen, wants or is not yet able to decide, and needs both time and more information to be able to orientate. Many young people have not yet been able to study, but some have made the wrong choice and later interrupted their studies in vocational training or upper secondary school. Such training shall include practical studies introducing different disciplines and, where appropriate, fine-tuning training with general educational content. VET institutions will also be given the opportunity to organise general education in a non-statorial form for target groups who have reached compulsory school age. The amendment will be implemented by a well-established network of vocational training institutions covering all counties and ensuring access to education. Students who have chosen general education will in future also have the opportunity to take optional courses from professional study modules, which will support further informed career choices and allow for the implementation of the acquired course. From the perspective of the learner of secondary education, the proposed change will support future school lunch support. We remove the age limit (20 years) and in the future all students in a non-secondary inpatient form will also receive school lunch allowance. As a third major change, we will replace the quality assessment process of the current accreditation system, which will support the implementation of the principles of better design assessment and the development of a supportive learning environment. If the school currently has the right to conduct open-ended studies in the curriculum group, it will receive practical feedback in the quality assessment process to improve both the learning process and the organisation of studies at least once every six years. If the school does not currently have the right to complete an open-ended study, it will have a certain time to make changes. With the proposed amendment, we will achieve a situation where schools are more motivated to receive feedback on the quality of learning, as well as to continuously develop the content and effectiveness of learning. We will also change the terms and conditions of the teacher's application for the teacher's starting allowance in the VET institution. Similarly to the amendment to the Basic School and Upper Secondary Schools Act, we will also create the possibility of starting support for support specialists in vocational training. Unlike those provided for in the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, the conditions for access to the initial vocational teacher allowance were extended in a way that leaves a teacher who had started working in a vocational school for a longer period of time to decide whether to choose teacher training at higher education level or to prove his qualifications during the course of the three years by obtaining a vocational certificate. Teachers and support specialists who start working in vocational education institutions in Tallinn and Tartu can also apply for starting support in the future. The starting grant for start-up support specialists and teachers is EUR 12783 and will be paid out in one section from 1 September 2020. Mr President, the introduction is done. I'm looking forward to the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U410	Questions for the initiator of the draft. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U411	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, thank you for the substantive and very vivid presentation of the draft law. My question concerns the issue raised by the Confederation of Employers, as the opening and use of curricula will become more flexible - in other words, more in line with employers' wishes - with this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U412	Thank you for a very good question. We have had a great deal of cooperation with our employers on this draft. The draft itself was born as a result of several years of discussions. First of all, employers have a desire for faster decisions to be made about curricula, and in fact it is not a matter of sometimes in curricula, sometimes they would rather that even before the curriculum has been decided on, certain practical steps can already be taken. That is what it takes for a vocational school to have the courage first and have the right to exercise its right to self-determination with this bill. Second, base money. Within his own budget, he can be a little more flexible. This is crucial because today there has been a training order plus every head and these extra heads have not been financed. How much more flexibility will the system now be? Currently, the fastest curriculum process takes about two years, but it is more common to have four years. The expectation is that we can start right now, for example, we are already working on apprenticeships, so we are doing it right now. Will the curriculum process be significantly shorter than two years? We are working in this direction, but I do not dare to say it today because there are very specific rules in place. How many of these rules can we relax or go through together? Rather, the question is that, if you look at the curriculum process in vocational education, you can see that these schemes are very narrow. There were once very broad curricula, but now it's very, very narrow on a professional basis. In fact, all parties understand that they should be made at least half-wide again. This draft does not change directly, it is an important part of Innove's curriculum process, but steps have been taken to make it, however, more flexible, at least on a sectoral basis. On the other hand, when speaking about the curriculum, it must be said that employers are also a little concerned, that if the school is going to have full freedom and the opening up of the curriculum becomes too much fun, what will become of those specialties that are enormously necessary to society, but which will have to work very hard, and young people must be persuaded to learn these specialties, to bring them to practice. It is no secret that, for example, the metalworking industry is still looking for young people with a fire match. Employers are very concerned that now, as we see in the case of universities, if the school no longer has a duty to deal with some of the a bit more annoying specialties that society needs enormously, then they will all be offering something exciting, such as ICT or something else that young people still want to learn. That's why there's not a lot of flexibility in the curriculum. We want to give enough flexibility, but still, since these are public schools, we are dealing very clearly with the needs of the labour market, not by giving too much freedom. So I can't tell you if it's going to be a very fast process for the curriculum itself, but we're giving it a chance to take certain steps before it does.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U413	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U414	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! We had a long and long meeting yesterday in the Committee on Economic Affairs with the leaders of the Employers' Association. They've come to show you their great plan. When I started picking up from them, how much they see in the implementation of this big, big development plan, whether they pay scholarships or order any specialty in vocational schools, pay for a third or 50%, so that they would be trained some kind of workforce or some kind of skilled workers, then they became very kida-speaking and wanted to roll everything on top of the country. Has the Employers' Association, their Representation and their Board made offers to the Ministry their financial and, let's say, know-how share in the implementation of this project? Or they just want to give advice and point out why you're not doing...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U415	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U416	...and that's all we're talking about? Are they really involved in this?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U417	Thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U418	Thank you. The very precise question in the sense that the role of employers in vocational education cannot be underestimated in this draft either. Yesterday we opened a robotics lab at Tallinn Industrial Education Centre. Anyone who wants to see a change in their vocational education, I suggest you visit them. Director Paul Alekand will be happy to welcome you and show you what vocational education means today. Why did I give this lab an example? It is very clear that there is cooperation with employers. There's ABB, there's Mitsubishi. The representative of Mitsubishi in Estonia has helped with robotics, there is a loader, there are several other smart things. It has to be said that yesterday, too, there was the idea that employers were very different. There are employers who really have a soul for the matter and say that their interest is that there is a primary base in vocational education to help them work together. Some do it for free, some do it for a price. Opportunities are being sought to expand traineeships. This is also the reason why employers' representative organisations, especially the Chamber of Commerce, have taken the issue of internship and recognition for it well under discussion. Traineeships are an integral part of vocational education and training; they must be very good practice. Not all entrepreneurs are interested in it, not all employers are interested in it, but those who do it do it super well. Feedback's good. To sum it up. We expect employers to be represented in the curriculum development area in connection with this bill. We want them to be in charge of the school. We want them to formulate as precisely as possible what they want to play a strong role in apprenticeship training and job-based learning, so that they are vigorously engaged in traineeships. Of course, together we need to think about the next step, together with the state, local authorities and the region, but also very clearly employers. We have renovated a large number of schools in vocational education for European money, we have very good educational bases. Last year, this year and next year, or 2017, 2018 and 2019, there has been a great deal of emphasis on buying simulators. Vocational education has come with really good and fun new tools. But we cannot keep up with the needs of the labour market as quickly as technology changes. So in any case, we're starting to look more and more at employers and say, if you want to have a smart packing system, bring us a sample of the packing system. If you want some kind of mechatronic capin, for example, we have one. Come see if it needs to be updated, if new software is needed. In fact, we are increasingly looking at the employer because we are not always able to buy funds with taxpayers' money alone. At least we need to involve just as many employers. What's the readiness? There is very good cooperation at the level of the central alliances, there is very warm cooperation in the regions, but the capacity to invest in vocational education varies widely. Regarding traineeships, I would say that, unfortunately, it is not always the understanding that mentoring traineeships is actually in the interests of employers themselves. But it's gotten a lot better, too. So I would say that cooperation is good, but the expectations that will happen in the future are even greater.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U419	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U420	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister! In the Committee on Culture, we have been discussing vocational education on many occasions. One of the points we have reached is that the VET base is now organised and, at times, very good, but what we have not been able to change in a desirable direction in society and in the public is the reputation of vocational education. In fact, there are many different points in this bill, all of which should bring about some change for VET learners and teachers there. Do you see any of these desirable changes that contribute to improving reputation?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U421	Thank you. A very important question. Let's start with whether and how much we can do with the legislative framework to eliminate the problem of why we do not go to vocational education. First of all, I will tell you what is the biggest change that will be made to this law. We all actually understand that almost half of the students in vocational education today are 25+ or 21+, but the majority are 25+ or adult students. Vocational education has had to adapt substantially to it and has done so in a way that everyone has learned and furthered themselves. Now is the time for the laws to follow: the same flexible learning and module-based learning. Step by step, you're gonna have to put these blocks together and then get a full education out of it. If we bring more uneducated adults into vocational education and create better opportunities for them, all of this actually shows that we need to follow the laws. Certainly, one very large locomotive in the case of reputation has also been that when an adult arrives, he takes his young relatives with him. Apprenticeships, job-based and apprenticeship-based learning also improves reputation. But what is interesting is that everyone who is objectively or subjectively exposed to vocational education by being on the employer's side, being involved in some way or even going to courses themselves (we still have 25000 different courses each year), has a good opinion of vocational education, if not very good, then positive. Rather, they come back and say that they are positively surprised. It is important that we continue with this. Another thing we have discussed in the Committee on Culture is the expectation that a young person, and especially his parents and neighbours, would have different choices when a young person enters vocational education: he should be able to go from there to university or higher education. That's what we need to draw out better. So far it has been that in high school, everyone understands it, even if you are not capable enough, there exists such a belief. Here comes the statistics that almost 20% of upper secondary school graduates do not go on to higher education. Clearly, these young people are most likely to choose the wrong field of education. Let's look at these percentages. 25.26% go to vocational education; the rest go largely out of it very little in upper secondary school. However, after graduating from upper secondary school, 20% will not go on. In fact, we get the same relationship as most Nordic countries and elsewhere in Europe: about 50: 50. So, in fact, if we dare to go back to the subject of applied higher education, how it is possible to calmly reach out to a university of higher education after the blocks of vocational education, that is, I believe, the most important change in reputation. That's what employers ask. They want to get a person who actually knows how to work, and then they give him a chance to get more education. Why did I give you this lab here for example? This is exactly what this lab is showing. A young person comes from middle school, maybe he has no idea what he's going to study. Then he gets fooled into milk and is given more internship all the time. Then comes computer science, he learns computer language, then he learns robotics and can become a configurator. Basically, it's the same education you get at college. If we put these college modules together again and these roads are no longer such silo towers, I think it's a huge change. I understand there's a lot of anxiety at universities that now vocational schools are all coming to college, but this is something we need to think through together calmly. The law of higher education is coming to this hall. I hope in a few weeks we can discuss this together. If we think these things through together in the Committee on Culture, maybe this is what we can do most about our reputation.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U422	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U423	Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, With this reputational issue, the indicators (eight pieces) that you want to measure in 2021 are likely to relate here to the purpose of the law. For example, I understood from the previous response that the rate of comprehensive school graduates continuing in vocational education should be increased from 25% to 35% in a few years. How realistic is that, and what about these other indicators? For example, you set a target of less than 20%. How many of these interruptors are there now, and what do you think about the employment rate that you want or we want to achieve that would be at least 82%?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U424	Thank you. Indicators are quite ambitious, but realistic. First of all, as far as the drop-out is concerned, one in three young people falls out and it is clearly too much. I think we have a pretty good record of why they're leaving and what's happened. The reason why such a broad-based year has been introduced here, not just one professional year, is that if a young person goes to study a specialty just unfortunately, despite all his efforts, it may happen that he has no idea what he is actually going to study and, in his first internship, that this area is not suitable for him at all, that he would not leave school, but would fall into that network. Perhaps he would have a year of orientation if he and his supervisor were to be sought out for a new specialty, shown different options, supported. Another reason why the dropout rate is still, let's say, unacceptablely high, is that if we are in primary school step by step so far that if a child cannot cope or has a problem, then we try to support him because of his abilities, up to individual education, but there is a very flexible and individual approach in vocational education only for children with special needs and children who go to vocational education still have to cope quite independently. That's another reason we need this year. The child can be supported more, because then there are smaller groups, we can really deal with it individually. The third thing is that we are trying to show him the opportunities of the labour market through internships. In this wider year, there is also a great deal of emphasis on practice. We take a young person to different jobs and together we find a suitable job for him. So it's pretty realistic. Now, from some other indicator. You mentioned employment. There's a lot of interest again. If we have helped these young people, along with their employers, to graduate from school, then now, at the time of lack of work, in principle, any young person who receives a proper professional qualification should find a job. The same again: an ambitious but completely realistic indicator. If a person doesn't go to work or doesn't go to study, then we've either chosen the wrong specialty for him or there's another problem. This is for example the case for this indicator. What was the third indicator you mentioned? Help me! What was the third one? [[A voice from the hall.]] Yeah, it's a head start for middle school graduates. Basically, I already answered the questioner a little bit about that. This is the most difficult problem because we have very open upper secondary school doors. But one of the possibilities we are considering and for which very many very good people are working in the Ministry of Education is using the Nordic model. We are not saying whether you, as a person, such as Andres Herkel, are now in a professional or upper secondary school direction, but, apart from this general education, we will look at your individual abilities and interests in the search for a learning path. The Finns have been implementing it for quite a few years. They've built a whole law since they were looking for a way to study. They look at it with great optimism and say it has brought them the greatest success. A young person, for example, takes certain subjects at a vocational school; he may also take certain subjects at a university, because these divisions are not so high after all. How we do it, let's see. There are a lot of people who believe that this is what we have to work for.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U425	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U426	Thank you. Madam Minister! You said that the number of training places will be confirmed by the school council with its partners for a calendar year. My question is this: isn't the Ministry afraid that the number of young people who study fully in professional institutions will go down badly? We have enough young people who don't learn anywhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U427	We worry all the time. First of all, we want all young people to continue their studies except for primary school. There have even been several rounds of discussion as to whether it should be compulsory or forced in any way, so that they will certainly continue to study after primary school. This discussion is likely to remain with the next Riigikogu, but it is very important to give society a message in one way or another that basic education is not sufficient. Fortunately, there are very few people who do not go directly to study; there are a few hundred of them each year. However, leaving studies in both upper secondary and vocational schools is unacceptably frequent. So the first thing is our very high expectation that every dropout in a vocational school will be dealt with separately. That's another thing. Are we concerned that the number of students may decrease further? Yes, we are. That's why they're looking for ways to get vocational schools and upper secondary schools to work together more and better network, whether as educational centres, consortia or networks, that's what time shows. But the fact that these walls are not so rigid is certainly an important step. Let us also be realistic. Vocational education has so many exciting specialties that young people do not even know. It is possible to gain additional knowledge and why not make use of these opportunities. The third thing we are doing in this direction is that, of course, this school is the main decision-maker, but since it is public schools, the laws are trying to give schools more breathing space, because we are very controlling. But the former head of school has a contract directly with the Ministry of Education and Research, the Ministry of Education and Research continues to literally look at these contracts, goes to inspection, checks what is being dealt with in the field. When will there be greater independence in schools? I'm sure it'll take a while. Employers have also been assured that we will certainly not release any areas or directions. I have already mentioned the concern that they do not want to deal with these same basic school pupils, for example. Adults are kind of complicated, but they're motivated, they come to study because they want to, but they probably have to deal with a middle school kid separately, and it's much more labour-intensive. Although some teachers say that this is the most beautiful part of the job, because you see this huge change: he comes to school as a child and goes out as a really good woman or a man. But it's very labor-intensive. So in any case, this requirement remains that the resources are primarily directed to primary school pupils and that they are seeking these outputs.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U428	There are no further questions for the initiator of the bill. Thank you, Minister of Education and Science Mailis Reps! The rapporteur for the Committee on Culture is Krista Aru. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U429	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Dear Minister, Good people's representatives! The Committee on Culture discussed this draft law on 8 October, Monday. I must tell you right away that the Committee on Culture welcomed this bill as a whole. You will all probably remember that the Committee on Culture held a debate in this Chamber on a key national issue on vocational education, and that is why the Committee on Culture as a whole is familiar with the issue. This first debate already showed that we are all debating and thinking along the lines. It was particularly nice that the information room in which we started to exchange ideas with each other on this bill was the same for all of us: vocational education is important, vocational education is necessary, the image of vocational education needs to improve, and vocational education as a whole is what we all want to contribute to improving. The Minister of Education, Vice Chancellor Ivar Sikk, Head of the Department of Vocational Education Teet Tiko and Lawyer Hilje Arukuusk participated in our debate. The Minister gave us a very thorough overview of this, just like here in Saalisk just now, which is the most important changes to this bill, where it is aimed at and what the expected results of the Ministry could be, as well as the impact this bill could have on the vocational education system itself. All this impact could be positive, I will tell you in advance. I am not going to go over all this meaningful talk that you have really got a very good view of the Minister's presentation, but I will just mention a few of the questions that arose in the Commission for the first time. As I mentioned in the introduction, the Commission has had many contacts on this issue. It was clear that the first debate was also very lively and would probably have been even more lively if the time had not run out. But now some of the problems that we raised in the Commission immediately, but which did not sound like this in this Chamber today in the round of questions and answers. First of all, Viktoria Ladynskaya-Kubits was the first questioner to bring the issue of vocational education teachers to the agenda. We all know very well that vocational education in a sense means a teacher 'double'. Where does their offspring come from? Do their wage conditions correspond to their actual contribution to work? This is the second half of the question: is the current level of vocational education and training in line with employers' expectations? In my opinion, the Minister has very well emphasised the important moment both in this large Chamber and in the Commission. Employers always ask for the best, and it will remain so, but the education system at any level can never be so that it meets everyone's expectations. The only thing that helps here is cooperation between employers and the school. This cooperation is, in fact, made very clear through legislative changes. Another major circle of problems, which may not yet have sounded so well here, but which we touched in the Commission from quite a few places, is the level of basic education given in vocational schools. Does the VET system as a whole teach only a good specialist, or does it teach and cultivate the kind of employee that our employers expect to be responsible, accurate, skilled, responsible? This is where the other side comes on the table very significantly, the same issue of education, which is probably much more complicated in the vocational education system as a whole than in primary school and perhaps especially in upper secondary school. Heidy Purga brought to the table a topic that may have come to the sound of today: the courses of study. It is known that there are fields of study, there are fields of study, there are study programmes, there are curricula. But how does making the right choice among them in vocational education and training work specifically? This is the same issue of flexibility. There's probably no better answer here. I can say that the Commission will certainly continue to address this issue. But, again, cooperation with professional associations, cooperation at regional level with companies in the region is important, because it is very difficult to achieve that in Tallinn the masters are trained exactly as required in Väimela. The Väimela has its own master's training and it must take place in accordance with its regional needs. The mobility of teachers, which is particularly relevant to teachers at the general education base. Do we have enough teacher mobility between upper secondary school and vocational school? How does this even happen? It was another round of questions he brought to the table by Heidy Purga. The direction that the Minister has just emphasised: the solution for the Estonian state is also the concentration of teachers, sharing of teachers, taking into account the burden between vocational schools on the one hand and upper secondary schools on the other. It is also different from region to region, but the solution could certainly be to concentrate more on networks and schools work very well together to exchange teachers. The speaker raised two very innovative approaches to vocational education, two innovative options for vocational schools themselves. Indeed, vocational schools have the right to provide general education, which they otherwise did not have. After all, general adult education was concentrated in upper secondary schools for adults, which are usually municipal upper secondary schools and which offer adult education. The introduction of this teaching into vocational schools is under no circumstances a minister repeatedly confirmed it in the Commission, answering my question of taking away the existing and future work of the adult upper secondary school, but rather, it is precisely the creation of an additional opportunity. Let us be honest, there has been a long period of demand from vocational schools themselves for the possibility of non-statorial general education in vocational schools and, on the other hand, there has also been demand from the public. If I am an older person and want to have a proper general education, then perhaps it will be easier for me to go to vocational school, because, as the Minister emphasised here, the age level of students in vocational schools is often more appropriate to complete general education there. The second and, in my view, a very important innovation, which we should emphasise, I very much hope that the Members of the Commission will talk about it in their speeches, and certainly the Commission will talk a lot about it in the future, is the possibility of pre-vocational training. It's the same year of pre-vocational training. When I'm through middle school, I don't really know what I want from life and what I want from myself. Maybe I'd like to work with metal, but maybe I'd like to be a baker. This one year provides an opportunity, on the one hand, to acquire general education competences and, on the other hand, to see that I am still able to learn and develop, and, on the other hand, it also makes it possible to understand what, for example, the job of a joiner, or what is still the job of a baker or pastry, if it has to get up very early in the morning, because it can be frightening. So this is a new flexible opportunity, and we had a long talk about it in the Commission. However, I understand and warn you in advance that everyone in the Committee on Culture is very well aware of this issue and it may be that we will all be speaking here at all times during the debate on this draft law. I warn you that you would know: if the draft law for a vocational training institution comes to the debate again, all the members of the Committee on Culture will come here to talk. Finally. We have taken four procedural decisions: to send the draft to the first reading today, i.e. by 17 October, to appoint a rapporteur and a referee and to conclude the first reading of the draft. All amendments are expected by 5.15 p.m. on 31 October. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U430	There are no questions for the Commission rapporteur. Thank you, Krista Aru! I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, Toomas Jürgenstein, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U431	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, It's an hour late. I will say a few words because I promised my colleagues in vocational education. Indeed, Krista very pleasantly emphasized that future masters will study in vocational education. I like to think that the aim of vocational education is to prepare creators who can unlock the usefulness, taste and beauty of matter in the most outstanding way. I began to like this sentence so much that I will repeat it: the aim of vocational education is to prepare creators who can unlock the usefulness, taste and beauty of matter in the most outstanding way, whether it is in construction, gardening, cooking or elsewhere. The creative environment helps to prepare the masters. The minister here named a robotics lab. I'll give you an example from another field, but it's just as good. In one of the smallest vocational schools, the Tartu Art School, there was a symbol-value personality for eight years. It was an art school cat. His name was Igor Tõnu Tass. A few weeks ago, he was hit by a car and killed. Whoever has an interest, see Igor Tõnu Tassi Facebook page and obituaries. He helped create a truly creative environment. Kadi Kreis, Director of Tartu Art School, said about Igor Tõnu Tass: "He helped create the identity of the art school, but it all came naturally, not artificially. He was not just a cat to us, he was also a bearer of values. When you had a hard day, you talked to her, and it helped. He was a tension grounder and a psychologist. " So, vocational schools with a rich creative environment, whether there is a robotics lab or there are animals involved, are the breeding grounds of the masters. I'm gonna make it more practical now. Indeed, today it was already coming through here that the debate on the state of vocational education took place in the Riigikogu Chamber on 18 May last year as a matter of national importance. The Chairman of the Estonian Association for the Promotion of Vocational Training, Director of Viljandi Vocational Training Centre Tarmo Loodus, pointed out five important topics. Today's draft will help each of these issues one step further. For example, Tarmo Nature stressed that vocational education is part of the education system as a whole and that equal treatment should be guaranteed for students at all levels of education. Tarmo also mentioned the need for support specialists, the need to make the financial opportunities for vocational education more flexible and to involve private entrepreneurs, and highlighted the very sympathetic principle that every person in Estonia should have an invitation by the age of 25. When we read the draft and the explanatory memorandum, we look at them in more detail, we see that almost all the problems raised by Tarmo Nature have a certain equivalent here. I'm not gonna read these things out. I've got them picked out the same way. So, ladies and gentlemen, we have before us the draft of future masters. Estonia needs champions, let's work on this bill, let's make it even better! I feel very good because I feel that the Riigikogu is taking one step here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U432	I'm closing the negotiations. First reading of bill 704 is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 31 October.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U433	First reading of the draft law amending the Act on the organisation of health services initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws 698. The initiator's waitress is Riina Sikkut, Minister of Health and Labour. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U434	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I will introduce you to the amendment of the Health Services Organisation Act and the related amendment of other laws Act 698. The draft is related to s. a Act amending the Estonian Health Insurance Fund Act, which entered into force on 1 January, and related to the amendment of other laws adopted by the Riigikogu. a on 6 December. According to the law adopted at the end of last year, the income base of the Health Insurance Fund was extended by a budget allocation based on the sum of the state pensions of non-working pensioners, old-age pensioners and retirement pensioners. Together with the expansion of the health fund's income base, it was decided to transfer part of the financing of services financed by the state budget to the sickness fund in 2018-2022, in order to reduce the fragmentation of funding. In spring 2017, the government decided that the inevitable assistance of uninsured persons and the cost of healthcare mentioned in the draft will be transferred from 2019 to the Health Insurance Fund. The current situation is that the obligation to pay for uninsured persons and other health services is by law still in the Ministry of Social Affairs, but this money has already moved to the Health Insurance Fund. Therefore, with regard to the processing of the state budget in the Riigikogu, we wish to make changes at the same pace to the financing of services provided to uninsured persons. The amendment of this procedure requires the amendment of the law on the procurement, handling and transplantation of cells, tissues and organs, the law on psychiatric assistance and the law on the determination of the cause of death, by amending the section on health services, where the provision of services currently provided to an uninsured person is also paid from the state budget on the basis of a contract concluded between the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Health Insurance Fund. The draft does not have any additional financial impact on the health insurance fund. The allocation to be transferred to the Health Insurance Fund already includes these costs of the services mentioned in the draft. By 2019, the cost of services financed through the Ministry of Social Affairs has been estimated at EUR 8.053 million and the budget of the Institute for Health Development has been estimated at EUR 225000. The draft should enter into force on 1 January 2019. Now the changes in detail. First of all, the Health Services Organisation Act will be amended. These changes relate to the transfer from the state budget to the sickness fund of the financing of unavoidable aid for uninsured persons. It is stipulated that emergency care provided to a person not covered by health insurance will be paid from the Health Insurance Fund's budget on the basis, under the conditions and in accordance with the conditions laid down in the list of health care services. It also provides health services related to the protection of public health of persons not covered by health insurance, which will also be paid from the Health Insurance Fund's budget. These are services which are currently financed from the state budget through the financing of unavoidable aid or from the budget of the Institute for Health Development. According to the draft regulation, the Minister of Health and Labour will also establish a list of health services related to the protection of public health for persons not covered by health insurance, by listening in advance to the opinion of the Board of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund. The availability of services to uninsured persons does not change compared to the current situation. Public health protection services for persons without health insurance include HIV testing, HIV-positive outpatient infectious disease services, treatment of tuberculosis patients, diagnostic research of people with tuberculosis symptoms, sexual counselling of young people, treatment and counselling of patients with dual diagnosis, advice on tobacco withdrawal, institutional addiction to minors, and online advice for young people on sexual health. Upon the entry into force of the Act, the provision of these services will be guaranteed in the same amount and amount as the current one, and in the future the Estonian Health Insurance Fund will pay the provider for these health services. Secondly, the law on psychiatric assistance is amended. The legal provision governing the financing of psychiatric assistance, treatment and expertise of uninsured persons from the state budget is amended. Compared to the law in force, it provides for the payment of necessary psychiatric assistance to a person not covered by health insurance from the Health Insurance Fund's budget, but the wording of the provision has been updated, excluding repetitions and outdated terms such as 'inadequacy' or 'disparencies'. Thirdly, the law on the procurement, handling and transplantation of cells, tissues and organs is amended. Provision shall be made for the cost of health care provided to an uninsured living donor in connection with the procurement and handling of cells, tissues or organs and the treatment resulting from the medical condition resulting from the removal of the organ and the cost of healthcare provided to a deceased donor and potential deceased donor to continue to be paid from the budget of the Health Insurance Fund on the basis, under the conditions and in accordance with the conditions laid down in the list of health services. Fourthly, the law on the cause of death is amended. It is stipulated that the sickness fund will reimburse the costs of the pathoanatomic autopsy of both the deceased covered by health insurance and the deceased not covered by health insurance. Fifthly, the Estonian Health Insurance Fund Act is supplemented by the provisions of the Supervisory Board's terms of reference resulting from the amendment to the Health Services Organisation Act, according to which the Minister of Health and Labour establishes a list of health services for persons not covered by health insurance by the Regulation. The law is supplemented by the provisions of the Council's competence, according to which the Council gives the Minister responsible for the field an opinion on the list of health services for persons not covered by health insurance. Summary. The inescapable aid mentioned in the draft and the provision of health services to an uninsured person are already funded from the state budget through the budget of the Ministry of Social Affairs or the Institute for Health Development. These are internal and technical changes related to the transfer of state budget expenditure to the budget of the sickness fund in the form of a budget allocation for the state budget. This relates to decisions on a change in the financing of health care made by the current government, which entered into force in s. a from 1 January. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U435	Questions for the initiator of the draft. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U436	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister! What happened to the Estonian Hospitals Association proposal? Are they late? After all, it would be in the public interest and in the interests of society to compensate for the costs of screening malignancies. What happened to their proposal not to be included in the list of services?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U437	Thank you for your question. This draft has been drawn up on the basis of the existing situation. Uninsured persons will continue to be provided with the services currently provided under a contract concluded between the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Health Insurance Fund. I agree that an extension of the range of services may be considered, but it would require a separate debate, a separate fundamental change. But I think that this debate must be held in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U438	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U439	Thank you. Good madam minister! This is a good and necessary draft. It is excellent that the financing of some scattered services is now brought together in one place, which will certainly improve the lives of health officials. It will be easier for them to organise things, both for the administration of services and for their funding. But there's another side to the provision of healthcare, it's patients. Does the law make their lives easier? As we know, the most painful problem for patients is the queues for access to medical care. Will this draft be able to shorten these queues to some extent in the future, how much shorter and when to shorten them?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U440	Thank you for your question. Unfortunately, this bill does not deal with the issue of queues at all. This is simply a transfer of funding responsibility from the Ministry of Social Affairs to the Health Insurance Fund. Nothing changes for uninsured persons who receive the service. They shall continue to receive the same service at the same service provider under the same conditions. Simply before, the contract between the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Health Insurance Fund had been concluded and, on the basis of the consolidated invoice submitted by the Health Insurance Fund, the Ministry of Social Affairs paid the costs of services provided to uninsured persons, and now the conclusion of the contract and the billing are cancelled because the money is in the health insurance fund and it is also obliged to pay for the services. Additional movements are simply cancelled at the Ministry of Social Affairs, but nothing changes for uninsured persons.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U441	Thank you, Riina Sikkut! There are no further questions for the initiator of the draft. The rapporteur for the Commission is Raivo Põldaru. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U442	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee discussed the draft law on Monday, 8 October. The Minister was present with legal adviser Jaanus Põldmaa and chief specialist in the Health System Development Department Ülle Jordan. The minister introduced the bill as well as he did here today. Members of the Commission, like you here, were well briefed on what the bill is. Since this presentation was so good, the members of the committee did not have much questions, except for Monika Haukanõmkel, who asked why the draft law had only now reached the Riigikogu, although the need for it had been known earlier. The Minister also spoke about the fact that this issue did not reach the previous draft. The Minister replied that when the Health Insurance Fund Act was being processed, it was not included in the complete package, as the implementation of the amendment required further analysis. It was decided, by consensus, to put the draft on the agenda for today, 17 October, to propose that the first reading be closed, to set 10 working days (31 October at 5.15), and to appoint a speaker before you as rapporteur for the Commission. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U443	There are no questions for the Commission rapporteur. Thank you, Raivo Põldaru! I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. First reading of Bill 698 is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 31 October.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U444	Draft law amending the pharmaceutical law initiated by the Government of the Republic 706. Initiator waitress, Minister of Health and Labour Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U445	Once again, Honourable Chairman and good members of the Riigikogu! Now I am pleased to introduce you to the draft law amending the pharmaceutical law 706. The amendments to the medicines law relate to the Commission Delegated Regulation on the marketing of medicinal products for human use, which lays down detailed rules on the security features on the outer packaging of medicinal products. The Commission Delegated Regulation is to be transposed into national law by 9 February 2019. The reason for this regulation is that the use of falsified medicinal products is a growing problem in the world and that such medicinal products are increasingly found on the European market. All medicines are faked from painkillers to cancer medications. Falsified medicinal products usually contain poor quality ingredients, do not contain or contain scheduled active substances in the wrong amounts. It is more common in Europe that counterfeits contain an active substance, but not a prescribed amount. Such products pose a serious risk to public health. More and more counterfeit medicines reach the patient, not from under the table, but through legal supply chains. According to studies carried out in Europe, around 0.005% of counterfeit medicines were sold in the legal distribution chain in 2007, but in recent years an increase of around 10% per year has been proposed, which means that in 2020, the sale of counterfeit medicines in the legal supply chain could already be more than 40 million packages, unless additional measures are taken to prevent the spread of counterfeit medicines. The distinction between counterfeit medicines and genuine medicines is difficult and difficult for professionals who deal with medicines every day, as there may not be a visible difference. Therefore, a system has been set up in the European Union, led by pharmaceutical manufacturers, which will allow for further identification of the authenticity of the medicinal product at every stage of the pharmaceutical supply chain. The European Commission Delegated Regulation lays down requirements for the introduction of safety features for medicinal products for human use. It shall include the unique identifier of the medicinal product, its parameters and technical specifications, the procedures for checking the security features and the requirements for establishing and maintaining and accessing a system of security features repositories. This delegated Regulation also establishes a pan-European system of databases to enable medicinal products to be identified and checked for authenticity. The system consists of a central European database and country-specific databases and allows a scan of the medicinal product in the distribution chain at any time to verify whether it is a legal medicinal product. Now to be more precise about the content of the changes. The safety features of the medicinal product are a unique identifier and anti-infringement device. This identifier is a two-dimensional 2D code allowing identification and identification of the packaging on which it is installed. Manufacturers of medicinal products shall encode the unique identifier on the packaging of medicinal products as barcodes, in addition to which the product code and serial number information are printed in legible form. In addition, the package contains an anti-infringement device, which may be a sticker, made of plastic material, which allows you to identify whether the outer packaging of the medicinal product is open. This is an additional physical barrier to the packaging, which does not allow the packaging to be opened without tampering. The safety features of medicinal products must be installed on all packagings of prescription medicinal products. For non-prescription medicinal products, the safety feature should currently only be placed on the packaging of Omeconazole. The share of prescription medicinal products in the sale of packaged medicinal products is about 62% in Estonia, so we can say that this change concerns most of the medicines sold in Estonia. Unauthorised medicinal products for use by patients, which are exceptionally introduced into Estonia, do not need to have any safety features, but if they are fitted with safety features for the European Union market, they should be deactivated by the pharmacy. In Estonia, the database of the safety features of medicinal products will be managed by the Estonian Medicines Genuine Control Foundation (as short-term RUS), established by marketing authorisation holders, pharmaceutical manufacturers, wholesalers, pharmacists and hospital professional associations. A similar solution exists in other Member States of the European Union. According to the European Commission Delegated Regulation, ensuring the functioning of the database system is not a public task and therefore, in other Member States, the private sector and the state have only a supervisory role as well. In Estonia, the objective of national surveillance of the security features system is to eliminate the risk that the availability of medicinal products will deteriorate, taking into account the general principles of the Delegated Regulation and other legislation. When checking security features, manufacturers of medicinal products, wholesalers and persons authorised or entitled to supply and retail medicinal products, such as pharmacies, authenticity of the unique identifier and integrity of the anti-infringement tool, shall verify. If the information system does not function and the security features are not automatically read, it is possible to enter the security features (product code, serial number) also through the interface of the REKS database and to obtain confirmation that the product is genuine. Medicinal products which are authorised to be placed on the market or marketed without security features before 9 February 2019 and which are not subsequently repackaged or relabelled may be placed on the market and placed on the market until their expiry date. Developments are needed in the databases of the Agency for the implementation of the Medicines Act, estimated at EUR 66000. In addition, the cost of setting up one inspector's post and carrying out a supervisory task will be around EUR 48000 per year. The Health Board will receive additional remuneration costs of EUR 14000 per year. The additional costs of the development of the warehouse programme and the connection to the REKS amount to around EUR 10000, which is covered by the budget of the Ministry of Social Affairs. The Act enters into force on 9 February 2019. The REKS shall be obliged to submit a notification to the Agency of the taking up of the task of managing the database of security features by 1 January 2019 at the latest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U446	Questions for the initiator of the draft. Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U447	Thank you. Good minister! As we have now heard, dealing with additional security features is a task for the private sector. The public sector costs are known, you have counted them, but the private sector, or pharmacies or warehouses, must hire people to do certain jobs, they may also have to feed the REKS, and in this connection, the prices of medicines may rise. Is there some kind of mechanism in place to prevent pharmaceutical prices from rising to such an extent as to create a hole in the pocket of drug buyers, people, or citizens?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U448	Thank you for your question. On the one hand, private sector costs are not known, they have not wanted to disclose them themselves, and on the other hand, it is a solution, both the structure of the database and the IT system solution, such that it is shared by different Member States. Perhaps there will be economies of scale, if you could say so, this solution was not developed solely for the Estonian market. Pharmaceutical manufacturers and wholesalers operate on several markets, so they also use the same solution in Estonia that they are developing for a larger market anyway. But indeed, these security features on the packaging and the new packages are probably more expensive than they were old. The question is to what extent this increase in prices can be passed on to the retail prices of medicines. There is no direct mechanism, at least for the preferential medicines that most patients consume. For preferential medicines, the Health Insurance Fund has established price caps and for other medicines, such as those listed in the health services list, price agreements have been concluded. Perhaps the drug prices are controlled by the Health Insurance Agency, he's negotiating the price anyway. But in the long term, I admit that if the packaging, as such, has become more expensive for all medicines, there is a certain pressure for price increases, but there is probably no such direct rapid transition that there will be an increase in prices on 10 February.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U449	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U450	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, Yes, it is certainly a very necessary draft and a very necessary Commission regulation. These packages now have security features on them at every stage of delivery, from production to delivery to final consumer. But from time to time it is also necessary to carry out, say, other checks on these medicines, such as quality control. For example, in Estonia, even here, for example, are wholesalers or pharmacists even able to carry out any other quality checks, open packages or check that the medicinal product meets the requirements?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U451	Thank you for your question. Indeed, it may be necessary to open packages for inspection or surveillance purposes, but just as it is now, no incomplete or open packages will be placed on the market. In that sense, yes, you can also use a package with new security features to control it, but then it stays for control purposes. It is not redirected back to retail sales, especially since the sticker or plastic protection is then damaged. Quality control and monitoring will continue to be carried out.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U452	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U453	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! Does the draft regulation regulate alternative medicines to some extent? I mean, people already known in folk medicine. How will they be able to enter the market? No one is safe from human stupidity, for example, the case of MMS. How can such things be ruled out, and how could alternative means of public medicine known for centuries reach pharmacies?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U454	Thank you! This draft concerns only prescription medicines. Traditional medical devices for medicinal products other than prescription medicinal products, such as medicated teas, homeopathic devices or similar products, and their packaging shall not be affected by this draft. They may be marketed in free form, without 2D identifier and with an opening-closure sticker or plastic snub.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U455	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U456	Good Chairman! Good waitress! My ears have reached, say, the rumor that since 2001 doctors have been able to prescribe cannabis for certain diseases. There must have been 17 cases now that it's been written out. We may call it public medicine to some extent, but it is obviously a prescription medicine. What is the situation, let's say, for this product?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U457	Thank you for your question. I can't tell you how this issue of security features concerns the packaging of curative cannabis. It's probably not the goods we sell in pharmacies. At the same time, this issue of safety features also applies to hospital medicines, including hospital medicines, it should be clear that these are not counterfeit medicines. I cannot say if this pot is exceptionally imported from another country for patients, and if it is a country of the European Union, the same requirements apply to packaging and security features. If you like, I'll answer separately later.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U458	There are no further questions for the initiator of the draft. Thank you, Minister Riina Sikkut! The Commission's rapporteur is Helmen Kütt, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee. Please come to the speaker's desk!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U459	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, the last seven delegates in the hall, and I'm sure they'll listen in the rest of the offices!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U460	Eight.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U461	Eight people. The Social Affairs Committee discussed the draft law amending the pharmaceutical law initiated by the Government of the Republic at its meeting on 8 October and prepared for its first reading. The Minister explained very thoroughly the need for this draft and what it entails. At the meeting of the Commission, the Legal Adviser of the Ministry of Social Affairs Jaanus Põldmaa and the Adviser of the Pharmaceutical Department Helen Berk also participated. Some of the questions sounded again in this hall. For example, the question put today by Viktor Vassilyev, a good fellow and member of the Social Affairs Committee, about what this entails for the price of medicines and whether it also entails additional costs for pharmacies and pharmacists and whether there is a need to hire people to carry out their duties. As in this Chamber, the Minister replied that it was likely to be an initial cost, but that there would be no high fixed costs. Maris Lauri pointed out that the draft could not only include a cost assessment by a ministry or public authority, the private sector costs should also be described, i.e. the costs for both pharmacies and pharmaceutical sellers. Marika Tuus-Laul asked further whether this amendment concerns medical cosmetics packages, and the answer was that it does not concern therapeutic cosmetics packages; it is only about prescription medicines and individual non-prescription medicines. The following decisions were taken by the Commission: We proposed that the draft be sent to the plenary agenda by today, 17 October, to conclude the first reading and to set a deadline of 10 working days, namely 31 October, at 5.15 p.m. The chairman of the committee was appointed as rapporteur, who will speak to you today. All these proposals were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-17_U462	There are no questions for the Commission rapporteur. I'm opening negotiations. I'm closing the negotiations. First reading of bill 706 is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 31 October. Good night. Closure of the sitting at 20:49 a.m.
