ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-09_U1	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the Tuesday session of the first working week of the VII plenary session. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I agree with the adoption of amendments, drafts, requests for information. Please, Marko Pomerance!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-09_U2	Good morning, Honourable Vice-Chairman and ladies and gentlemen. Of the options mentioned by our President-in-Office (opinion of confidence, inquiry, etc.), I chose the draft law. On behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I am pleased to hand over to the Riigikogu the draft law amending the Local Government Organisation Act and related amendments to other laws. This draft law has been drafted in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. As you will remember, the Chancellor of Justice sent a letter to the Riigikogu on 13 September last year, where he pointed out a number of the fact that the laws in force may not allow for the effective control of corruption at the level of the local government unit. We have proposed to amend the already mentioned Local Government Organisation Act, Anti-Corruption Act and Code of Criminal Procedure. Let it be that this bill lives its modest life in society under the name of the draft law on the control of corruption. We're legally accurate. We hope that we will get this draft processed during the spring session and that the situation will improve from 1 January 2019. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-09_U3	Jürgen Ligi. This initiative was short-term. [[Laughter.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Today, after the end of the plenary session, which may not be too far away, there will be a meeting of the Valgamaa Support Group in this Chamber. The caller is Rein Randver. Incoming check, please! 85 delegates will take part in the meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, There are no discussions planned for today's sitting, which is why our working day in this large hall will be short. I would like to remind you that a meeting of the Valgamaa Support Group is about to take place here. I'll see you in this very hall tomorrow when the ministers answer the questions. Thank you. Closure of the sitting at 10.04 a.m.
