ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-08_U1	Ladies and gentlemen, We will start the 7th working week Thursday session of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Dear women! Allow me, on behalf of all the men of the Riigikogu, to wish you a beautiful International Women's Day! [[Let's hear it.]] Despite a slightly more special day, however, the traditions are those that apply in the Chamber of the Riigikogu, and the rules of procedure also apply. According to the rules of procedure, it is now time to hand over drafts and enquiries. Please! The first word is Keit Pentus-Rosimannus.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-08_U2	Good vice chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Reform Party shall report an inquiry to the Prime Minister. This concerns an issue that we believe has, frankly, been free from party politics for a very long time. This concerns one of the most fundamental and important issues in Estonia at all. This concerns the legal continuity of the Republic of Estonia and the decisions and statements of the last few months that the government has made, what it has said and with which the current government has essentially called into question the principle of reorganisation. The current government has shifted responsibility to Estonia for the damage to the occupation, creating the impression that we have occupied ourselves. We are asking the Prime Minister a number of questions. We ask why the government led by Jüri Ratas has questioned the principle of legal continuity of the Republic of Estonia by its decisions. We also ask whether the government has analysed what questioning such a principle clearly means for the sake of picking up an internal political point means for Estonia's international reputation and what partial rejection of this principle will result for Estonia in foreign policy. But we will also ask about the links between the Deputy Chairman of the Prime Minister's Party and Putin's Special Representative's meeting with the decisions taken some time later by the government to bear the loss of occupation in Estonia. We ask for these answers to be given before Parliament and, of course, in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-08_U3	On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I accepted an inquiry. Its further processing is decided in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Now it's time to check in. Please, presence check! 64 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-08_U4	Ladies and gentlemen, we have an item on the agenda today, and that is 'Criminal policy developments until 2018'. Implementation report 2017'. Before we go to this procedure, I would like to point out that the summary of Crime in Estonia 2017 can be taken from the shelves of the drafts at the back of the hall to read and monitor the report better, as will the speech of the Minister of Justice. The procedure for this item is as follows: First of all, there is a report by the Minister of Justice, which lasts up to 20 minutes. Every member of the Riigikogu is able to ask one question and the representatives of the political groups can take the floor in the negotiations. At the end of the debate, we will not take a decision in the large Chamber of the Riigikogu. Dear Minister of Justice, please, the Chair is yours!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-08_U5	Okay. Honorable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Respectable Riigikogu! Allow me, as a representative of the government, to wish beautiful women's day to the women of our lovely Riigikogu. There is a general criminological fact that women are less aggressive than men, and also commit fewer crimes. The overall statistical figure is that 5 to 7% of the inmates are women. So men have a reason to learn. Let us now look at the current situation in the area of criminal policy. The general trend is positive in the sense that the number of crimes continues to decline. Last year, 26929 crimes were registered. The number of crimes fell by 7% compared to the previous year. Here it must be stressed, indeed, that, of course, as a number of studies show, reporting different types of crime, i.e. how many crimes people report, are different. This is the case, for example, for crimes against property somewhere 50%, with reports of violent crimes, which, for example, involve violence in a close relationship, being much lower. 40% of the registered crimes were against property and almost two fifths of the crimes were committed in Tallinn. In addition to these statistics, it is certainly important how safe the Estonian people feel in Estonia. We certainly have room for improvement in this area, but the overall trend is positive. Let's look at one indicator in the crime study: the proportion of people who feel unsafe around their homes after dark. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. In 2008, it was 20%, and so many people felt unsafe in the darkness around their homes. There has been a slight positive shift: last year the fall was 3%, which is 17%. Let's look at the broader dynamics in ten years, at the number of people who consider crime to be a problem in the vicinity of their home. We can see that there has been a significant change of attitude in people's senses. Across Estonia, there has been a fall from 21% to 7%. The most serious region is Ida-Virumaa, where the numbers that express people's sense are higher than the average in Estonia, almost twice, but there has also been a ten-year trend: instead of 40%, it is nearly three times smaller, 14%. It is certainly important how the state's criminal policy institutions are able to deal with crimes. We can see that as a result of the good work of the police and the prosecutor's office, the crime resolution rate has reached the highest level in the post-release period. Figuratively speaking, this shows the proportion of crimes recorded annually that have managed to reach a solution. That rate was 69%. I now touch on the most serious indicator of crime, the number of killings. In 2017, 37 killings and 8 murders were registered, a total of 45 more serious crimes against individuals (with attempts) resulting in 33 deaths. The number of deaths is the same as the year before, when 33 people actually fell victim as well. We are thinking about dynamics since the early 1990s, from the perspective of one generation: the protection of human life, the protection of the sanctity of human life is positive dynamics, we have reduced the number of killings by almost a size. However, we look at the Finnish figure: in Finland, this figure is about twice as low for 100,000 people. Again, we have room for improvement. There are certainly two central starting points for criminal policy in terms of damage prevention and crime prevention, a reduction in repeated crime and, consequently, a policy of imprisonment. The number of prisoners in Estonia has been on a declining trend, compared to the previous year, we have about 150 fewer inmates. An environment of imprisonment, which should encourage the reintegration of people, is certainly also important. We have closed the Murru and Harku prisons, which, to be noted, were such a Soviet prison-type detention facility, and this year we will close the Tallinn prison on Magasin Street and open a new, more modern prison facility. It is certainly important to develop a policy of imprisonment that supports the survival of the prisoner after release. This means that it is important to improve the employment of prisoners during their term of office, which is the aim of the Ministry of Justice, and it is certainly important that, once released, the person should be able to cope with addiction problems. The serious issue that I would like to mention in this House is one of the most important factors affecting the livelihood of former detainees, this is the residence. Objective and evidence-based studies indicate that it is very important to provide support in the first weeks and months after release, when a freed person is at the greatest risk of slipping and making wrong impulsive decisions that can lead to a spiral of repeated crime. Thanks to the objective set out in the criminal policy developments, we have been providing support services to those who have been freed by the European Social Fund for three years, in which they will receive a support person and, if necessary, temporary housing. I certainly want to emphasise the role of local authorities as important, because it is also under current law that they have the obligation to provide housing for those who have been released from prison. We must provide community support and help those who have been released from prison to enter the labour market. For these projects, around 60% of these people reach the labour market for the services they implement, and this is quite a good result given the complexity of the target group. We've been dealing with juvenile offenders for years. It should be noted that juvenile delinquency registered crime has decreased by 43% in seven years and reached 1000 border countries. The fact is that in comparison with the previous year and the previous year, this figure has remained the same, some individual figures have increased. I very much hope for the steps taken by the legislator at the beginning of this year when implementing the new system of leverage for minors. Our logic is that we try to influence these young people more intensively, choosing the right influences to prevent them from committing crimes in the future. There's nothing to say, specifically juvenile delinquency, as shown by criminological research, is developing into the path of recriminal crime on a plantbed. The starting point for us is that the last place that cures these young people is, in fact, a prison. It's gotta be the most extreme kind of leverage. It is positive that in 2015 a new study centre was opened in Kaagvere and Tapal Maarja County Education College instead of ageing special schools. A very important objective in criminal proceedings that the prosecutor's office has set is the rapid handling of criminal offences, and, as I said, the preference for alternative sanctions. Let's look at the dynamics of the last seven years: the pre-trial proceedings in criminal matters were almost two months in 2017 instead of three months in 2010. It is very important that, if there were scissors between different regions in the past, the procedures have now been harmonised. As I pointed out, practitioners can now treat minors more flexibly, from the family programme, the obligation to work or study and taking responsibility for the victim to electronic surveillance and positive behaviour measures. There are currently about 20 minors in prison, but there were around 50 in the early years of development. One major change in thinking that current developments in criminal policy have been aimed at those who, throughout the course of the proceedings in criminal proceedings, are the victim-centred nature of the truth. We know that in seven years the situation of ensuring the rights and safeguards of victims of crime in Estonian criminal proceedings has fundamentally changed, an attitude shift has taken place. 60% of the victims consider the Estonian law enforcement system reliable. Here and also from these studies, the challenges we face from the perspective of the future are emerging. There is clearly room for improvement. While criminal proceedings guarantee the victim justice, or solution, the wider victim protection system needs to be reformed. At present, studies estimate that it is more difficult for victims who have experienced a serious crime with low incomes and a poor social network, i.e. few people close to them, who should support them at a difficult time when they have been victims. Our starting point is that the aim is inclusive criminal proceedings, i.e., inter alia, that the purpose of dealing with an offence must be to restore the pre-infringement situation to the extent possible under human circumstances. In as many cases as possible, the objective must be to reconcile the victim and the suspect, i.e. to develop the skills of all professionals who are in contact with victims and offenders, in particular victim support workers. Now, violent crime. The largest variable compared to 2010, seven years ago, when the current trends in criminal policy came into force, in violent crime and in criminal record at all, but also in terms of procedural practice, there has been domestic violence. While the attitude in 2010 was to raise awareness among the public and specialists and to explain the nature and extent of domestic violence, we can now say that the importance of domestic violence is known in society and that victims of violence turn more towards the police and assisting organisations. In 2017, 2632 domestic violence crimes were registered, i.e. 1 in 10 crimes registered was a domestic violence offence. However, I stress that, as far as the report is concerned, only one in ten victims will go to the police. The majority of the cases registered in 2017 - two thirds - were the violence of current or former partners or spouses. In 15% of cases, parents used violence against children and in 9% of cases, children used violence against parents. The fact and special fact that should be borne in mind by the practitioners, as well as the social institutions, is that the police estimate that at least one third of cases of domestic violence have to do with the child, he is then a victim or an eyewitness, as in most cases. In criminal proceedings, we have set out to ensure real support and assistance for victims. Special attention is given to domestic violence related to children. An important milestone here is the provision by the legislator in 2016 in the Victim Protection Act. I certainly want to mention the Pärnu project as a positive and next step, which is in the pilot project phase, to ensure that the need for a temporary protection order is assessed more actively and that ways to simplify its application are found. One serious fact on which the Ministry of Justice intends to make proposals concerns how to ensure that the protection order works more effectively in reality. We also have, regrettably, repeated, recurrent cases where the fixed restraining order has not been implemented. It is positive to recognise the testing of the case organisation model under the leadership of the Ministry of the Interior and the management of victim assistance. I would certainly like to stress on traffic offences that there has been a positive reduction in the number of drunken drivers. The total number of drunk drivers decreased by 9% in 2017. The legislator has taken further measures here concerning the prohibition of repeatedly exempting a person caught in criminal drunkenness from imprisonment. But it is very reasonable to provide support to drivers with alcohol problems, and this activity has also produced results. In order to reduce recidivism, as well as to safeguard society, the Ministry of Justice intends to present to the legislator amendments to the Penal Code which provide for a more vigorous treatment of violent prone criminals and which also provides for the possibility of applying life imprisonment for several crimes to a person with a relapsed past who has committed a new murder or sexual offence despite previous sanctions. A person who has been punished for serious crimes has also repeatedly been required to undergo a mandatory shock spell and the principle that a criminal who has committed several serious crimes and has served a prison sentence must always be subject to a post-punished behavioural check unconditionally. In addition, the Ministry of Justice considers it important to expel foreign criminals. The state must ensure that foreign citizens who are staying in our country will not be able to commit dangerous crimes in Estonia in the future. Both a general and a special preventive measure is that they are physically removed from Estonia. I attach great importance to the speed of the procedure and the flexibility of the procedure. On the time limits for proceedings, this fact has also recently given rise to a discussion in Parliament, I would like to say that the view of the Ministry of Justice is not mechanical, on the contrary, we consider it important to create more open and flexible roads in the procedure. To this end, the Ministry of Justice will shortly submit a draft revision of the criminal procedure to the Riigikogu proceedings, which aims to create the possibility of a full transition to the digital procedure and to remove the requirements that oblige the processors to do double work in formalising the evidence. For example, if the certificate already exists in electronic form as a sound or video recording, its contents should not be rewritten in the minutes. It is also important to create open barriers, which should be more flexible, so that the prosecutor's office can choose from a procedural toolbox precisely the means to protect this person. Overall, I would like to say that, although the general trend in our society is such that registered crime is being reduced, our central challenge must be that all criminal proceedings become victim-centred. This must not just be a declaratory call, but it is also reasonable to hear the victim's position when it comes to imposing a sentence or early release of a person. This slogan 'victim focus' must also be realised in criminal procedural rights, which I believe the victims must be offered more. Another central issue in preventing crime is, of course, that crime must not pay off. It's about crimes against property. It is here that the prosecutor's office has been given a clear task, in addition to other activities, to give priority to the removal of the proceeds of crime, especially in the handling of important hidden crimes. So victim-centredity, reducing reversibility in society by intensifying the impact of minors, as well as shaping the policy of imprisonment in such a way as to help reduce reversibility by looking at the future, and these could also be the keywords for the next criminal policy development document. This year, the Ministry of Justice hopes that it will be presented to the legislator and certainly to all political groups, committees, interested legal public and stakeholders. I am sure that we will set targets for our country for the next longer period, which will actually apply, as we can see that the current document on developments in criminal policy has not only been a slogan paper. Sometimes there is a risk that this will happen to developments in national policies.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-08_U6	Good Minister of Justice, do you need more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-08_U7	I'd take 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-08_U8	20 seconds, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-08_U9	In reality, they have changed their attitude. I would like us to start preparing a new document in this spirit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-08_U10	Thank you, Minister of Justice. Members of the Riigikogu have questions for you. Liina Kersna opens the round of questions. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-08_U11	Thank you, good manager. Minister of Justice, thank you very much for your presentation. Indeed, the number of crimes of close relationship violence has fallen, while the number of killings and attempted killings has increased. It is also noteworthy that 2.5 times more than in 2016 there were breaches of protection orders. In Pärnu, the principle is piloted that in the event of a violent incident, the perpetrator is removed from home and the victim stays at home. The principle itself is very correct and logical, but how will the safety of the victim be ensured when the perpetrator is released? What is the plan to do to make the restraining order harder to break?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-08_U12	Thank you. The purpose of the restraining order is to cut through the spiral of fear. I am not a strict or rigid penal policy as a friend of my own, I am not obsessed with it. But the state or the repressive forces of the state must be able to demonstrate their strength if a person deliberately and provocatively violates this prohibition. This means that I have asked the Ministry to analyse it and that these proposals will be presented in the near future. I think that if the word force does not pay, in fact, the rule is confirmed, but the word force has not paid, then, in my opinion, if the restraining order is intentionally violated and it is proved, understandable, then in this case one tool that we could discuss is similar to the automatic shocking of those who have driven the car in repeated reclusive drunkenness. This means that a person has a clear understanding of the consequences of whistling at his willful law. I think this is where the country, with its strength, must be more intensively placed next to the people. We want to propose to the legislator that, precisely by means of a legislative amendment, it is the national law that sends a signal to the practitioners about the procedures we want to see in the defence of these people.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-08_U13	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-08_U14	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! Last year, I touched on the fact that the need for prevention policy could be reflected as a separate chapter in this report as well. I'll see that this year's old track has gone down, and it hasn't been in a separate chapter. Why do I consider this important? It is precisely because objectives are being set to minimise the consequences of crime itself in our society. We need to analyse whether our prevention policy, I expect, is that it still exists, meets these goals, that society is safe and that we do not have different concepts of legal behaviour. My question continues to be this: do you consider it important that prevention policy is made very clear, that the need for these resources is analysed and that they also fulfil the objectives?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-08_U15	Thank you. Yes, when we talk in a broader view about what social problems are pushing or what kind of environment is pushing people into a way that violates justice, it is undoubtedly the result of a great many circumstances. Certainly the Ministry of Justice intends to propose its own solutions, which we expect from the other institutions that we consider necessary, leaving aside the narrow criminal policy system, the justice system. We see, for example, a mechanical link concerning crimes against property. It is a fact that if the country's economic environment improves, the proportion of crimes against property will fall. During the economic crisis, we saw that the downward trend in anti-early crimes stopped. We can draw conclusions from this, too, which, of course, cannot be morally justified in any way. But the broader social issues relating to people's employment and livelihood are linked to the area of crimes against property. Secondly, when it comes to empathy in the wider education system, as well as in the social system, through value education, I am also talking about people who have aggressive problems, people must be able to find help, they should not be left alone with their problems. When we talk about avoided crimes, which are the most strategic objective in a secure and human society where people do not need to feel afraid, they are certainly important starting points. But this book gives a statistical view of what people who violate the law did in Estonia, at least on the basis of recorded and reported data. (Reinsalu shows the book Crime in Estonia 2017)
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-08_U16	Next thing you know, Krista Aru's gonna ask. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-08_U17	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Minister, for your review and report. Looking at this otherwise very meaningful and factual report, which you have prepared with the Ministry and which you have presented, I was surprised that there is no chapter of cybercrime, and you yourself did not touch upon it. However, cybercrime is certainly one of the rising types of crime in society and we, as an IT state, have also had a great deal of contact with it. Can you explain that?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-08_U18	Thank you. I think it was just a matter of time, I'm sure I'm not underdoing it in any way. During the Estonian Presidency of the European Union, we also had one of the important initiatives with which we willingly put pressure on the European Commission, namely the initiative of e-proofing. Given the conditional nature of national jurisdictions in cyberspace, it is necessary to ensure that Member States have a common standard of how they can cooperate on cyberspace crimes, but it is important to prove what circumstances, what information we take into account in cyberspace and what we do not. From a strategic point of view, it must undoubtedly be borne in mind that cybercrime is not just hacking into computer data in a narrower sense, as it was in the first phase of e-social development. In reality, it is an extremely spacious platform involving all kinds of organised crime, whether it be money laundering or the sale of drugs. It should be borne in mind that when we talk about protecting people's rights, the exact same rights that protect people from attacks, from interference with privacy in physical space, people must also have cyberspace. I would like to highlight another point: last year, the legislator made an amendment to the Penal Code, I am talking about the transposition of the Istanbul Convention, that was precisely the case of their harassment. Most of the 100 reported cases of harassment stalking last year grew out of aggression in close relationships, but there were different types of stalking. There is no doubt that it is not possible for practitioners to do so, and they must not distinguish between harassment, which takes place in cyberspace, and harassment, which takes place in physical space, at a person's door, or on the phone.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-08_U19	Next thing you know, Monika Haukanõm is asking. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-08_U20	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. My question is about driving drunk. It is, of course, a pleasure to look at the graph, because it is in a constant downward trend, while 5 000 drunk drivers are still very much for Estonia. But when I started looking at these numbers, I wasn't so happy anymore. Why? Because I've been watching how many checks have taken place. Over the last two years, the number of checks has fallen from almost 900000 to 675000, or actually a quarter. There's a very close connection or correlation. Obviously, this is not a downward trend that would be very happy and, on the other hand, the number of cases where criminal proceedings have been initiated has increased. Do you think we're on the right track? Maybe the alcohol policy we've been pursuing doesn't support us having fewer drunk drivers and, in fact, criminal policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-08_U21	I'm betraying a secret that the state didn't promote so the drunk drivers don't feel too safe. In fact, there was a reason why the number of raids fell by almost a quarter, and you said that from almost 900000 to 600000, the European Union Presidency, the policemen were simply involved in this security. The resource is one, obviously we did not employ separate police armies, which would have been responsible for ensuring security at the Presidency's events. But that was a fact. I also had this question, and the officers of the Police and Border Guard Department quite frankly admitted it. Now the Presidency is over, we survived it. For drinkers, yes, statistically 25% or 20% less likely to be missed. But now this opportunity has gone away again, so on the 100th anniversary of the Republic of Estonia, they should not even think about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-08_U22	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-08_U23	Good manager! Good minister! In the context of the day before yesterday, I would like to ask if it is normal for a prison place fee to be twice as high as the place fee for a nursing home. But in the context of today's Women's Day, here's what I'm asking. The number of crimes in Estonia is 26000 and there are 2600 cases of domestic violence, but only 1 in 10 victims turn to the police. So if they all turned around, the number of crimes would be about 50,000. What would you say to women in the context of today's Women's Day, is it even worth going to the police? Then your numbers go to the ceiling.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-08_U24	Thank you. These numbers have, in fact, increased over the last seven years, when the state has set it as an important block in its criminal policy. Of course, on this day and on other days, my message is that it is a priority for the national justice system. We are looking for you to be more intensive in helping the victim in a situation where he has reported a crime. But my message is one: today, the Estonian justice system is such that if a person reports a crime, he will not be left alone, the state will offer him protection, he will provide support. You can bet on that. As regards the fact that only some of the crimes are reported, it remains to be stressed that people, even at first glance, should, in their opinion, perhaps, first and foremost, report property offences. This is necessary for the general safety of society. It does not even concern a specific person from whom an object may have been taken away, in fact it also concerns how and in what ways these acts can be avoided against others and third parties. Unfortunately, in the event of violence, including near-relationship violence, we see that, according to studies, people really do, as you said, only report it every tenth time. But we can see that violent behavioral patterns are characterised by a very high rate of recurrence. The hope that a person will voluntarily give up his violent plot of conduct if no other circumstances affect him or her to behave differently is not confirmed by statistics.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-08_U25	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-08_U26	Thank you, Mr Minister, for the overview and a book prepared. When I looked at the contents of the book, I saw that there was no chapter on organised crime, even though there was a hint of those types of crime that are usually linked to organised crime. I certainly suggest that we make a chapter like this next time. But would you now give a brief overview of the state of organised crime in Estonia, what groups are here and what they are dealing with, and whether it is more about foreign or domestic groups? That's a general overview.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-08_U27	Thank you. If we speak more narrowly, it must be said that the creation of a criminal organisation is an independent act provided for in the Penal Code. But the systematic or organisational nature of this crime may consist of a number of crimes, particularly crimes against property. I would like to highlight one of the priorities that the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice have set for research institutions in the current state's anti-crime priorities, namely organised drug crime, particularly the production of strong drugs and the widespread dissemination of drugs. I would like to refer to an initiative that we also discussed in the Committee on Drugs Prevention. No doubt, drugs must remain non-legalised, their use and handling must remain punishable, but we certainly want to distinguish two groups more clearly in the future. One group is drug dealers, dealers, the other group is addicts. In the case of addicts, our aim is not to apprehend them as a matter of our own; for addicts, the state must seek stronger alternative leverage. Above all, I mean the treatment, the person must have the opportunity to choose it as an alternative. You can't direct a person into a treatment program, we discussed it, but you have to have an alternative: either he chooses a detention or he chooses a treatment program. But the assumption is undoubtedly that these treatment programs exist. That is what the Ministry of Social Affairs and I are discussing now, and we want to develop them. As far as organized crime is concerned, our police authorities and the prosecutor's office have done a good job on their own. After all, many cases of organised crime have also been highlighted in the media when group leaders have been sentenced to imprisonment. It is certainly a priority in this sense that organised crime is by its very nature re-emerging. Of course, there are also organised crime groups, which are centred in Estonia, and this is a priority for our research institutions. This is a very complex, very long and sensitive procedure. As we recall, Al Capone was also convicted of possession of an illegal gun. This was done by means of national law, but such mafias must be treated by the national legal system as having to burn under their feet.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-08_U28	Andres Ammas, your turn, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-08_U29	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! On page 7 of this factual book, there is a chapter entitled "The Structure of Crime', where I found such a final statement that the number of crimes against political and civil rights increased by 69 crimes, which is 44%. Please, do you have any examples? There's probably a lot of different crimes down here, but what kind of crime has been more now? Do you have any idea or hypothesis as to why these have increased, for example, in relation to what?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-08_U30	I think the link is one and clear: in 2016 there were local elections. It sounds dramatic like Pinochet in Chile, but in fact, electoral offences are still being taken into account. I'm not going to challenge a particular case. I suppose they were registered cases: buying votes and something like that.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-08_U31	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-08_U32	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. All criminals in prison are known to be provided with full medical care regardless of whether they have a health insurance card or not, including drug rehabilitation, which will end effectively in 1%, 2% or 3% of these people, not more. They also have complete dental care. That is precisely what we are talking about: while law-abiding citizens receive only EUR 40 per year from the state, those who have come out directly against society and committed crimes are rewarded with the full provision of dental care. Don't you think it's somehow out of place or ruining the principle of equal treatment? What do you think of that anyway?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-08_U33	Thank you. I would like this ideological model if there were paid prisons in Estonia: the prison offers accommodation services, the person, figuratively speaking, has made the choice that has made him the patient of this facility, and the person pays for it himself. I once asked the Justice Department to run an analysis. The objective fact is that these persons are stolen, even more so, to a large extent their net assets are not zero, but they are negative because they also have to pay for the costs of the proceedings, they have to compensate for the damage suffered by the victim and any other damage. Their income levels are not in themselves high in the median sense. Now the question of moral choice. Peeter Ernitsa also had a question of a similar context that compared the cost of social welfare with the cost of the place of the detention facility. After all, the detention facility actually has three central objectives, I call it that. First of all, this is a completely legitimate goal of the rule of law, it is punishment in order to restore justice in society, it is necessary to punish a person for the act he has committed, by raising his hand against a fellow human being or by other forms of intense action against another person. In the modern rule of law, as well as in our penal policy, the general attitude is that people get into prison for very serious crimes against individuals or other crimes. Still, figuratively speaking, it takes a lot of effort. The second objective is, of course, the safety of society. This is what we are trying to achieve in order to reduce the reversibility of people in prison. This is not a unique problem for Estonia; it is a problem for all societies. You said correctly, the numbers are not accurate, but the reality is that, of course, a person already in prison is likely to be caught in the spiral of crime again. In prison, if you ask these people to raise their hands, who are already in prison for the second time, unfortunately, in a large way, two-thirds will have their hands up. Regrettably, we can make statistical assumptions that these people will be able to commit an act against a fellow human or his property in the future. In addition to punishment, the purpose of the prison is to socialise these people in such a way as to reduce their reversibility and the danger they pose to their fellow human beings. The measures that our prison system is implementing are evidence-based. We want to significantly increase the proportion of evidence base, including the use of an additional assessment of the profile of individuals, as I said. If a person has committed an offence, including certain acts of violence, it should be predicted that he or she will be resurrected and, on this basis, select appropriate post-punitive probation measures so that he or she does not face his or her own aggressiveness and the potential danger he or she poses alone with his or her fellow human beings. But if you're asking if our prisons are built up as a cute, spa type, figuratively speaking, hotel or resort, certainly not. These are spartan institutions. The principle I want this principle to be applied more intensively in the prison system must be that prisoners must have a duty to work. The fact is, given the nature of prison work and the low qualifications of these people, it is difficult to provide meaningful work functions for them, but we are looking for additional opportunities. One of the conditions for entering the society of certain prison groups and for re-socialization is also the study of Estonian language and participation in therapy programmes. It's a social interest. The question of whether the dental care arrangements for detainees should be changed. It has been a general, evening logic that when society has deprived these people of their freedom, it has done so in a legitimate, legal state, society takes responsibility for their livelihood. That is also a fact. But, as I said, it might ideally be considered that prisons are subject to a charge, or, as the next step, the inmate could be able to make a living during imprisonment, so that the taxpayer's costs are zero. In a normal economic environment, they can be objectives, but reaching them into practice is difficult, to put it mildly.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-08_U34	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-08_U35	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! With regard to developments in criminal policy, it is quite appropriate to talk about a case that may be one of the most brutal corruption crimes in Estonia in the last ten years. That is most likely, we do not yet know exactly, because, using your expression, the course of proceedings is not yet complete. This is the case of corruption in the Port of Tallinn, which unrolled in public with a great deal of momentum. One company claimed that the representatives of one party were asking for a bribe of EUR 4 million, which was called four lemons. Then came the surprise, not politicians, but officials. Another surprise was that when this prosecution was taken to court, it was sent back and it was said that it was not competent enough. It will certainly offend society's sense of security and justice if this process is interrupted in this way.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-08_U36	Thank you. In an effort to avoid becoming a judge or prosecutor in this case, I can say that, as the public, the questioner and I know, the prosecutor's office intends to challenge it. I can say that a judge under the Code of Procedure has such competence in itself, certainly the judge has been lawfully acting within the framework of his procedural competence, but I would like to say that this is certainly not a precedent in the Estonian procedure. In such competitive processes, it is the case that a state charge is brought by the prosecutor's office, that the lawyers are responsible for protecting their defendants, that they find legitimate circumstances, including procedural ones, and that the court must strike a balance. I understand that this judge's decision is challenged and shaped by the prosecutor's office on its own. If the question is, if we can now generalise whether the Estonian public can be sure that complex corruption matters are handled impartially, naturally in terms of volume and logic of priorities, then I can assure you that when we talk about the priorities set by the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice to the procedural authorities, a difficult investigation of corruption is a priority task according to the priorities in force, we must ensure that such cases are effectively investigated. Severe corruption means, in particular, corruption that threatens national security, as well as fair entrepreneurship. In these matters, the investigation of hidden crime is clearly more complicated than the prosecution of any one-episoded crime, whether against property or against the person, but I am sure that our judicial authorities will independently do everything they can to get the truth through fair and fair courts.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-08_U37	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that, in this debate on this item, everyone has the opportunity to ask an oral question. Next thing you know, Mart Helme's gonna ask. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-08_U38	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I come back to the question of Henn Põllea. You answered very long and very scatteredly. We learned that in order to prevent the reversibility of prisoners, they need to repair their teeth. This is a euthanized summary of your response. But that's what I'm asking. If I don't have the money to fix my teeth as a person on the loose, I just can't fix them. You said that the service of prisoners is small because the work they do is not very well paid and they do not have any money. Then why don't we just give them first aid when their teeth hurt, pull it out, but we're not gonna put a mouthful of shiny teeth on them? However, this commitment, I think, should not be taken on by society. Or what do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-08_U39	To what extent exactly medical assistance is provided in prison facilities, I will certainly give this answer to a good questioner later, if such an interest exists. As far as dental care is concerned, no gold teeth will begin to be placed in anyone's mouth, and yet with such logic as to reduce reversibility in Estonia. I do not intend to accept such strange reasonings or to take them into account. In itself, we have had the Russian era in which medical arrangements in prison institutions, including drug treatment, drug treatment programs, are built up as a separate system. The problem in the wider picture is that if a person is in a detention facility, these treatments work, but when he leaves, he gets into four winds. In fact, there is a problem with the efficiency of this system, I completely admit it. The Ministry of Justice is currently analysing the proposals. We work with the Ministry of Social Affairs. In our vision, the health care system, as well as the addiction treatment system, could still be one in Estonia. There is no need for such a separate prison medical structure. Like I said, it's just from the old days. We think that they could actually be fully integrated.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-08_U40	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-08_U41	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. One of the options for reducing crime is different therapies. We all know anonymous alcoholics, we've heard about anger management. Anger treatment is one way of reducing domestic violence, at least that is what experts think. How effective has the application of therapies to reduce crime in Estonia been, and is anger treatment practically working somewhere, for example?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-08_U42	Thank you. These programmes are the development of the Estonian social system, or of the justice system, there has not been a holistic convergence angle here, mainly through the funding of the European Union or any external projects. We have taken over certain international evidence-based models. The starting point for these programmes is that they have operated in other countries. Our perpetrators are not unique in any way compared to those of Norway or some country in Western Europe. The effectiveness of these programmes is very high, I can assure you. There are programs for controlling aggression. The starting point is, and this has also been found at a recent conference in Tallinn prison with a thorough overview of researchers from the University of Boston that people still have the ability to manage their emotions. We are the masters of our emotions, not the emotions that guide us. This is actually the case in all human relationships. Declaratively, it is easy to say, of course, the way people behave is more difficult to deal with. So I can briefly confirm that yes, these programmes have been implemented. I owe you an answer for a particular type of program, you can certainly provide additional information. But I have no doubt that if we have spent money, whether it is money from the European Union Support Fund or, in some cases, our own taxpayers' money, there is a very unambiguous correlation. When we talk about where to put the money, Mr Helme's concern is that the maintenance of prison homes is, of course, relatively more expensive than other alternative means of leverage. We want to move in the direction that, in the case of repeat criminals, when there are very serious, intense attacks on people and rights, long-term imprisonment is a legitimate and socially safe measure, but in the case of most of the offences, we are looking for a solution in alternative sanctions, in alternative influences, in order for people to be more law-abiding in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-08_U43	Karin Tammemägi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-08_U44	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. According to this material, the number of Russian native-speaking prisoners is considerably higher than the proportion of Russian-speaking residents in the population. It is obvious that this target group needs a separate programme. Is there anything like this going on?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-08_U45	Thank you. One of the programmes is teaching the Estonian language in prison institutions; we want to expand it. The second programme, which we have launched, is not language-based for obvious reasons, but operates according to nationality or country of origin, is an expulsion programme for criminals who are foreign citizens. There are some positive numbers here. Thirdly, it is understandable that the Estonian justice system does not distinguish between people according to their native language. Clearly, there is a correlation here when it comes to a person's later reintegration when it is difficult for him to find a job and earn a living. All these are objective factors that also work for other people when their language skills are narrower. After all, these are additional factors that pressure a person's relapse. What is the reason for this? Of course, we cannot claim that one or another nation or native language has something to do with crime. The justice system, based on what is a national or a native person, makes no distinction according to the harshness of the punishment or the criminal procedural logic. I'm sure there's a broader dynamic here. Consider, for example, the number of killings. The lowest number of killings compared to today's Estonian situation was during the Khrushchev period, when the mass migration within the Soviet Union had not begun. Criminologists have different schools in this matter, which are the main motivations for recidivism or committing offences, but one universal keyword is the common problem of rootlessness. Figuratively speaking, when a person lived in a peasant society with his grandfather and grandmother, with children and with the whole community, this social control environment, the discipline environment, was much stronger in magnitude than in today's very anonymous environment. The problem of inheritance in the wider context is undoubtedly one real fact.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-08_U46	Good Minister, the members of the Riigikogu have no further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Let me remind you that the representatives of the political groups can take the floor in the negotiations. Raivo Time will be the first to speak on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union. Please! Eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-08_U47	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The general trend towards security has been moving towards positivity for years. The overall number of registered crimes has more than doubled over the last 15 years. During the last year, it fell by 7%, and 2057 crimes were less in 2017 than they were a year earlier. The people's fear of being a victim of crime has also been a constant downward trend. While 43% of the population in 2005 considered the fight against crime to be the main concern of the country, in 2017 only 3% of these people were affected. In the last year, 69% of registered crimes were already solved, which as a statistical indicator is excellent in itself. There may be objective and subjective reasons for these trends. Prevention activities, the rise in general compliance with the law in society, the increase in social prosperity, as well as changes in the laws that decriminalise previous crimes, have certainly had an impact, which in turn has statistically reduced the number of crimes. The increase in the number of latent crimes, especially in the case of crimes against property, cannot be overlooked. In general, the country's crimes and priorities for dealing with them have been quite precisely defined for the last 10 to 15 years and no specific changes have taken place there. The biggest change has probably been the rise of crimes related to the use of ICTs to the top of a relatively high priority line. Unfortunately, today's limited time does not allow for any particular analysis or assessment of the different types of crime. I think there is no need for this either, because you all have fresh statistics at your fingertips. In the fight against crime, the state has contributed proportionally much to the resolution of the act committed, to justice and to the execution of the sentence. At the same time, crime prevention and rehabilitation after imprisonment and integration into society have been much delayed. In society, however, the view that fighting crime is the preserve of the police and the prisons. It was only last Monday that we met with the Deputy Secretary-General of the Prisons, Mr Kama, in the Special Committee on the Supervision of Security Authorities. The discussion revealed that there is quite a lot of and effective work being done with prisoners, those who are in prison. They are able to continue their education, attend courses and rehab projects, but, unfortunately, after their release, they often find themselves in the open sky, figuratively speaking. In particular, long - term prisoners are independently unable to move forward legally with their lives. Relapse rates are the highest among those who have completed their imprisonment, which is 43% on average, otherwise 30% on average. This applies to those who re-enter the accused or suspected role after their release, which is the reversibility of the year. What is important here is that support services can reach the labour market as soon as possible, as well as the provision of accommodation services by local authorities. Successful criminal policy and crime prevention require a cross-cutting, well-thought-out social policy in which the public sector cooperates with the private and non-profit sector and also involves volunteers. Progress in preventing crime can be achieved through good prevention activities, which must take place at local level in particular. Another very important aspect for me, which I have repeatedly pointed out, also from this remote control. This is that, in addition to the accused and suspects, more attention must be paid to the dignity of the victim and the witness in criminal proceedings. This will ensure that people have confidence in the legal system and will help prevent further suffering and mitigate the harm caused by the crime. It is important to ensure that criminal offences are dealt with in a comprehensive and thorough manner, while avoiding undue delay in the procedure. Compliance with the principle of reasonable length of proceedings must be the norm at all stages of the proceedings, including the trial of the case. If it is necessary to supplement the laws in order to prevent the use of stalling as a defensive act, we must do so in the Riigikogu. Today's IT and technical possibilities provide a wide range of additional possibilities to optimise the length of the process if there is sufficient flexibility and resources in the process. The Riigikogu has a decisive role to play in ensuring these same resources. At the same time, however, the length of the proceedings must be rejected for any time restriction if they are below the principle of reasonable length of proceedings. This is precisely a step towards ensuring that the procedure is not comprehensive and, above all, the interests of the victim and the reputation of the country, both internally and internationally, are damaged. Finally, I would like to point out that the justice system is not currently merely fighting classical crime. The globalisation of crime and internationalisation in many areas have become a security threat to the country, whether it is criminal corruption at the top, international large-scale money laundering through financial institutions, terrorism-related crimes or global drug trafficking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-08_U48	On behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, a speech chair is welcome to Liisa Oviir. Please! Three minutes extra time, eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-08_U49	Good President! Minister of Justice! Ladies and gentlemen, The Minister of Justice gave us a thorough presentation on the implementation of developments in criminal policy in 2017. Thanks for that. The Minister of Justice pointed out a number of success stories, but also a number of concerns. For my part, I would like to highlight some fundamental moments that will certainly need to be dealt with in depth in the coming years and which will have to be reflected in developments in criminal policy in the next period. As stated in the report, the Estonian law enforcement system generally works well. In particular, as a democratic state, we have paid attention to the rights of the accused. What about the victims? Of the victims, only 60% think our law enforcement system is reliable. If victims and victims sense that it is difficult for them to participate in the proceedings and they are in trouble in defending their rights, this is not acceptable. If the victim is left alone and unaided by his trauma, it is not acceptable either. We have done a lot of work to guarantee the rights of criminals. Now it is high time to focus on the victim, to focus on the victim, who has ended up in this situation most of the time, not on his own initiative or on his own responsibility. The second issue I would like to emphasise is repeated crime. Within two years, 35% of those released from prison will be convicted of a new crime. For five years, this percentage is already twice as high, or within five years of being released from prison, 70% of criminals will be convicted of a new crime. If one of the objectives of the sentence is prevention, i.e. directing the person who committed the crime to an abiding path and enabling the person who committed the crime to reintegrate into society, then it must be said that we are still unable to cope with it. It'll make these people feel safe, it'll make all our people feel safe. This issue must be taken seriously, the success stories of other countries must be examined, and a solution must be found in cooperation with scientists and experts. Now, praise. He congratulated the government on launching a pilot project on close relationship violence. The aim of the project is to test different approaches to ensuring better protection and support for victims, to halt the continuation of violence and, if necessary, to remove a domestic abuser in the event of close-relationship violence, contrary to current practice. As mentioned in the report, the extent of close-relationship violence in Estonian society is still appalling: one in ten crimes committed in Estonia is a crime of close-relationship violence; domestic violence is the first among violent crimes 39%. Studies have shown that only one in ten victims turn to the police, and the one who turns to the police does so on average only after the 30th episode of violence. Violence in the immediate relationship is dangerous for several reasons. In particular, I would like to point out that violence in the relationship creates a "criminal circle": children are victims of violence and witnesses of violence at home, and this pattern can be passed through them from generation to generation. There have been different stages in dealing with near-relationship violence. First, of course, the psychological barrier had to be broken in society so that it would be discussed at all. The media played a major role in this. In 2011, when it came to the Istanbul Convention, there were still both MEPs and at least one minister who felt that violence in the relationship was either women's fault or that at least these cases were not different from other cases of violence. Then, in the Penal Code, physical abuse between loved ones was turned into a criminal offence. In 2014, Andres Anvelt signed the Istanbul Convention as Minister of Justice, which we also ratified in this Chamber last autumn. Over the last ten years, we have recognised the nature of the problem, created legal measures, a network of safe houses, signed and ratified the Istanbul Convention, adopted European values, at least as regards domestic violence, i.e. absolute zero tolerance for domestic violence. But one thing has not been done so far: the victim has been in a more difficult situation, because in the event of violence, the victim has just been removed from home. This has made the victim even more vulnerable. A pilot project has now been launched to remove the perpetrator, i.e. the bully, from home. This is a completely new approach to dealing with close-relationship violence. The same approach is used in several countries, including our neighbouring countries in Finland and Latvia, but also in Austria, for example. This is a clear paradigm shift: the burden of responsibility and inconvenience must be tolerated by the person who created the situation. Then perhaps the assessment of our law enforcement system of victims and victims will eventually change. Among other things, the pilot project also systematically deals with the perpetrator of violence, and advises him on how to find a way out of the pattern of violence, since in fact violence is primarily a perverted relationship communication. I hope that, thanks to the developments in recent years, there will also be a significant reduction in close-relationship violence in our society in the coming years as well. Two lines to finish. Legal policy is, and must be, conservative by nature, criminal policy all the more. At the same time, all policies must address current issues in society. When, nine months ago, the Minister of Justice and I held a debate on the need to include sexual harassment in the Penal Code in this very house, the main objection was that this composition is basically there and there is no problem. It is true that in private law it existed and there was also case law in the form of exactly one solution. Leaving aside the more philosophical question of whether physical integrity should be protected precisely by labour law, it can now be said that a compromise clause was essential. On 6 July last year, on the basis of the membership of the Penal Code, 20 sexual harassment offences have been registered in the first slightly less than six months. Many cases of harassment occurred outside the workplace, including on the streets, shops, buses, sports trails. I am pleased that this time the regulation was in the way of life and that people's rights are once again a little better protected. That's quite the last call to the Minister of Justice. Since the period of validity of the document 'Criminal Policy Developments until 2018' is actually coming to an end, I very much look forward to a working document on criminal policy developments for the new period, which the Riigikogu can discuss. However, I hope that the Minister of Justice will present the draft document in the near future so that the Riigikogu can work thoroughly with the document and give its guidelines and the document can also be adopted in good time. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-08_U50	On behalf of the Reform Party Group, Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-08_U51	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. To begin with, I would like to say that I am not going to go through our penal policy here and also the book that we have here. It has been talked about long and wide, in the future and in the back, and there is still talk. I would reflect on the situation in our rule of law at all, based on my own background and also on the work of the Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee. By way of introduction, I would like to say that the lawyers are, in my opinion, one of the pillars of society. I think that all judges, prosecutors and lawyers, even members of the Riigikogu who are lawyers, and especially those who work in the Legal Committee, have a very large role to play in the fact that we live today in a society that is incomparably safer and more honest than it was 20 years ago. This is not in itself just the result of the work of law enforcement bodies; it has taken place in parallel to the fact that society itself has evolved and social control has become more effective. We remember that maybe 20 to 25 years ago it wasn't very unusual for any of us or one of you to leave the party, get in the car, drive out, and nobody said anything. This is no longer the case these days. I think it is very good that people are more attentive and intervene more. We also see results in crime statistics. The number of traffic offences, alcohol-drinking driving, has decreased and decreased very significantly. It's very positive. Another very simple and understandable example is this: let's think of a little thing that doesn't come to our mind every day, that when was the last day that a policeman in traffic stopped us, who was willing to forget our transgression for a little pleasure. I don't remember. For the last ten years, I have certainly never met such a police officer on Estonian roads again. I am very pleased about that, too. It is one of the signs that we are the rule of law and that our law enforcement authorities work as they must work. But even though lawyers are the foundation of society and all lawyers are good and good, a little criticism could be made. Let's look at the negative side that comes out of this little book. Domestic violence still accounts for 10% of all crimes. Allegedly, only 10% of these crimes will be made public at all or announced, which in itself means that the home, the place that should be the safest, is not. This is a major problem and we should take it very seriously. One way to deal with it is, of course, to rely more on law enforcement authorities again, to rely more on legislation, but the question is not just that. Here too, this is the issue of social control, our personal role models. The previous speaker was just saying that domestic violence also creates a spiral of crime. I very much agree with that. Similarly, as members of the Riigikogu, we should think about the example we set not only by our actions... Can I have some more time, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-08_U52	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-08_U53	...but with your sayings as well. We recently had a case when the Minister of Justice announced that he regretted ever condemning violence against women. I found it very unpleasant and very inappropriate for the Minister of Justice. It was equally inappropriate that the chairman of this most humane, humane and humanistic party here in the Riigikogu publicly announced in the Estonian media that it is more important to remain in power than to condemn such a speech. This, too, will give society a signal and an example and will certainly not improve the results of this book next year. Maybe he doesn't increase these figures either, but the social example is important, it's crucial. The same is true of corruption and the use of public money. At the moment, the topic is how the Estonian state should recognise itself as its own occupyer, compensate for the damage to the occupation and do so unconstitutionally. What kind of signal does this give our society in general and our attitude towards public money? Well, guess what? Or see what is happening in Tallinn, how public money is handled there, how local politicians buy advertising for public money. That's not a good signal! Such matters should also be dealt with more strongly by public opinion than has been the case so far. Because the law doesn't regulate everything. One concrete example that I would certainly like to talk about. A letter was sent to me from Lääne-Virumaa. Citizen Aare Veedla is concerned that in the past, the local government compensated for the debriefings of relief police officers and the visits to the police, but these days it is no longer done. The reason is that the Police and Border Guard Board actually wants to take the money, if the municipality were willing to pay, and maybe to do some sort of motivational event. I sent this letter to Elmar Vaher, the Minister of the Interior, and Jaanus Karilaid, who is sitting in this hall. Elmar Vaher answered quickly. It's one of the debates we have here, too, about whether an assistant police officer should be so voluntary that he won't get any reward for helping a cop. I don't think that's the way it should be. If we start cutting this road really hard, we'll end up having local authorities full of so-called municipal policemen like in Tallinn. What are the benefits of the green men who here, free of charge, tore free riders out of free public transport, and then fine them or shoot them on the spot? What's the point of the municipal police, I haven't quite figured it out. Finally. The changes that are taking place will take place gradually. We don't really notice them, we don't wake up every day, and we don't think that the country is better and safer and so on. But it's easy for me to think back. Twenty years ago, while I was still living in Sweden, the people who came from Estonia to visit me in Sweden were the first reaction that there are friendly dogs here and there are helpful policemen. I am glad that there are friendly dogs and helpful police officers in Estonia today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-08_U54	On behalf of the Estonian Centre Party Group Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-08_U55	Ladies and gentlemen, It is quite difficult to be here after the previous speaker said that the law enforcement team would shoot someone on the ground, and he did so in earnest, passionately, and politically, by beating himself up. This may not have been the place, but it is the choice of every Member in which he promises to make such speeches. When we are talking about social security, social security at all, it must be said that, at some stage, bringing criminal policy developments in this format to this Parliament was very innovative. Today, it seems to me that this format is about to run out, some calls repeated, some keywords and problems repeated. We describe some processes, but the policies are neither effective nor efficient enough. I think that this format could be improved in such a way that, if the Chief Rapporteur is the Minister for Justice, either the Minister for Social Protection could take part in a co-report in Parliament or the Minister for Social Protection could take part in the debate and talk about social security, children's rights, improving the quality of life of families, because he has the most immediate channels, due to his own apparatus, that extend to communities. Minister of Home Affairs Andres Anvelt could talk about organised crime, combating drug crime and prostitution, the role and value of the youth police. Surely there should be a presence in this format, it is already time to take a step forward by the Minister of Education and Research and to talk about how educational institutions are involved in value education, in raising their sense of justice, in raising honesty and in valuing certain attitudes in society. So with the current list alone, three very strategic areas of work came to this presentation by the Minister of Justice, which would also make this fight more effective and constructive for the Minister of Justice. Now, if you look at society and start prioritising some kind of problem, it's not enough for five minutes and it's not enough for eight minutes. But the previous speakers also repeatedly highlighted domestic violence. Officially, more than 2,600 cases were registered last year. If we are to say that this is 10% of all cases, then we must be aware of the fact that over 20,000 acts of violence are taking place in our families, in our homes, and only 10% of them will come out. What should I do? This problem has been discussed year after year, but there are no very serious impulses for development. Is it about values, is it about social insecurity? Has social control gotten worse in society? If so, why has it gotten worse? I think that the proposal - I repeat - to improve this format and to go on with it would give us perhaps more effective and positive policies. The second keyword, which I would highlight and which has already been brought into this Chamber by various political forces, is the pre-trial procedure. Extra time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-08_U56	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-08_U57	If we really have such a stance in penal policy that through the press it is possible to stigmatise, punish, remove a person from work, then it could be said publicly that yes, pre-trial procedure in such a way that the press participates in it is part of our penal policy. That would be fair to members of society. If this is not the case, and we argue that this is not the case, stigmatisation is not part of the penal policy, but for some reason information leaks out of course the press has the right to access any information other than state secrets, then we could talk about it this way. However, some cases are of great concern. Is it a question of resources, is it a question of competence, is it that there are some kind of political 'lifts' in certain agencies? Let's talk about Arsenal, talk about Autorollo, talk about Tallinn Harbour. There are very logical reasons, there have also been special committees in Parliament, where there have been 50, 60, 70 or a hundred hearings, there is clear evidence, statements, but the result is that the ends of the biggest corruption affair in the last decade are beginning to disappear again. As I mentioned earlier in my question, the first startle was that politicians got away with responsibility, even though one of the entrepreneurs had admitted that he had been asked EUR 4 million or had been asked to participate in the company, politicians got away with it at this stage. Then two officers were captured, and in today's state, they too are getting away from the crime scene. For the public, this issue has been repeatedly maintained from different angles. It hurts the sense of justice in society and the reputation of the institutions. Society is safe when we know that the principle of equal treatment applies to everyone. Whatever political party you are, a crime is a crime and you have to take responsibility for the crime. This simple principle must prevail in society. If this is guaranteed, we will move more and more towards the rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-08_U58	On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Free Party, Külliiki Kübarsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-08_U59	Good vice chairman! Good minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Yes, the previous speaker can agree in this sense to expect a certain change in our discussions. We are given an enormous number of figures, but I think we need to essentially rely on what is behind these numbers, why one or the other development is either stuck or at the same level, why there has been a decline, or why one or the other thing has gone better. I therefore support all those previous speakers who have said that we need to conduct the debate on the next such document in a much more meaningful way. I would like to mark, in the course of today's speech, precisely the topics on which we would like to have a bigger and more public debate, to which I referred last year as well. The prayer is that if you start writing the following reports or reports, take the old verbatim and review what you might consider. I'll start with prevention policy. I think prevention policy is one of the most important elements of criminal policy and it is certainly not just a matter of the government of one minister; it is the result of cooperation between all of us, including the various ministries. However, it is certainly possible for the Ministry of Justice to carry out an analysis in its area of government of how prevention policy can reduce potential risks, what attention needs to be paid to whether it is juvenile delinquency or repeated crimes, and what is right and wrong in our social activities. In the Commission, we have repeatedly, for several years, been paying attention to this issue by the Attorney General. Last year, the Minister replied that prevention policy was effective when the salary reform of senior public officials was carried out. It can be said that, to some extent, this reform has now been carried out, but it is certainly not what gives the good news of a successful prevention policy. This should be seen in more detail, whether or not as a new chapter, in the collection of what these resources are, rather than observing the same style as the one used in this book, by the kind of goods allocated to prevention policies. We have repeatedly discussed in the group on different policies that prevention is more forward-looking and cost-effective than dealing with the consequences. This is an important issue that could certainly be seen in the future. My colleague, Krista Aru, referred to cybercrime, which in international forums is the main theme 1 and is likely to remain the main theme 1. As an e-governance, we need to focus more on this in our society. After all, this is the beginning of crime against young people. This is definitely a topic that we should discuss. What else could I expect? In the last three years, we have adopted a number of amendments to the law, both on the initiative of the Ministry and on behalf of the MPs. We would like to see an analysis of how much these legislative changes have given the practitioner, or ministry, good or bad, which are the results of the legislative changes. Have they made one or another of the types of crime more frequent or less frequent? Are the objectives that we have set with legislative changes met or not? Of course, there is an overload on one of the topics... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-08_U60	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-08_U61	... which shows that we probably need to hold a debate on resource management. We need to understand clearly and unambiguously our objectives and how we will achieve them. One of the keywords relating to congestion, which has already been touched on here, is, of course, the time limits for proceedings. Personally, I believe that the problem of procedural deadlines cannot be solved in a simplified way, by shortening procedural deadlines or, let us say, by setting a shorter period of time. Then, on the contrary, we will create more problems. The substantive side definitely needs more review. We need to know what these possible actions are so that we can shorten the time limits for proceedings through practical work, but not start looking again for a solution to the changes to laws that critics and practitioners have said that this is a misuse of our own working resources. Of course, it is also a concern that 39% of crimes are committed in Tallinn. Yes, it can be said that it is proportional to the proportions of the population, but Tallinn itself has a product like this security authority. Is there, and to what extent, cooperation and readiness to share resources with the police, for example, or how could crime indicators be reduced in cooperation with local authorities? Corruption is, I think, the main issue that exists in our society and is tolerated. It's very sad. All kinds of opportunities to channel resources into fighting corruption, I think, are very positive. This will help us to emerge from the traditions of the previous power, which have still remained in the bloodstream of many people. Of course, a major problem is the high number of drink drivers. We hear about at least 20 cases identified by the media every day, but this is a small part compared to those who are not identified. It is also likely to be an example of our social attitude and willingness to take joint responsibility. The way we behave and deal with the vehicle is one of our security indicators. My suggestion and request is that we discuss what is actually behind the numbers in the next similar discussions and try to find evidence of the substance of why one or the other number or figure is in the book as it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-08_U62	Mart Helme, on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-08_U63	President-in-Office of the Council. Mr. Minister! Colleagues! I can't help it, as a long-lived man, I had the feeling, especially during my first presentation by the political groups, that I had come to the day of the Soviet militia, where it is reported that the wise leadership of the party and the government has achieved unprecedented results in the fight against crime. Well, I guess so. I fully agree with my colleague, Mr Randpere, that the situation in Estonia has undoubtedly changed in 25 years. Once again, I recall my childhood and my youth. It was normal then, and I'd say it was inevitable that you were part of some kind of gang. I guess that bunch got in some trouble, too, from apple-cracking to maybe blowing up some lanterns from an air gun. I've even done it, well, such a boyish prank. Undoubtedly, the situation has changed and changed for the better. But now the question. The question is that statistics may tell us some very interesting things, but do we also see behind the statistics? It is very nice to see how crime has been decreasing in Estonia over the last ten years, let's say. Registered crime has declined steadily. A spiteful question arises: maybe for some reason less will be registered? For example, people give up and say there's no point. There's no point! Well, they stole my chicken, which I'm going to register for! But I can give you an example. The neighbor's dog broke ten chickens off me last summer. I didn't check in with the police, I don't know, maybe I should have. We can give a lot of examples on the border, but one thing is that we certainly cannot be sure that all victims will turn to law enforcement authorities to register a crime. That's the one thing that may be distorting the statistics. Another thing is whether we also look at the demographic processes in our society and their reflections in crime. Is the decline in crime not also linked to the ageing population? Old people may not want to do so much crooking anymore, no longer have this spark and energy, and that is one of the reasons why maybe statistics reflect crime in a different way. But there's a third reason that we're not looking at. We often read in the press that some criminals of Estonian origin have robbed a bank or shop in Finland, Sweden or Germany or have done some other kind of hog. Perhaps our most active criminals have gone from Estonia to better hunting lands, are doing their crimes there and are not reflected in our statistics? So the statistics may leave us with such a beautiful picture, but we should draw significantly broader conclusions and look behind the statistics. That is one thing I would like to draw attention to in the light of this brochure, today's presentation and debate. Now the second and very important thing, perhaps of central importance, which I think was brought to my attention again by Mr Randpere. This is the example we set. I am not just talking about members of the Riigikogu or government, I am also talking about local government leaders, I am talking about top politicians in general. In my opinion, there is absolutely no question whether ex-president Toomas Hendrik Ilves is a corrupt. He's clearly a corrupt person with his stuff on the Don't Farm. But we can see that our excellent rule of law is failing here. It is not a corruption case for the rule of law, but it is. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-08_U64	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-08_U65	This is where we, as politicians, must adopt a very clear and resolute attitude. Our rule of law cannot become a bullshit state where everything is legally correct. Who said here that the lawyers, it was probably Liisa Oviir, is our society, maybe I'm wrong, maybe someone else said that was the entry point of our society? Valdo again. See, that's a great report! But lawyers may also be the savages who undermine this bearing beam when they lead society to the jock trails, where everything is legally correct, nothing can be grasped, but the sense of society's justice, the sense of justice of ordinary members of society, is ruthlessly trampled underfoot. This is, in my opinion, a central problem in today's Estonian society and this problem must be addressed. The calls for an open debate on criminal policy are, in my view, of critical importance precisely from this point of view. Finally. Mr. Minister, my penguin, Uno Kaskpeit, has asked me to convey his apologies to you. In fact, since he's not a prisoner, he had to go to the dentist for his money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-08_U66	All the political groups have spoken, but the Minister has asked for a small speech. Please, Minister, you have a chance!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-08_U67	Honourable representatives of the people! Certainly, the speeches you gave here earlier were not just intended for Parliament's verbatim. We in the ministry analyze these views and attitudes in principle. Mr Ernits and Mr Helme, I promise to send you specific information that I mentioned earlier. Now, from what Mr Karilaid said. There were, in fact, calls for this debate to be more intrigued or meaningful. Here was the thought that in the future this debate could be multi-blocked, that other ministers with appropriate responsibilities would also be present to talk about either prevention or other areas, but I do not see why the higher national legal officials who can give MEPs answers and listen to input from the ground of their profession and competence could also not participate in this debate. That would certainly make sense to me. I hope that next time we discuss criminal policy, we will discuss it in the spirit of how to shape the foundations of a new long-term criminal policy. What I'm saying is, of course, we have to report crimes. Ten chickens in civil law, here is the source of greater danger (neighbor's dog), the damage has occurred, you are entitled to compensation for this damage. I think that given these circumstances, there is a risk that a neighbor committed a misdemeanour, that he might also violate the rules imposed by the municipality or determined by the state, the rules of dog-keeping, because how could the dog be so ravaged in your home yard? There is no point in reducing this problem. One of the previous speakers specifically mentioned a case, asking whether the State is lawfully dealing with it. Yeah, I can assure you he's handling it legally. There is also a completely legitimate format for parliamentary supervision; we have a special committee on the supervision of security authorities, and there is a clear channel for this in other parliamentary committees; it is also possible to invite senior legal officials to deal with these matters. Within their respective spheres of competence, they are certainly ready and should explain how a case is being dealt with. There is nothing unnatural when Parliament does this supervision, when there is a problem at heart. Here was a figure of political 'lifts'. Mr Helme pointed out that we need to look behind the numbers. I fully agree that there are a number of objective factors in the reduction of crime that we must bear in mind. This is actually an exodus, for example. This means that it is not older ladies who commit crimes, but the overall probability is that younger men are more aggressive, of whom a large number are looking for work and bread in other countries. Indeed, this 'potential offence' has been transferred to the statistics of these countries. It would certainly be easy to say that demographic trends have no impact on these statistics. I fully agree that there should be no way to take a fine - tempered attitude. Step by step, the trend has gotten more positive, I'd like to confirm that. We're also analyzing what it's like to report people's "interest." There are no negative developments here, but I am far from creating an illusory, slogand, all-enhancing mood regarding the prevention of crime and the realisation of criminal policy. Here, too, there was a call for us to give a more comprehensive approach to prevention, which was pointed out by Külliik's Hatter. I think it's very right. That is one thing we promise that we will give a comprehensive overview of the information at our disposal on the current situation when creating new developments in criminal policy, as well as of our ambition, what could be done in the future in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-08_U68	Honourable Riigikogu! We have completed the discussion on the report on 'Criminal Policy Developments until 2018' in 2017. Our agenda is exhausted for today. Once again, have a beautiful Women's Day and a successful working day! I'll see you next Monday! Closure of the sitting at 11.53 a.m.
