ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U1	Honourable Riigikogu, hello! Happy Valentine's Day to you all! Question Time. Incoming check, please! 32 members of the Riigikogu are in Question Time. Government members: Minister for Health and Labour Jevgeni Ossinovski, who is here today in the role of Prime Minister, Minister of Finance Toomas Tõniste and Minister of the Interior Andres Anvelt. I will give the debate on each issue an opportunity to put forward a more specific question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U2	The first question is to Mr Ossinovski, who is in charge of the Prime Minister. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The question may concern Latvia, but, as I said to the Minister before, the question is as friendly as possible today. This is not where 55 million excise revenue was lost, but what I am asking is what has become of the Green Paper on alcohol policy. Indeed, it was adopted in 2014 and programmed a reasonable schedule for the increase in excise duty of 5% per year. However, the uprising has been so great that, according to some groups of merchandise, we should be living now in 2040. I have a question for you now. This alcohol policy has gone down to a large extent. What are the excise plans for the next four years, given the current situation, and are these plans being developed? Why are books that are not actually filled? Maybe we can do better in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U4	Thank you very much for this question. The Green Paper on alcohol policy is indeed a strategic document in this policy area, which was prepared at length in the Ministry of Social Affairs and which, when the Minister of Social Affairs was in Taavi Rõiva, was also approved by the government. I must start by saying that this Green Paper is already a compromise between different interests. In addition, as representatives of business interests related to alcohol were involved in the development of this book, there are many points that have been considerably softened compared to what scientists around the world have said about reducing alcohol losses. For example, I would like to make a comparison that the WHO has taken the principle that those who have a commercial interest in this sector are not involved in the development of strategic documents of this type, as these interests are exactly contrary to the interests of protecting public health. But the Green Paper is a very comprehensive document, of which excise policy is only a very small and far from the most important part. There is a broader framework for implementing the WHO's global anti-alcohol strategy, talking about alcohol treatment, reducing road accidents, restricting alcohol advertising, restricting access to alcohol, etc. The Alcohol Act, which was completed in the Ministry of Social Affairs in autumn 2015, is actually based on this Green Paper. The law was also passed by the Riigikogu at the end of last year and is now gradually coming into force. Much wider advertising restrictions will enter into force on 1 June. a, the possibility of control purchases by the police and the tax administration has already entered into force and some sales restrictions will apply from next year. Excise policy is only a small part of it. In general, the trend has been that alcohol should not become more favourable than income. That's the direction the government's been holding.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U5	Thank you. Andres Herkel, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U6	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be more specific. Do you really still justify this sudden rise in excise duty, which has caused a significant downfall? What is your message, however, to the villages of South Estonia, where shops have closed their doors, and to those people who, not in any way demonistically, but now, because of their daily needs, are making freight trips to Latvia and not only alcohol at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U7	Thank you. In my reply, I tried to say that alcohol policy is complex in nature and that is why the Green Paper is a very good strategic policy framework for reducing alcohol losses in society as a whole, and excise policy is only a very small part of it. The main objective of excise policy from the health perspective is that alcohol should not become cheaper than income. That's what the government has been following. Previous decisions on excise policy have moved along this route because of the preferences of the Reform Party, that beer has become consistently cheaper than income and that a particular category of alcoholic beverages has been preferred. The new government has considered ethanol to be ethanol, which means that the price of both groups should rise. Let's talk about border trade. We've been talking about 55 million, but we need to look at this figure a little bit. The real gap has been around EUR 20 million, and the rest has been due to the impact of the shift in stocks over the years. Let's see about 20 million more. This is a real sum, and of course we will not be happy about it. The vast majority of this subfolding has been made up of the underbreak of strong alcohol. Strong alcohol border trade began far before the birth of this government, and this has certainly been caused by the rapid rise in the excise duty on strong alcohol. The Ministry of Finance has also pointed out in the past that this poses a greater risk to border trade, but the Prime Minister's Party and the Minister of Finance, who is sitting here today, were firmly convinced that the excise duty on strong alcohol should be increased quickly and that beer excise duty should not be at all. I guess it's working now. But this party, I heard yesterday, issued a bill that wants to lower the price of beer, but keep the price of strong alcohol the same, in a situation where the overwhelming underbreak is actually caused by strong alcohol.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U8	Thank you. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U9	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! You could say you've been in the government for years. At times, however, it seems that you came to the government yesterday, and everything that has happened before today has been bad, and you have not had the opportunity to change anything. Yesterday we heard from the news about national broadcasting that if you add up all the consumption that is taking place on our territory, that is, purchases in our territory, and purchases in Latvia, the statistics probably show that this alcohol race has led to an increase in people's alcohol consumption. I absolutely cannot agree with you that the aim of the Green Paper on alcohol policy is to ensure that the price of alcohol is constantly rising compared to incomes. The main objective is for people to drink less alcohol. In my opinion, the current system will lead people to simply consume more alcohol because they are buying stocks. Doesn't that concern you as a minister responsible for your health? Maybe this health aspect...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U10	Thank you. The question has been asked.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U11	...has now been completely out of sight.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U12	Thank you very much. In my claim, I quoted almost literally the Green Paper, but I do not have it ahead of me, that the objective of excise policy, in terms of health protection objectives, is that alcohol should not become more favourable than income. The broader objective is, of course, to reduce total consumption. You referred to some news. This, however, let us be precise, is the news made by manufacturers. For many years, we have been intimidated by manufacturers with all kinds of forecasts, such as the vast majority of alcohol purchased in Latvia this year, etc. We have actually seen that the share of border trade has actually stabilised. You are asking whether, in the past, having been a member of the government for a few years, I have not been able to influence these decisions. I've still got it, and I've been trying to do it. In 2014, when it was decided to exceptionally increase the increase in excise duties on alcohol, indeed, as I said, it was the clear will of one of the government partners to increase the excise duty on strong alcohol at a rapid rate and to increase the difference between the two, so that the price of beer became relatively cheaper than incomes and the price of vodka did not. Even then, the Ministry of Finance pointed out that this could lead to border trade. I was one of those members of the government who said that it was not justified from a health point of view. Unfortunately, I do not remember what your position was then, but I tend to think that you shared the position of your Minister of Finance, Jürgen Ligi. If you look at the same collection table, we can see that with strong alcohol we are at the level of 2014 or even a little below that level, so we can see a serious downfall of the strong alcohol excise duty. As a result, the government has also tried to make corrections in order to improve the situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U13	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U14	The next question is the Minister of Finance, Toomas Tõnis. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U15	Thank you. Mr. Minister! Your party has now exchanged messages with the Labour Minister's party, who is responsible for what tax rack. And the only thing you've agreed on is that the Reform Party is really responsible for everything. The Labour Minister has also dealt thoroughly with how the Reform Party has led both the current and the former government, and they know nothing. If that's the case, we're coming to help you. We have submitted a draft which would reduce excise duty. Are you willing to work together to correct the mistake the Reform Party has allegedly made with Sven Sester's hands?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U16	Thank you for your question. Yesterday, a bill was introduced to reduce the excise duty on lean alcohol. As was said earlier, the main concern is, in fact, strong alcohol. Without wanting to blame anyone here, I would just like to remind you that it has really been a policy of different governments: if we need money in the budget, we will raise excise duties. Unfortunately, by 2015, excise duty was raised at an early pace: if previously agreed on a 5% rise, it was converted to 15% and that was the start of border trade. The desire of this government to introduce a lean alcohol excise duty certainly did not contribute to a reduction in border trade. At the end of last year, I proposed to cancel the increase in excise duty on 1 February 2018. I am pleased that the government coalition supported it at least partially and that the increase was halved. I am sorry that the Reform Party did not support this. I would also like to say that, thanks to this reduction in excise duty, the excise duty on spirits is now lower than it was in 2015, increased by 15%. I mean, the ladder that came up.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U17	Thank you. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U18	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! After all, the WHO has said that in those countries where strong alcohol consumption prevails or occurs on a large scale, the risk to health is higher. The honourable colleague, the Minister of Health and Labour, also knows this. Obviously, Estonia wishes to be a European champion in taxing lean alcohol in terms of excise duty. However, you must agree with the assessment made by the operators, even though your colleague did not agree with it, that the excise duty receipts are not full and the forecasts that the government has made have literally flown into a bucket. This was predicted by the companies. Is it a message to businesses that your data is never reliable, or should something be taken into account in the Green Paper?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U19	Thank you for your question. On this point, I am of the opinion that there was no proper assessment of the proceeds of the risk associated with border trade. We are not only talking about border trade towards Latvia, but we are certainly also talking about northern border trade, or Finnish shopping tourists, whose purchases here have decreased considerably as goods have become more expensive in Estonia. The message that gets out of us, that everything keeps getting more expensive and that prices are rising, is also amplified on the other side of the bay. Certainly, these increases in excise duty, which I believe have exceeded the limit of tolerance, have an impact on the wider economy. As we can see, when people go to Latvia to buy alcohol, the car tank is also fueled, groceries and construction goods are bought, and services are consumed. It's a worrying trend. I think that the emergence of border trade is a great place for thinking at all and perhaps a good lesson for us in general, that it does not work out so that we keep raising taxes and more money is coming, but that there is a limit to tolerance somewhere. I think this is a broader message that we should all consider.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U20	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U21	Thank you, Minister. To my observation that the government is united in talking about how the Reform Party led both the former and the current government, and Sven Sester was actually his instrument, you only replied that the Reform Party was not willing to raise excise duty yet. That's great! We understand that you have adopted the concept that you are still led by the Reform Party. But tell me if the Reform Party is also in charge of European alcohol policy. Both ministers who have spoken here have spoken very much about strong alcohol. How have we achieved that the whole of Europe is clearly taxing lean alcohol more lightly and stronger alcohol? Tell me how the Reform Party has achieved this.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U22	Thank you. As to how the Reform Party achieved this, I will not speculate. But also lean alcohol is divided in many ways. The fact is that it is for young people that lean alcohol is a major risk factor, with the help of sweetened drinks that they learn to drink. It is not justified to keep the price of this type of alcohol below the price of other types of alcohol by means of excise duty in this respect.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U23	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U24	Next, Minister of the Interior Andres Anvelt will answer and ask Henn Põlluaas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U25	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. We have the right number of radar observation points all over Estonia, which monitor what is happening at sea. Is it true that the PBA and the Ministry have discussed the closure and transfer of on-site monitoring points to Tallinn?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U26	Thank you. Yeah, it's true that that's what's going on. The aim is to make the process easier to manage and to exchange information with all our partners, namely the Maritime Administration and also the Defence Forces, better. This will take place in the coming years.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U27	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U28	Thank you. How does this plan fit into today's government's goal of taking as many jobs and jobs out of Tallinn as possible to enable employment and job creation elsewhere as well? At the moment, there are a number of people working at all these radar observation points, who probably will remain unemployed because they are hardly coming to Tallinn. How does it affect, say, competence? Those who work there know exactly if there's a stone on the radar or if it's a seagull, etc. In Tallinn, new people should start learning all this.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U29	Thank you. Believe me, it doesn't really matter whether we're watching the gull from Kunda or Tallinn, the gull is just as visible. Now, more seriously, I certainly dare to say to you that the government's plan has always been a plan, not only for this government, but also for previous governments, to reduce duplication of activities in the state system, including the Ministry of the Interior. The Ministry of the Interior will contribute to the creation of new jobs in the coming years by transferring its services to rural areas. A good example is that the Bureau of Traffic Procedures or, if explained in a simpler language, those officials dealing with procedures initiated by speed cameras and other technical means will move to Ida-Virumaa, for example, in the coming years. So the Department of the Interior is creating these positions as it sees fit, but it certainly doesn't create them in duplicate, just so there's some place out there. I certainly dare say that all people who have done this work on the ground are invited to continue this work in Tallinn. Once again, however, I stress that the Police and Border Guard Board and the institutions of the Ministry of Internal Affairs will contribute to providing alternative work on the ground if people do not want to come to Tallinn.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U30	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U31	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Secretary, I understand you don't share much about guarding the border, just like this police company. Even boat patrols have been reduced so much that they are almost gone on our coast. And now if that radar scan is transferred here... There are people on guard who do not know the local situation at all, neither Hiiumaa nor the surroundings of Saaremaa. I can't imagine how far behind this table this patrol is being run. It's completely incomprehensible, it's just once again the police department's huge savings when it's pulled together at the expense of the border guards, but either the border gets guarded or it can't be seen for a long time that the police department doesn't care.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U32	What was your question?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U33	There was a question. That's where you take the question if you want it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U34	I'm sorry, but I didn't understand the question. First of all, you had a question about my competence. I certainly promise that I will complete myself in the field of internal security, all these decades must have gone completely wrong. But really, forgive me for the guilt. The second thing, when we talk about it, as the Police and Border Guard Board would not contribute to the development of border guards, must be taken into account that, in my opinion, some of the major investments in recent years have been linked precisely to the construction of border control control posts and also to the construction of the border, which we are still talking about today in the following points. So I dare say to you that the role of border guards has increased year after year since the development of relations with our eastern neighbour several years ago. It is also possible to talk here about the additional recruitment of high-speed responders and many other factors. As regards the fact that we want to use as many IT solutions as possible to guard the border, so that the border is technically covered, this is indeed one of the objectives. I think that our human resources are such a gold-worthy and important factor in guarding the border, so that the things that can be done with technology can be done. If we can replace the patrol by, for example, drone monitoring or radar surveillance, then this is a very important development for the future. People need to manage these processes, not just performers.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U35	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U36	The next question to Minister of the Interior, Mr Anvelt, is asked by Artur Talvik. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U37	Thank you, Chairman. Good minister! The price of border construction went up 2.5 times. Where did this bypass come from when assessing the cost of border construction, and how did it come out so suddenly? And the second part of the question: What is the purpose of building this border? Could they be again, I don't know, like the wages of the rescuers?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U38	Thank you. I'll start at the back. It is certainly impossible to cover investments with personnel costs, in accordance with the principles of the state budget. But if I now go to the content of the problem, yes, today it can already be very clearly confirmed that the calculations and calculations made in 2014 were made in haste and the input was still limited in order to make decisions. I have initiated an internal audit in order to determine whether the activities carried out in 2014 in order to submit estimates relating to border construction to the Government Office for decision-making had been carried out within this time frame of 1.5 to 2 months with all the capabilities that could be contributed during that period and which circumstances were not clarified. But let's put another process aside here. In 2015, planning started. It lasted for two years and involved all kinds of specialists and research. It turned out that if the border were to be established for the next generation, i.e. for at least 20 years, so that this border would remain and be worthy of the Estonian state, it would serve all interests, the interests of anti-trafficking and anti-illegal border crossing activities, as well as the deterrent that is taking place in the direction of the eastern neighbour, the investments must be considerably higher. But my time is up, and I'm waiting for the next question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U39	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U40	Thank you! Can you tell me who is responsible for this unprofessional calculation? The other half of the question is: does Estonia really need such a gilded border as the much longer border of our neighbouring country, Latvia, with Russia and Belarus, will only be covered by 19 million investments? We are going to make a gold line here, but in a few hundred metres, from the side of Latvia, all kinds of dangers, as you said before, are going to come in free.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U41	Let us begin by saying that, now that we are talking about Latvia today, we are talking a lot about Latvia, but if it is a neighbouring country that is dear to us, Latvia has, yes, initially made plans that the border will be cleaned and covered with something that we essentially call an animal barrier. Monitoring capabilities are still under development. By the end of 2018, only 26 kilometers from the 93 km that are planned to be built. We, as we know, have a border of 300 miles. Luckily, we have a lot of water borders where the activity is much cheaper. The question is whether we are doing this temporarily, for some time, for five or six years, or whether we are doing a barrier fence with a guarantee of conservation for at least 20 years. It is a garden that can also be fitted with modern monitoring techniques. We do not have to measure our neighbours in many things, but we have to take the lead. Why? If we also look at what is happening beyond the eastern border, at the new technical tools that are being developed there, or at the use of drone capacity with drones, for example, in the case of smuggling, for example, there has already been a transfer of secret smoke, for example, and this is an ever-growing area, I think that investment at national borders is certainly not an overinvestment. It's an investment in the safety of our people and our people.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U42	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U43	Thank you. Minister, you cannot be blamed for this problem that has arisen at the border. I can totally understand that. It is a good thing that you have highlighted this problem and this disadvantage, but this problem is still due to your predecessor, who in 2014, after stealing the suitcase, remembered that the Riigikogu elections were coming, it was necessary to do a show, and this was done in such a way that the technology was introduced and the border was broken. But I still have a question. If the border is designed, the designer will also make an estimate. I don't understand how they found out so late now that there are such huge deficits. Is the designer guilty or what's the matter? It doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U44	Thank you for your question. Yeah, I'll tell you right away about the movement, whether the information moved from the Police and Border Guard Board to the Home Office with the necessary speed to the Minister of Internal Affairs has to explain the internal audit. Predictably, I can say that the first border plan was received in December last year. The border was planned in several pieces, divided into 11 sectors, covered in layers with different capabilities. In January, the Police and Border Guard Board held further negotiations with the planning company to clarify the planning work. As you know about the media, at the moment that this information was submitted to the Ministry of the Interior and it turned out that construction could be 2.5 times more expensive, I took control or supervision measures for this process. But I will say once again that the purpose of the monitoring is to determine whether in 2014 all the possibilities were really exploited or misplaced in the initial planning process because of someone's negligence or sloppyness. This is an important thing that needs to be identified. But the second thing is definitely that all the specialists who have followed this process say that planning a section of the border to this extent and even making an estimate over a period of one and a half to two months is simply not physically possible, even without, for example, these test sections, which had to be decided later.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U45	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U46	Let's look at the construction of the highways, we'll see the same processes there.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U47	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U48	The next question is for the Minister of Health and Labour, Jevgeni Ossinovski, in the role of Prime Minister. Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U49	Thank you, good Chairman. Mr Ossinovski! The most correct addressee of my question is, in fact, Jüri Ratas, but since he is not in front of us today and you are in charge of the Prime Minister's duties, I am therefore also asking you my question. For a few months, such expressions and rhetoric have been infiltrating the speeches of the Prime Minister's Party, the politicians of the Central Party, that Estonia has essentially occupied itself and how the present Estonia will compensate for the damage caused by the occupying party, thereby entering the shoes of the legal successor of the Soviet Republic, which is essentially quite confusing. Yesterday, however, it was reached in this Chamber that the speech on behalf of the Prime Minister's Party informed us about the Riigikogu's remoteness that because of the fact that Estonia is being prepared for its 100th birthday, we are currently dealing with the second Republic of Estonia. The consequences of denying legal continuity are very ugly. Have you addressed this issue in a coalition of government, in a power union, in this way, and are you planning to raise it in this form?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U50	Thank you very much for this question. The answer to the question whether we have dealt with this: we have not addressed it. Indeed, I read this speech because you kindly informed me that you wanted to ask about it. Of course, I can express the Government of the Republic and my own personal position; the speeches made by the members of the Riigikogu are not appropriate for me to judge in this form. The members of the Riigikogu have the right to express their opinions, and they are responsible for their own words. I am certainly not going to take on the role of the chairman of the Centre Party here either, which concerns opinions within the Centre Party on different subjects. But of course, according to both the government and my personal opinion, Estonia is about to be 100 years old. The Republic of Estonia was declared on 24 February 1918. Legal consistency is one of the most important pillars of our own existence and, of course, governments have been and will continue to follow through the ages.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U51	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U52	Thank you for that answer. Of course, I have noticed this attempt to reduce these statements in any way or to reduce their importance precisely as if it were someone's past and personal opinion. But once again, this speech yesterday at this parliamentary board was held as a speech by the representative of the Estonian Prime Minister's party; it was not just any birthday table talk or anything around the corner. This was a speech by the representative of the Estonian Prime Minister's party. Indeed, thought games and public statements that call into question legal continuity must not be tolerated. My second question is: what do you think can be done precisely in the current government union, so that such statements are not tolerated or become new normalities?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U53	Thank you. I do not support restricting the freedom of expression of members of the Riigikogu. I think members of the Riigikogu have the right to express their opinions. It is not without doubt that words have weight and, of course, they also have to explain their words, and if explanations are insufficient, it will probably also be appreciated by the voters. There are people in both you and my party who have said or done something from time to time that is not really appropriate. There are also things that can be morally deplorable or even illegal. The party is a big organization. After all, political parties deal with such cases because of their own organisational culture. Do I share the organizational culture of the Centre Party in all matters? No, I don't. My party's organizational culture is different. As regards, as has been said, concrete statements, as a representative of the Government of the Republic, I can say that the foreign policy foundation, direction and principle of action of the Government of the Republic is that the Republic is legally consistent. There were also many other things in this speech that the foreign policy course of today's government is either in direct conflict or at least does not match. But about what this course is, Foreign Minister Sven Mikser talked about for a long time last night. The fact that the members of the Riigikogu may have a different view of this applies to democracy. The moral assessment you give, your party gives, the people of Estonia give or Oudekki Loone your own party, you can all decide for yourself.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U54	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U55	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! In your answers, you said that a member of the Riigikogu may be free in its statements. I ask you this: have you been free in your statements? When I look at recent events, I will remind Urmas Reinsalu of the vote of distrust and wonder whether our country is consistent, whether it is one Estonia or another, it seems to me that even today, if you are acting Prime Minister, you are not free in your statements. This free conduct could mean that you could simply not tolerate certain things and directions as party chairman. Where's the line you want to be free?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U56	Thank you. Philosophical discussion about the concept of freedom and its scope is a little difficult to hold in the Riigikogu Question Time format. I've been thinking a lot about this subject, and we can continue this discussion outside this format. As for my opinion on the subject raised by the questioner, I said my position, which is also the position of the Government of the Republic: the Republic of Estonia is legally consistent, it has been declared on 24 February 1918 and will soon be 100 years old. Whether the speaker mentioned tried to put it into question or not, I cannot appreciate it. This wording certainly did not succeed, so he must explain his own words. The question of the essence of Estonia's legal continuity does not undoubtedly serve Estonia's interests.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U57	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U58	Andres Anvelt, Minister of the Interior, asks Uno Kaskpeit. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U59	Thank you. Mr. Home Secretary, today you can devote a lot of your time to the border. Do you think it makes sense to build this garden and spend money in the swamps that the border runs through, or do you think it would make sense to make decent patrol tracks there, cover this area with sensors, and just create access roads for border guards? I'd like to hear your point of view. Is it worth wasting money in the swamp?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U60	Thank you. Surely there is no point in wasting money at all; money must be spent wisely and wisely. When we look at the border, the details of the land border, or the construction of our southeast border, we see very different sections there. There are patrol tracks, there are ATV tracks, there are tracks for heavier trucks. It's not built as a standard highway for the entire 135 km, certainly not. We are now looking very closely at the project, where one or the other can be replaced by, for example, technical capabilities or other forms of access. Everything you've said is currently under review and consideration. I hope the cabinet can discuss this tomorrow. The Ministry of the Interior and the PBA present these opportunities where it is possible to make some changes to the existing project without undermining the security and quality of border surveillance. You are right that the capability of technical monitoring is a very important component alongside physical infrastructure, but here I must stress that access is needed and infrastructure is also needed to ensure modern monitoring capabilities. So we must also talk about some infrastructure capacity in the context of a swamp or bog. At the same time, in Värska, for example, there are nearly 20 kilometres, which are covered only by technical capabilities.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U61	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U62	Thank you. Mr. Minister! Recently, this 10-meter strip ran through the press. Now it was suddenly discovered that the trees could fall on that strip from 10 meters and break the fence, so that 10 meters would be gained. But what do you think if you make a 20-meter strip and there's still a full forest growing there, doesn't a tree fall from 20 meters to that fence? Again, it shows that these things have been done without thought. I don't know who planned this border building and figured it out. Was it even discussed with reasonable people?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U63	I don't think so, but I'm sure all the people who work for the Police and Border Guard Board are reasonable people. They will, by the way, also undergo a health check, otherwise they will not be able to work there. But I also dare say that it has been people with border guards who have been involved in the construction of the border and this project from the outset. That's point one. Point two is that the 10-metre border band is the result of a government regulation in the 1990s. At the time this 10-metre strip was chosen, there was no really deep research background. Why would this boundary strip be more than 10 meters wide? In fact, I'm not rushing to say that it's 20 meters wide because in some places it is 10 meters and in some places it may even be more than 20 meters wide, everything depends on the natural environment. If we're talking about the fall of trees, that's exactly what it is that we have to look at, I say once again, this natural environment, the dangers that can interfere with the border infrastructure. Just as we are talking about the wider areas of the border band, there are, to a large extent, bends where, for example, a wider band is needed for transport, construction and later maintenance, for example, so that these same jobs are much cheaper. Current calculations show that the occasional expansion of the border band will reduce the cost of building and maintaining the border by nearly EUR 1 million in the future. All these processes have come out in most of them using test sections. So I wouldn't be very critical of those people who didn't see these things coming at first, because it was the test sections that showed these bottlenecks.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U64	Thank you. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U65	Thank you, Mr President. Very honourable Minister! You have mentioned in many of your statements that you, as Minister, were quite certain that this time was short and that this construction could not have been paid so little. Although I think you, as a practitioner, have encountered situations where you have three opinions that the procurement could fit within some boundaries, but then it turns out that even the difference between offers can be up to double. Instead of focusing perhaps on whether someone calculated wrong or whether the volume of work was planned to be smaller than what we know today, let alone the increase in construction prices, you are just as eager to find additional resources to complete this limit? Why do we have to discuss it in this Chamber and feel like indirect guilt about wanting to build a border, but not worry about it not being done for decades? Can't we focus today on building a border? We talked earlier about excise duties. This downfall would be...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U66	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U67	... could actually have been covered with positive results, then could have gained 50 million euros to the border.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U68	Thank you. Alcohol excise so much that alcohol excise from one area serves a little other interests, the purpose of which is that people drink less. But I'm not gonna climb into other people's business. I say very clearly that, in my opinion, the only and most important objective is the construction of the border, that the border, as I mentioned earlier, would be worthy of the Estonian state, would create security for our people, and would give a very clear deterrent signal to all those who try to cross the border physically and in the future more and more, by the way, by moving above the border in the air. In fact, the Police and Border Guard Board is responsible for air borders up to 300 metres high. Today's technical tools are creating more and more problems there. Why is the past dealt with? Well, who doesn't remember the past, lives without a future, you can say. It is clear that such changes in the use of our common opportunities, or taxpayers' money, need to be clarified. Questions need to be clarified as to how such highly misleading calculations were created, whether they were based on objective data and were due to their own time, or whether they were subjective. This must be made clear, which under no circumstances reduces the importance of border building. Once again, I stress that the Estonian state will have a border, a good border. I think that in the near future we will also introduce to the public the pace of work and the additional needs that we will have in the coming years.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U69	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U70	The Minister of Finance, Toomas Tõniste, answers and asks Andres Ammas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U71	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! Unfortunately, according to senior politicians, the role of the Riigikogu in dealing with the state budget has decreased from year to year. The composition of the Riigikogu has also been considered about this, and the state budget control committee has produced a report with concrete proposals. The Free Party Group submitted a draft to the proceedings some time ago on the subject of amending the State Budget Act and bringing the approval of the state's budget strategy to this large hall. It is now being dealt with by the Committee on State Reform. The officials of the Ministry of Finance have been understanding, but they have always referred to a narrow time frame between the spring economic forecast and the reporting of data to Europe. Minister, please state your position on the greater involvement of the Riigikogu in the drafting of the state budget strategy.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U72	Thank you. I think that the Riigikogu certainly has a very important role to play here and, if it is interested, it will be able to have a greater say. When we talk about the state budget, it has to be said that it is a one-year process, but the country's budgetary strategy is made for a medium-term period, i.e. a four-year period. In these discussions, which will start very intensively on 1 March, I will meet with ministers in turn to review their priorities and objectives together, as well as their budgetary opportunities. Members of the Riigikogu can invite ministers, if they are interested, either to present their political group or committee the priorities, objectives and directions which they consider important, and perhaps during the discussion there will also be opportunities to communicate their ideas and ideas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U73	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U74	Honorable Minister! Yesterday, the Committee on Monetary Affairs discussed the same subject, and some ideas emerged during the discussion. How do you now see the role of the Committee on Monetary Affairs? Would you like to clarify, however, I did not hear your position on whether you think the Riigikogu should endorse the state's budget strategy? Do you see the possibility of the Riigikogu discussing this as an important national issue, or could it be done in some other form? Of course, members of the Riigikogu always have the opportunity to invite ministers to a political group or committee, but there is a big difference between whether a problem is being discussed before the final adoption of the budget strategy or whether the members of the Riigikogu are being informed afterwards, just as the press and the public are being informed at all. Please, can you be more specific?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U75	Thank you. As a minister, I really cannot prescribe to the members of the Riigikogu what they can and can do. If they have that desire, they can come up with that initiative. But today, yes, this narrow time frame, which was once mentioned here, is that, by the end of April, we will have to present our budgetary strategy to the European Union so as to get acquainted. There, in fact, the Government of the Republic sets objectives, priorities and also the so-called financial capacity. Certainly, I will say it again, I would be happy to see the Riigikogu participate more actively in this process.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U76	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U77	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! My question concerns the country's budgetary strategy and the European Union's subsidies for the years 2020 to 20/21. I'll give you an example. I'll take the figures from the Ministry of Social Affairs. Currently, 645 million will be supported. 90% of these activities, say officials, should continue in the next period, i.e. from 2021. At the same time, the European Union's support, which is very noticeable, will decrease by around 40%. The National Audit Office in its proposals has said that, in fact, certain activities should be planned in the state budget, i.e. strategy, as of the next year, 2019. My question is very specific: in which areas and where exactly are the activities planned in the next country's budget strategy, in order to be able to emerge from the problem of EU subsidies being reduced?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U78	Thank you. As I said earlier, these discussions will begin at the beginning of March. One of the orientations of the Ministry of Finance is certainly to set clear objectives which could also be met in the light of a possible reduction in EU subsidies. Today, we really cannot yet talk about how much European Union resources will decrease, it is estimated that it will be up to 40%. Estonia is working very hard here to make sure that this fall is not so large financially. If we consider here that we are also hoping to receive an estimated 900 million subsidies for Rail Baltic, if we put more direct subsidies for agriculture here, we hope that they will grow, and that we hope to receive funds for decoupling our energy networks from Russia, then we will see that in fact, in the next budget period, the total amount may not be less than it was in that period.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U79	Thank you, ministers: in the duties of the Prime Minister of Evgeny Ossinovski, Toomas Tõniste and Andres Anvelt! Honourable Riigikogu, there is so much time left to ask, not answer. So Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U80	Honourable Riigikogu! Let's start the Wednesday hearing. Transfer of pre-claims and enquiries. Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U81	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, The Free Party Group will pass on the draft decision of the Riigikogu, which we propose to the Government of the Republic to introduce a so-called 1% law, whereby all Estonian people who have paid income tax can direct 1% of their taxable income to their suitable NGOs. It is a tax or method that is used in several European countries. Our aim is to introduce such a system to make NGOs "freer" and to give citizens an excellent opportunity to participate in small-scale national budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U82	Liisa Oviir, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U83	Thank you. I would like to submit a draft application submitted by 65 members of the Riigikogu to the proceedings of the Riigikogu. The title of the statement is 'Thanks to the creators, protectors, keepers and restorers of the Republic of Estonia'. In view of the approaching 100th anniversary of the Republic of Estonia, it is appropriate for the Riigikogu, as a representative of the people, to express its gratitude and respect for those who have fought for the creation, protection, preservation and restoration of the Estonian state. Thanks to these people, we can go today to celebrate the 100th anniversary of the Republic of Estonia as a free state. It is the representative of the people that has the mandate to pay tribute and express gratitude on behalf of the Estonian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U84	I have adopted two drafts. The Board of the Riigikogu takes them to the procedure provided for in the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act. Incoming check, please! 85 members of the Riigikogu are present.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U85	Let's start the trial. Our first item is the first reading of the draft law amending the State Assets Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Initiator waitress, finance minister Toomas Tõniste, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U86	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Estonian state owns a stake in 29 companies that continue to operate, and according to the basic principles of the government union, several of them are intended to be partially or wholly privatized. In different ways, the Port of Tallinn, Enefit Green, Eesti Teed, a subsidiary of AS Eesti Energia, and the extent of possible minority participation in private capital are also analysed in the case of AS EVR Cargo. In the case of two of these companies, the Port of Tallinn and Enefit Green, private capital is to be mobilised through the securities market by listing shares on the stock market. The state owns companies primarily from a sector-specific public interest point of view, but in these companies we have reached a stage of development in which competitive conditions operate and the main aim is to generate income for owners. Therefore, the State must behave in a manner similar to that of a private investor for these companies and can waive the specific rules intended to ensure the achievement of the sector-specific public objectives. As regards the listing of shares in public undertakings on the stock exchange, the State must reduce itself as owner to the same situation as other shareholders. The State cannot have priority over other shareholders and the State must not require the application of policies that are not in accordance with exchange rules or exchange practices. Therefore, the Government of the Republic has submitted to you a draft amendment to the State Assets Act, which we wish to provide that a company listed on a stock exchange or making an application for it is not subject to the requirements laid down in the State Assets Act, which are not in accordance with exchange rules or exchange practices, to the management of the company, to the disclosure of information and to specific control. The addition to the Act is formulated as a general rule without reference to specific provisions of the State Property Act in order to ensure flexibility in compliance with the requirements when they change over time. The main change in substance compared to today will be that the information sources of the state as owner will change. The State places itself in the same information space as other shareholders by waiving the requirement to provide non-public information and, as owner, will decide on the basis of the information disclosed at the same time to all shareholders. In the future, the publicly listed company would not submit to the State any minutes or material of the board of directors and long-term financial forecasts of the company. In addition, the decision-making mechanism of the subsidiaries changes, where the compulsory nature of decisions at the level of the general meeting disappears and the State is no longer able to use its own structural unit for the purpose of carrying out specific checks under the Commercial Code. The dividend decision-making process is also changing. Instead of the annual amount of dividends approved by the Government of the Republic, the governing minister will base his participation on the long-term dividend policy to be agreed. In conclusion, with the amendment to the draft, we will ensure that the publicly listed company operates on the basis of normal business principles and in a way that is understandable to the private investor. This will help to achieve the fair value of the shares of the public undertaking both to the State and to the private investor. Moreover, according to generally accepted practice, publicly-listed and publicly-listed companies contribute to the development of the capital market by increasing the liquidity and attractiveness of the stock exchange, both in the eyes of investors and issuers. All of this together contributes to the development of the Estonian economy. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U87	Questions for the initiator of the draft. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U88	Honourable Chairman! Dear Minister, I do not have a question about the specific provision of the Treasury Act that is being amended here, but I do have a question about listing shares in the securities market at the Port of Tallinn. When we discussed an earlier draft here, which also concerned this listing, I asked the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Kadri Samson, about this matter. The point is that this year the state will take the usual dividend from the Port of Tallinn, 45 million euros, but in addition to the so-called superdividend associated with listing, over 60 million euros. My question was why it was decided to put it in the liquidity reserve, but not in the stabilisation reserve, where it could belong. The Minister of Economic Affairs said that the Minister of Finance...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U89	Thank you. The question has been asked.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U90	... was opposed to the task of directing it to the stabilisation reserve. Why did you object to placing this extraordinary dividend in the stabilisation reserve?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U91	Thank you. I didn't really mind. But what I'm saying is, I think it makes perfect sense that he's in a liquid reserve.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U92	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U93	Thank you. The question concerns the possible privatisation of the Port of Tallinn or its entry into the stock market. A great thinker from Tallinn Aivar Riisalu, who has also been a member of your party and has been in the Centre Party, has expressed his sentiments that the city should participate in the IPO of the Port of Tallinn and buy a piece from it. It seems incredibly unreasonable to move this participation from one taxpayer's pocket to another. It's all expensive and incomprehensible. The state, the city and the Port of Tallinn should be able to cooperate more wisely. Kadri Simson didn't answer the question about how he felt about it. I will take this opportunity to ask you what you think as Minister of Finance: should the City of Tallinn really take a loan to buy a stake in the Port of Tallinn?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U94	Thank you. I don't think that makes any sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U95	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U96	Thank you. Dear Minister, I will specify my question. You said that it would be more reasonable to put this superdividend into the liquidity reserve than to put it in the stabilisation reserve. Look, yeah, let the standard dividend go into the liquidity reserve, but we're talking about an extraordinary dividend that can be taken once, in connection with privatisation or listing. It's just like when a family sells their silverware. He doesn't use that money for a southern trip. How do you justify that this one-off extraordinary income, tens of millions, must be in the liquidity reserve from which it goes for budgetary expenditure, not in the stabilisation reserve, which has not even reached the pre-crisis level?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U97	Thank you. The stabilisation reserve will grow from year to year, and it will grow by nearly 7 million this time. In this time of negative interest, it is a real cost to us. I think we should review in the long term how much it makes sense to keep in reserve, without affecting the stabilisation reserve, which is certainly very necessary, but when we talk about the liquidity reserve, it is a separate issue. Since this is still the undistributed profit of earlier periods of the Port of Tallinn, which is now being taken out as a superdividend, I do not see any problem if it goes into the liquidity reserve.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U98	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U99	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! Your last response gives the impression that, since interest is so low, it would make sense to spend this money quickly. Would it be worth taking that money now if there is no reasonable place to spend it? The budget has already been made with a minus. In my opinion, the Port of Tallinn is certainly not the company that should necessarily be sold. After all, it operates perfectly rationally in its management and could benefit the country at any time. Taking this money into consumption at the moment when the economy has almost reached its maximum or has already exceeded its maximum does not seem very reasonable. Or...?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U100	Thank you for your question. I was just pointing out that our reserves, if we hold them, are not growing now, but rather it is a cost. We need to make it very clear to ourselves that they will be reduced by the negative interest that the world has. When we talk about whether or not to use this money in consumption, neither the liquidity reserve means that it will necessarily be spent.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U101	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U102	Thank you. Good minister! Why don't you go over the companies that are going to be privatized one more time? I recall taking up the new government. Then a highly active privatisation plan or stock market plan was promised, which was in itself great, one of the few things that deserved to be praised in this economic programme. However, we can now see that the processes are slowly stretching and some companies have been taken out of this scheme, I think Eesti Teed, Omniva is out, etc. Has the stock market been paused, as Mr Ossinovski said about building the country?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U103	Thank you for your question. No, I wouldn't say there's been a change of plans here right now. The Port of Tallinn wishes to carry out IPO in the second half of this year. Enefit Green's IPO is expected to take place in the second half of the year. AS Eesti Teed's sales preparatory activity is ongoing, currently MKM is working to find a consultant and could ideally take place during this year. In the case of EVR Cargo, the direction is taken to include private capital in a subsidiary of the wagon business. At the moment, EVR Cargo is not actively involved in the plans to dispose of the State's shareholding, but since EVR Cargo's profitability is based on its two-year activity and the fact that the activity has grown strongly, I also do not exclude that it may be reasonable to discuss the privatisation of EVR Cargo at least this year in the study.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U104	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U105	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! In your reply, however, you indicated that it was not right for the city of Tallinn to participate in this process. But as a minister, would you perhaps say that it is never reasonable for a taxpayer, or local governments, to participate there? And in that case, should the law be amended so that there is no possibility?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U106	Thank you. After all, every local authority decides where it is useful to place money, it is then free public transport, it is schools, it is an education of interest, etc. I wouldn't want to be too limited here, but I've just given my opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U107	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U108	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. To me personally, this partial sale of shares in the Port of Tallinn seems, figuratively speaking, to me, to be the semi-selling of a great and good dairy cow. I can't find an analysis in the explanatory memorandum, for example, of how much we're going to lose in future periods, if we count the current dividends that we're going to miss out on. The strangest thing is that the money we get is simply being used to patch the hole created by the government's stupid excise duties.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U109	Thank you. If the State places its shareholding in the company on the stock exchange, it is in fact always the point of discussion as to whether the whole picture results in a better combination of dividend income and the funds received from the disposal of the shareholding. I think that the inclusion of know-how will be useful here, including the fact that we are developing capital markets, it will be useful, and the state as a whole will receive decent dividends.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U110	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U111	Thank you, good Chairman. Good Minister of Finance! There was already talk here about this general government privatisation plan. I'd ask your opinion, too. Do you think that the parcel business somehow belongs to the core functions of the state, whether such a thing should exist in the country, or whether it should rather move towards privatisation? The second question, is there plans to move forward with privatisation in the aviation sector as well?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U112	Thank you. I think that the privatisation of Eesti Post could be one of the things worth moving forward with, because it is actually a subject of completely free competition. I don't see why it should definitely be state-owned. The same is true of aviation.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U113	There are no further questions for the initiator of the bill. Thank you, Minister. The rapporteur for the Commission is Erki Savisaar, member of the Economic Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U114	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed this draft on Tuesday, 6 February, including. The draft was presented to us by Minister of Finance Toomas Tõniste and Deputy Head of the Public Assets Department of the Ministry of Finance Tarmo Carrots. The review of the changes made to the law was just as thorough as it was just a moment ago in this remote control. Additional questions were raised at Tarmo Kruusimäe, for example, who pointed out that the explanatory memorandum also mentions the regulation of sponsorship and asked whether changes in sponsorship would be made to this draft. Tarmo Carrots explained that the explanatory memorandum described changes to the State Assets Act a year ago. Public undertakings have so far been banned from sponsorship, the provision included in the draft provides a margin of discretion for shareholders of commercial transactions in publicly listed securities on the sponsoring issue. Toomas Kivimägi asked for examples of the provisions of the State Property Act that conflict with the rules of the securities market and the requirement of equal treatment of shareholders. Tarmo Carrots explained that the greatest differences are in the level of shareholder information. In public undertakings, the State has access to long-term financial forecasts, the minutes of the company's board of directors and meeting material, but the shareholders of the stock exchange companies do not receive such information. State-owned enterprises are required to provide financial forecasts for the next four years, on the basis of which dividends and capital needs are planned for the state budget. Exchange companies shall not disclose long-term financial forecasts in order to exclude potential loss claims by shareholders resulting from the uncertainty of the forecast. The Minister added that this draft makes it more difficult for the State to forecast revenue and expenditure. At the end of the debate, it was decided by consensus that the first reading should be closed and that the deadline for submitting amendments would be 10 working days; then the deadline would be 28 February 2018 at 17.00. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U115	Any questions for the Commission's waitress? No, it's not. Thank you, Erki Savisaar! I'm opening negotiations. No call request. First reading of Bill 570 is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 5 p.m. on 28 February.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U116	Third reading of draft Act 532 amending the Aviation Act and the State Fees Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. Let's go to the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Aviation Act and the State Fees Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 532. Please take a stand and vote. 70 members of the Riigikogu with 6 votes against and 1 abstention. Bill 532 has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U117	Third reading of draft law 494 on amendments to the arms law initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Madis Milling Reform Party Group. Please! Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know if it's pre-party, but there's some serious noise. Keep it down, please! Madis Milling will tell you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U118	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that the law of arms excites you all. There is no doubt that the arms law is an extremely important law, and there is a great deal of good in this bill. In general, the draft law is crude and would have liked to be discussed substantially, even in cooperation with the National Defence Commission. I am not going to torture you very much with details at third reading, but I will repeat a couple of points that I also expressed at second reading. My penguin and colleague Igor Gräzin, who was in the first act of arms law, have said: 'Yes, indeed, we did not have anywhere else to take the template. We had to hurriedly take over a great many details of Soviet law. " Today, so many of these principles have fallen behind in time. It's also time for us to look at things with a little more open eyes. A lot of details in the arms laws are that no one can explain why this is the case and not the other way around. As we heard from the Commission's rapporteur at second reading, very many questions were not answered by the officials of the Ministry of the Interior. Let's take the number of bullets stored in the same home. There were no analyses, justifications or arguments for 200 rounds behind it. 200 rounds are good to keep at home, but 201 bullets are already dangerous to society. Practical users of weapons, instructors, trainers and internships, did not want any cosmic number. No one wanted to keep thousands or tens of thousands of bullets at home, talking about an optimal amount that would cover one day of training in the shooting range, for example, without the shooter having to go to the gun shop to bring new rounds in the meantime. There are many such details where, on the one hand, there was an argument, a statement or a number to which no justification was given and, on the other hand, arguments put forward by interested practitioners. But once again, these are all details. There is also one very fundamental thing that cannot be accepted. When the arms law began to be dealt with during the previous government, there was a desire to introduce a requirement that the weapons test be carried out in Estonian. The only thing left today is that the practical part of the weapons examination, or the rounding, must be done in Estonian. What does that mean by nature? This means that a person must be able to memorize a dozen firing commands: "Salv, five rounds! ', 'Salv confirm! ' ', 'Drop the gun and safety! ',"Are the shooters ready? ', 'A fire with single shots at its targets! ', 'The gun and the ointment for inspection show!' '. Any person who does not speak Estonian will be able to stomp them in the head with fewer than a dozen commands. Is that gonna work? He did, yes, he can listen to orders and shoot. But the theoretical side of the weapons exam means that a person has to understand the laws, the situations where a weapon has to be used. When a person performs the theoretical part of the weapons examination in Estonian, he testifies that he or she is orienting in the Estonian language room, the same room where he or she will actually carry a gun. A threat, an attack on a person's life or health, his loved ones, his property, will not occur in the shooting range. There's a danger on the street, in the public space, at home... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U119	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U120	...and there's no use in a dozen memorized firing orders. In a really dangerous situation, there is no interpreter next to a person who would say to him: 'Hey, the screaming and bloody man with an axe running towards you does not want to kill you, but he is the person seeking help, because his colleague was left under a sidewalked tractor. " In real life there is no interpreter next to it. The decision to use a firearm, or more importantly, the decision not to use it, must be taken within seconds. Let's put on the adrenaline, the exciting state of this decision must be made within a very short period of time. But if this decision is made on the surface of nonexistent or lack of language skills, the consequences may be very tragic and such as none of us want. This law, as it were, is not supported by the Reform Party Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U121	Rein Randver on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U122	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The truth is that weapons have been around us and in our use for centuries. Today, the bar of weapons is hot both in Estonia and throughout Europe and in other parts of the world. We know that the arms law has been in force since 2001 and has been the subject of dozens and dozens of changes over the years. This draft Arms Act will probably help to make Estonian society safer and ensure better control over who has the right to use the weapon and who does not. The aim is to embrace and use a firearm by a person who is reliable and law-abiding. Perhaps for many people, nothing changes significantly. The current situation is that 1.5% of arms or acquisition licence applicants do not receive a positive response. Let's hope it stays that way. The proposed amendments are also motivated by security considerations: the draft provides for the possibility of refusing to issue a weapons permit and an acquisition permit to persons who may pose a threat to national security or, if the authorisation has been issued previously, the Agency will be entitled to suspend or revoke it in the future. According to the bill, an alien residing in Estonia on the basis of a residence permit or right of residence must apply for a weapons permit under the same conditions as Estonian citizens, even if he or she has been issued a weapons permit in another country. This requirement does not apply, for example, to persons arriving in Estonia for sports and hunting purposes. The draft clarifies the language issue when taking the weapons examination, as the current law has been interpreted differently, including by allowing the Police and Border Guard Board to take the weapons examination in languages other than Estonian, for example, the Police and Border Guard Board has translated tests into Russian, English and Finnish. According to the bill, only the Estonian language will pass the weapons examination. It is also important to have a practical role here, i.e. how to handle a firearm and how to shoot. That is understandable, because we have harmonised commands. If a person does not understand them enough, there may be a significant risk to himself, to other shooters, as well as to the bystanders. After all, the rules of use in shooting ranges are in Estonian and must be complied with. The owner of weapons must also understand the command in Estonian when carrying a gun on the street. In addition, the draft provides for the possibility to pass the theoretical examination using an interpreter in another language if the person does not speak the Estonian language at an adequate level. The original text of the bill also supported the use of the silencer on all firearms in the shooting range or location, as the use of the silencer helps to reduce noise levels in and around the shooting range. In the proceedings of the Riigikogu, the possibility that all hunters can use the silencer was added. This provision was added during the discussions. Hunting is known to take place on land, both in forests and close to densely populated areas. I have also heard of successful hunting days in the reeds of Tallinn. Well, the silencer reduces the noise from hunting. Allowing a silencer to hunt does not increase the possibility of illegal hunting, as the silencer does not function in such a way that the shot is not heard at all. Ladies and gentlemen, there is also the possibility of hunting game with a bow, i.e. we are allowed a bow hunt, as from 2013. Let us ask, " What is the sound level of the archery? ' Many countries... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U123	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U124	... on the basis of experience the use of dampers is increasing, it is in some cases also mandatory, which confirms that the decision to use sound dampers in hunting is positive. The bill will make the storage of weapons more flexible. Firearms can be held in two additional storage places, apart from one main storage place, provided they are coordinated with the Police and Border Guard Board. There was also the possibility that parallel weapons permit holders could hold weapons in a single storage place, contrary to the current regime under which each person would have to have his own place of storage. This will allow parallel weapons permit holders to agree more flexibly on the storage of weapons, including the possibility for individual permit holders to store and use hunting weapons more conveniently, for example. I would point out that there is a need for clarity in the application of the law in relation to the processing of permits, which criteria, for example, are in place for obtaining or renewing a permit for arms and acquisition, and whether there is a sufficiently substantiated non-response, i.e. how the facts have been assessed in one or the other procedure. Of course, gun owners are waiting for weapons permits to be issued electronically in the e-state soon. The amendments to the Weapons Act are planned to enter into force on 1 July 2018, some of them will enter into force on 1 January 2019 due to software applications in the Arms Register. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Social Democrats support the adoption as a law of the draft law amending the law on weapons and related amendments to other laws. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U125	Henn Põllaas on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U126	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I made a rather long presentation at second reading of the bill, so I don't want to spend any more of your time. At the time, I drew attention to the ideology of the arms law. So I would also like to point out today that when this bill was put on our table, its real purpose was indirectly to collect weapons from the people. The law was full of unjustified restrictions. Today it can be said that the law has indeed gotten better. Very many of the foolishness that was in it has been reversed or avoided. But indeed, when we looked at the explanatory memorandum at first reading, we saw that all these restrictions were justified by the need to prevent crime and terrorism. Even these statistical examples tried to say that we had a Wild West in Estonia and that there were huge crimes committed with firearms, accidents caused by them and who knew what avalanche. It turned out, however, that we weren't really talking about legal weapons at all. The saddest thing is that it was precisely in the shadow of the siege of terrorism and crime that the rights of legal gun owners, honest and loyal citizens were to be restricted. We also know that the acts of terrorism committed in Europe and elsewhere in the world have been committed, not with legal weapons, but with illegal weapons. We've seen weapons picking up like this many times in history. If you go back quite far in time, you might say that in 1515 farmers, ordinary people, were forbidden to possess a sword. Soon the Livonian war broke out, and the people were defenseless. The same thing we saw after Estonia's silent surrender when the Defence League was banned, the weapons were picked up and the defence forces were essentially disbanded. The crowd was unarmed again. Fortunately, however, there were still personal weapons and the summer war was about to begin. We showed what we were thinking, we washed off the silent humiliation of surrender. Similar situations may arise in future times. As I said, some things have improved in the law, but at the same time there are a lot of unthinkable, bad decisions and provisions left in it. Colleagues Milling listed a whole series of them first. I absolutely agree with him. These are bottlenecks, this is false regulation, this is overregulation, which should not exist in a free society where citizens should be trusted. The use of the silencer was now partially permitted, but in fact there are also laser sights and night visions that should be highlighted. There's a lot of these issues. More time, please! So this law can now be partially satisfied, partly unsatisfied, especially with regard to the issue of weapons examination in other languages, etc. But the law has gotten better.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U127	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U128	Thank you. These provisions, which are now getting better and more reasonable, which have been amended and improved, will enter into force on 1 July. That's positive. The Home Office has cleared or threatened? To return to the amendments already in the autumn, including those resulting from the European Union Directive. So while we are not satisfied with this law, the Conservative People's Party supports its adoption, precisely because some positive things are about to come into force. In the autumn, I hope we can correct the remaining shortcomings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U129	Jaanus Karilaid on behalf of the Centre Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U130	Thank you to the manager. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I thank the representative of the Reform Party, Madis Milling, who acknowledged this bill, that it is certainly a step forward, and I also thank the representative of the EKRE, Henn Põllea. However, according to the reply to Madis Milling, all three representatives of the Reform Party in the Committee on Legal Affairs have participated in the meetings of the Committee on Legal Affairs and they have also had the opportunity to discuss these thoughts and solutions with you in the Committee on National Defence. I'm sure you'll be able to communicate with each other. 46 amendments had been tabled to this draft law. Quite a few were fully accounted for, some were partially accounted for. So no proposal was discussed, nor did the Reform Party politicians participate very actively in the work of the Committee on Legal Affairs. I suggest that in the future more contact with the members of my group should be maintained unless it has been withdrawn. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U131	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U132	But I'll bring out a few moments. There have been a lot of this unprotected political hysteria during the procedure for this draft, some things I would like to clarify. It would be good if you didn't ride those lies. First of all, a weapons permit for an alien under the law of arms. From now on, all foreigners will be required to pass a weapons permit examination as a permit issued abroad will not automatically be issued. Thus, under the Weapons Act, an alien must apply for a weapons permit under the same conditions as Estonian citizens, including an examination even if he or she has been issued a weapons permit in another country. Next, the question of language, which has been raised during the procedure of the draft and which has tried to paint a political ghost. The Committee on Legal Affairs also received an amendment that the weapons examination should be carried out in full Estonian in the future. To clarify, the current law allows an alien to pass an examination in his or her native language or in another language that he or she possesses. The examination will be translated into Estonian and the costs of translating the exam will be borne by the examiner. Thus, the current law allows a person who does not speak Estonian to pass a weapons permit examination using an interpreter. Why did the critics of the Reform Party not change it in 15 years, which is such hypocrisy? I don't know. You have to ask your colleagues. The aim of the current legislative amendments is to pass the weapons examination in Estonian, but to leave the opportunity to use an interpreter. The requirement to carry out the shooting test in Estonian without the help of an interpreter is added to the theoretical examination. The most important part of the exam, or practical handling of weapons, is done in Estonian according to the draft. This ensures that a person understands sufficiently basic weapons-related commands. Thirdly, compared to the regulation that has been in force so far, a threat to national security is added to the law as a possible exception to authorisation. The principle that the authorisation of weapons may be refused is therefore added if there is a reasonable suspicion that a person may endanger the security of the Republic of Estonia. If that suspicion arises later, his weapons permit may be revoked. The law also introduces the possibility of refusing to grant an authorisation to a person who has been repeatedly punished for committing an offence, as well as the possibility of withdrawing the weapons permit of such a person. In the light of these changes, it can be pointed out positively that, in the course of the procedure, the requirement that a permit should be applied for and exchanged in order to justify the need for possession of the permit and, if this cannot be sufficiently justified, that the permit may not be granted. Such proposals came from the Riigikogu and the interest groups had also pointed out that this is a very subjective assessment criterion. It is therefore not justified to include such an obligation to state reasons in a situation in which the person has fulfilled all other conditions for obtaining a weapons permit or a weapons permit. Point 4, next positive moment. In addition to the permit issued so far on paper, the bill allows for the electronic issue of a weapons permit. The introduction of an electronic weapons permit will make it easier and more comfortable for persons to apply for and hold a weapons permit, and the holder of the permit will no longer be bound by the obligation to carry a permit on paper. In order to verify the existence of a weapons permit, it is sufficient to carry an identity document. The same proposals were made during the procedure by Raivo Aeg on the Hunting Act. The documents proving the right to hunt will also be electronic in the future, and in such a case they will not have to be carried on the hunt. Fifth, registration of the weapon will be made easier. The obligation that the acquired weapon must be shown to a police officer in the Prefecture of the place of residence or location when it is registered shall be abolished. Sixth, modification of the regulation of non-guns. The regulation on the deactivation of firearms is brought into line with the common requirements in force in the European Union. In addition, the obligation to register deactivated firearms is laid down. Its aim is for the state to have an overview of who holds unarmed weapons and how many such weapons exist in Estonia. Persons shall not be obliged to apply for a weapons permit for unarmed weapons, nor shall they be obliged to carry out activities other than the registration of the weapon. We've had a lot of problems with unarmed weapons. They mainly relate to the reactivation of terrorist acts in Western Europe. The law has given a sufficient period of entry into force. This is 1 July 2018, some of the provisions will enter into force on 1 January 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U133	Raivo Time on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U134	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I also believe that this draft arms law has taken quite long and progressive steps forward in the direction that the arms law and the regulations of the arms law have been brought much closer to real life, these things have been attempted to reconcile. Many of the things that have caused discussion here in the long and long term have been resolved, whether it is the regulation of weapons in different places of residence or locations, as well as what I think is very important, that much more specifically is the regulation of the handling of non-fire weapons. The previous speaker already brought these things out by the hanger track, I don't need to go over them again. Yes, in this language debate, as it is intended to exclude this, we have also talked here about the fact that the new version of the arms law, or this amendment, will tighten the current situation when we are talking about language requirements. If today you can take the weapons examination in any language, then in the future the practical part must be done in Estonian and the theoretical part can indeed be done with the help of an interpreter. But what do we want? Do we want answers to questions in the so-called "insufficient" or in the puny Estonian language on the weapons test? Or we want to see that the person who comes to pass the theoretical weapons test understands the meaning and content of the arms law, he understands the requirements of the arms law. But, as we know, it is still best to convey it in the native language or in the language that is possessed. If this is done by an interpreter, then the recipient of the exam can also make sure that the person who has come to the exam really master the subject. The world is expanding, we are growing in numbers from other countries, from the Americans to the Finns of our closest neighbours, who live here on the basis of a residence permit, but they also have the desire and will to have a weapons permit in Estonia. Then why do we have to complicate their lives in that they can't deal with their hobbies here, whether it's a hobby shooting sports or hunting? What matters, however, is what has been tried to link to the language requirement in previous proceedings, which is a requirement of loyalty. Once again, loyalty is not guaranteed through language skills. This requires giving security authorities and law enforcement authorities the opportunity and right to ensure loyalty, as well as general compliance. But that's a whole other subject. However, the present draft Arms Act has also broadened the scope for assessing the threat to national security and public order, whether to refuse to issue a weapons permit or to withdraw an existing weapons permit. However, we often encounter a completely different problem, which we are debating here: we do not give rise to the proliferation of the police state or the total pursuit of this 'tool case'. So here too, a balance must be found as to how many and what rights we give to both security and law enforcement authorities. Mr Milling described lively danger situations. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U135	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U136	We have plenty of foreigners who go here every year for hunting or shooting matches, who do not understand a word of Estonian. They're doing great on the hunt, they're doing great on the shooting lanes. Similarly, we have the possibility that if, for example, a foreign hunter who comes to Estonia to hunt for large wild boars does not have a large game test report or he has not carried out this test, he can do it here in the shooting range in Estonia. Their shooting tests have gone smoothly. So language skills when communicating in the forest, in sports competitions or in the shooting range are not a significant problem. Now for self-defense. Come on! If there is a conflict situation that requires the use of a weapon, there will be no lengthy negotiations to make sure that someone is willing or unwilling. Decision-making takes place within a few seconds or a fraction of a second, and intuition plays a very important role. Secondly, it is very important that a person with a weapon, a greater source of danger, knows very clearly what self-defense is and what it is to cross the boundaries of self-defence. It has to be clear. This will not be made clear to him during the negotiations, if he already needs to use the weapon. In my opinion, however, it is also very important in this draft law on weapons that bureaucracy is now considerably reduced. It's the same thing that was mentioned here that you don't have to carry a permit anywhere. The concept of paperless hunting has also been introduced. We do not create more offenders by the fact that if a person is not formally in the pocket or in the pocket of a wallet at the moment, there is an opportunity to formalise a violation of weapons or hunting requirements. This has happened, this is not a claim taken from the ceiling. There are quite real examples when we have caused such offenders, although there really was no substance to the composition of the infringement. I do believe that this law on weapons must be upheld, which is a good step forward. I do not mind that the Ministry of the Interior is starting to develop a new complete text of the Arms Act, because there are indeed different changes in today's version, which have been made through the ages. It is quite clear at times that the arms law has made traceability and interpretation difficult in some ways. So for the sake of clarity, we look forward to the new full text of the Arms Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U137	The Külmiki Hatter from the Estonian Free Party will continue the negotiations. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U138	Ladies and gentlemen, In the light of this debate, it can be observed that quite a lot of things have not been discussed between us, whether it is the methods of using and storing a weapon or the one who may have a weapon, why it may be, and under what conditions it could be acquired. I don't know if you noticed this when you listened to these reports, but I hope there was no announcement of any kind of rebellion that was about to start. I think this is not the place, and this is not a debate with such a subject in which to send such messages. No one has started to collect weapons on a massive scale under this bill. I don't know where such hysterical and dramatic claims are taken from. This is a deliberate misleading of our society, and we must not allow such a thing to happen. I do not understand that when we say that the control of repeat offenders will become much easier and more effective, why is it said that they are being harmed now? I think that, if the control of ordinary offences is a problem, it is certainly not justified for these people to have a weapon. I would also like to highlight the fact that in peacetime, we should assume, at least personally, that possession of a weapon is an opportunity. It would be a bad thing to say that a weapon is in some way a luxury, but it can't be a consumer. When a weapon becomes a consumer, it can be said that there is no sense of security in society and that this situation has arisen from distrust. Whether it's deliberately or unintentionally generated, we can change it ourselves. The Free Party Group, although there are many sensible proposals in the draft, does not support this draft. We do not support this precisely because of the incomplete application of the Estonian language requirement when passing the exam. The Estonian language is the foundation of the Estonian state. On the 100th anniversary of the Estonian state, we must remember this and establish this principle by every law. Because if we value the Estonian language everywhere in our affairs, we also value the foundations of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U139	All the political groups have spoken, I am closing the negotiations. The commission's proposal was to put the draft to a final vote on 494. Let's get ready for this. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the arms law initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws 494. Please take a stand and vote. 52 members of the population voted in favour of the draft law, 33 against, and no abstentions. Draft law 494 on amendments to the arms law initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U140	We will begin the second reading of the draft Act 557 on the Accession of ships to the International Convention for the Control and Handling of Ballast Water and its sediments, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Mr. Rainer Vakra, Chairman of the Committee on the Environment of the Chair, would you like a presentation?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U141	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Before we reach the 'Culture Policy Fundamentals until 2020', we will focus for a moment on an international environmental convention. On 4 December 2017, the Government of the Republic initiated a draft Act on the Accession of vessels to the International Convention for the Control and Management of Ballast Waters and their sediments, 2004 aimed at the protection of the marine environment against alien species which may be transmitted by vessels through ballast water. The deadline for submitting amendments was 31 January at 16 a.m. in this Chamber on 17 January 2018. No amendments were received by this deadline, ladies and gentlemen. The Committee on the Environment discussed the preparation of the draft second reading at one meeting on 8 February 2018. We also made procedural decisions there. We decided to propose a second reading of the draft 557 on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by today's Valentine's Day, February 14, and a final vote. We made both decisions by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U142	As this is the second reading of the draft concerning the external agreement, up to two oral questions can be submitted to the rapporteur. You don't even want to do the first one! Dear waitress, thank you. As you have heard, no amendments have been tabled. The commission's proposal is to hold a final vote on the draft 557 and, in a minute or a half, we will do so. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft Act 557 on the Accession of ships initiated by the Government of the Republic to the International Convention on the Control and Management of Ballast Water and its sediments. Please take a stand and vote. The draft law was supported by 70 delegates, with one abstention, and no one opposed. The law has been passed. Ladies and gentlemen, many of you have already realised what will happen now. The President takes a ten-minute break so that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs can meet and read the application submitted to us at the beginning of the sitting again and decide on this procedure. Let's get back to work at 3:24.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U143	The Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu worked prematurely, but what was promised was allowed. And a ten-minute break was allowed. Now let's get back to work. The next item is the report on the implementation of Culture Policy for the year before 2020. Indrek Saar, Minister of Culture, will present the speech chair. I would like to remind you how the debate on this item is going. First the Minister's report is up to 30 minutes, then the questions. A member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to the rapporteur. Subsequent negotiations, where representatives of the political groups can take the floor. Minister, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U144	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Good cultural enthusiasts! The Republic of Estonia's 100th anniversary is one and a half weeks away. In ten days' time, we can say: our country is 100 years old and we have the freedom to ask what has kept us up for these 100 years. What is the heart of the Estonian state? Where does Estonia begin? When the new constitution was debated in 1992, Liia Hänni said from where I am now standing: 'Very many of the letters sent to us have had the opinion that the draft Constitution does not set out the purpose of our country, which should certainly also be to ensure the preservation of the Estonian nation and culture. " The letters had an effect. A sentence was added to the preamble to the Constitution, which could be considered the idea of the Estonian state: it also says that the Estonian state must ensure the preservation of Estonian culture. It seems to me that we have to be grateful to these writers afterwards. Because if you think about it a few years ago, the whole point of keeping the country was often to run into a simplified Excel table. We declared economic growth, measured by GDP, to be the country's ultimate goal, and culture was also seen to be at its service. This was often preached in depth and for a long time at the government press conference as well as in this hall, based on human greed. I am pleased that this discourse, as my good predecessor loved to say, is now over, and by the anniversary year we will be able to address the idea of maintaining the state a little more broadly and maturely. More holistic if you like. Still in the spirit of the Constitution. Estonia is not a percentage country where culture is not a goal, but, in the best case, a means of promoting economic growth, in the worst case, simply a form of entertainment. Estonia is a cultural state whose success is based on the creativity of our people. Estonia's idea is Estonian culture. There are, of course, examples where some parties call themselves the greatest Estonian friend ever, but preaches nostalgia of the Soviet regime, threatens to close the theatres, and states that nothing important has been born in Estonian culture throughout the period of independence. Inevitably, the words of Anton Hansen Tammsaare, who in 1919, or at a time when we were only fighting for independence, ironically wrote: "O, we are secretive! O, we're hypocrites! It looks like a real Estonian culture everywhere. Only old is honorable, only old age is undefiled proof. Only old property has a serious cultural asset. We cry, we blow, we scream about the past, but the present is only worth crushing. ' Estonian cultural policy is based on two beliefs. First of all, our culture is to keep the country. I know that there are countries in the world where cultural life is left to a purely market economy, but this has never been the case in Estonia, and it must never be. We are a small country and there is simply no other way. This means, however, that it is not the task of the Ministry of Culture alone to preserve Estonian culture, but for all of us. Secondly, the state must support it, but it must not prescribe it. The task of the state is to provide a framework where culture can be born, but it must be free and constantly alive. We are about 100 years old, but that does not mean that we should build a mausoleum from Estonia. It's not all internal communication from the Ministry of Culture. Let us recall once again those posters who clogged the mailboxes of this building in the early 1990s. Their message was: Estonia must protect its culture. This has been the will of this nation for a hundred years. And we are here to do the will of the people. Freedom and independence mean not primarily the economic environment, but the cultural environment. The idea of the Estonian state is not in excise rates, tariffs or percentages; the idea of the Estonian state has been from the beginning, is today and will be our culture in the future. Estonia is doing well and so is Estonian culture. Never before have our people been so wealthy, the country so protected and the culture so loved in our homeland and recognized internationally. This is confirmed, on the one hand, by the statistics of museum, theatre, cinema and concert visitors, as well as by the success of our creators around the world. It is the responsibility of the Estonian state to move its culture to other parts of the world. 'The great people may also assert themselves with mineral resources and military forces, but for the small people, this is the only way to make themselves visible on the global fairground,' wrote Valdur Mikita in his book Lindvistika, or Forest, this linguistics. We have really been successful in making Estonia and culture visible. For example, at the Venice Biennale Katja Novitskova exhibition, 40,000 people visited recordly, the prestigious New York Performa was Estonia's focus country, Paavo Järvi Estonian Festival Orchestra brings concert halls all over the world, and Arvo Pärt is the most contemporary composer in the world for the seventh consecutive year. In addition, NO99 was awarded the European Theatre Prize New Realities European Theatre Prize. Konrad Mäe's major retrospect exhibition was opened in Rome's most important museum, and Estonia is one of the focus countries of this year's London Book Fair. These are just a few examples of how Estonian culture has been able to arouse interest and enthusiasm in the world. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The responsibility for the success of Estonian culture lies primarily with the creative people and also with those who help to preserve and develop the creation. The country has supported them by providing a favourable creative environment as an open, tolerant and caring state. The state strives to be a good cooperation partner who values cultural workers with a exponential rise in wages. Western experience shows that the economy is growing when the population is educated, wealth and access to culture are more equally shared in society when the country is safe. Therefore, these areas cannot be delayed. Creative industries, which are part of the Ministry of Culture, are also a growing industry in today's world and any successful economy needs more and more creativity. That is why we have been looking for new ways to boost the development of a creative economy and to support our businesses. In August last year, we organised the first visit of the Minister of Culture with a business delegation: at the end of August a visit to Stockholm was held to offer Estonian creative entrepreneurs the opportunity to get to know the success story of Sweden and help them find partners. Since the beginning of the year, the Ministry of Culture is working with an advisor on cultural exports, whose task is to develop strategies for further helping the country to increase its export capacity in the cultural field. It should be stressed here that we are looking at cultural opportunities for economic development, of course, more widely than just creative industries and exports. For the film Estonia scheme, which was successfully launched as a pilot project, EUR 1 million had been allocated in 2017. Based on the first results, we can say that every 1 euro invested in public money has brought Estonia an additional 1.1 euros of direct tax revenue and almost 7 euros of indirect income. The interest in the scheme has been high and the scheme has been well launched. That is why we have increased the volume of the aid scheme twice this year, to EUR 2 million. We also launched this year a new support measure aimed at contributing to the organisation of large-scale cultural and sporting events in Estonia, which so far have not been able to organise them in smaller volumes or have had to end in the absence of an organisation support measure. We are talking about international events with significant economic impact, where tax revenue is higher than the support needed to organise them. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I hope you've come to see a half-page report. When preparing the 2017 report, we took into account the comments and suggestions made by the Committee on Culture in the Riigikogu last year. The scope of the structure and content of the chapters has been broadened. The structure of the report consists of two parts, the first part of which gives an overview of the general principles for the formulation and implementation of cultural and educational policies, the external activities of the internationalisation of culture and the most important events of the Estonian Presidency of the Council of the European Union. Here is a selection of key developments. I'll start with a cultural worker's salary. The fundamentals of cultural policy until 2020 states: "The state will direct itself towards raising the minimum remuneration of cultural workers and professionals with professional qualifications in employment with the state to the level of the average wage in Estonia on a full-time basis. " Three years ago, reaching the agreed goal seemed an impossible task for many. The minimum wage for a cultural worker was 731 euros, but the average Estonian wage was 1070 euros. So the fallout is over 30%. From that year, we were able to raise the minimum wage of a cultural worker to EUR 1150. The estimated average salary for this year is EUR 1280. The increase in the minimum wage is just over 200 euros, or 22%. In three years, wages have risen to 419 euros and the difference with the forecast Estonian average has decreased to 10%. In this context, it should be stressed that the wage agreement reached by the Ministry of Culture and the Central Organisation of Trade Unions of Employees, also known as the TALO, is binding only on the Contracting Parties and covers only cultural workers paid from the state budget. However, it is a call for employers throughout the cultural sector, especially local authorities, to comply with these remuneration principles wherever possible. It is a pleasure to note that the largest local government in Estonia has already done so, and I hope that the local governments that have become stronger will soon catch up with the increase in wages, which was also the main idea of the administrative reform. In recent years, in order to enable freelance artists to devote themselves to creative work, the state has found the means to support the pay of writers and artists through creative alliances. In 2017, together with the Creative Unions, 18 creative activities were supported, to which both Creative Unions received additional funding in 2018 to support three additional creative people. Honourable representatives of the people! The 2017 Year of Culture for children and young people was aimed at valuing secondary growth both as a creator and as an audience, linking up different fields of culture and bringing together a wide range of activities for small and large people. It is in symbolic terms that the cultural year for children and young people will be implemented on 1 September with the aim of ensuring that every child, regardless of their place of residence and the thickness of their parents' wallet, must be able to take part in the activities of interest. As a result of the reform, the participation of children and young people aged 7 to 19 has already increased in regular activities of interest. The availability and quality of the service has improved and a more diverse choice has been ensured in all areas of Estonia. Let me give you a few examples. The Väätsal space circle was established in cooperation with Tallinn University of Technology. Elvas opened the circles of adventure, fishing and hunting, and has become very popular with children's yoga. In Hiiumaa it is now possible to practice a block flute. In Rõuge, young people will be offered new opportunities to participate in drum circles and karate, boxing and parking practice. In Saaremaa, a new specialty is opened from autumn in the music school: a branch of folklore and folklore music. Valgamaa has created a fund for innovative solutions and organises pop-up interest groups to identify the most popular among young people. This year, the action to support recreational activities will amount to EUR 15 million, of which 500000 will be directed to umbrella organisations to develop cooperation and joint action in the field. Supported umbrella organisations should be announced by the Ministry of Education and Research tomorrow. The celebration of the 100th anniversary of the Republic of Estonia with a multi-year 'Estonian Republic 100' anniversary and culture programme is at the heart of 2018. In 2018, all European countries will pay particular attention to cultural heritage. The European Year of Cultural Heritage has begun. This is an excellent opportunity to highlight our rich cultural heritage in a way that would encourage young people to value their material heritage and to convey their spiritual heritage. I also dream that this year's disputes will be resolved by 'fish versus man'. The National Heritage Board has to hold debates with environmental officials who want to put the Hellenurme water mill, which is still fully operational, to a permanent halt at the cost of the destruction of cultural heritage and people's traditional living environment at the age of a century and the largest hydroelectric power plant in Estonia on Linnamäe. I very much hope that the forthcoming elections will not take another member of the Riigikogu to draw full of cultural heritage or to propose the dismantling of some monuments. Non-action with such hogs would be a dignified gift to the Republic for the anniversary. As of the end of 2017, there are 26538 cultural monuments in Estonia. In 2017, as Minister of Culture, I recognized eight objects as a monument, one of them being an archaeological monument and seven are examples of the valuable architecture of the 20th century in Estonia. The fact that there is a very large number of building monuments in bad or even emergency condition is a cause for concern: a whole third according to the new assessment system. In order for Estonian cultural heritage to be better protected, the new Heritage Protection Act, which was completed in the Ministry of Culture, went to public debate last week and will reach the Riigikogu in the coming months. The aim of the heritage reform is to strike a better balance between the responsibilities and rights of the sites' owners, thereby ensuring the long-term preservation of cultural monuments in the public interest. Another important keyword is the digitisation of cultural heritage, which we also raised during the Estonian Presidency. The digitalisation has certainly also been an important driver of the digital preservation obligation under the Preservation Copy Act, which entered into force in Estonia on 1 January 2017. We established it as the first country in the world. It is good to move on from material cultural heritage to folk culture. In the field of development, priorities include preserving and valuing the cultural heritage of the people, enduring the tradition of singing and dance, and creating the prerequisites for development through support for action for central and important regional organisations in folk culture. To appreciate our diverse heritage culture, we support seven cultural space programmes. These are the Setomaa, Kihnu, islands, Peipsiveere, Mulgimaa, Vana-Võromaa and Virumaa programmes. In this way, we encourage communities to cooperate and strengthen identity, to preserve the cultural and linguistic specificities of the regions, the way in which they live and practice, customs and skills. In 2018, as a result of the analysis and proposals of the Centre for Folk Culture, we increased the total financial volume of cultural programmes by 28% and now amounts to nearly half a million euros. The big event in the field of folk culture in 2017 was undoubtedly the XII Youth Song and Dance "I Will Stay." There were 36000 young people at the party. 794 folk dance and gymnastics groups and 49 collectives participated in the singing and musical choir, 585 folk dance and gymnastics groups and the musical festival. The ability of young people is also characterised by a spontaneous substitute dance on the Liberty Square in the absence of one dance show. This is certainly a good example of how children and young people are creating and wanting to create. Let's just give it a chance! In 2017, the Ministry of Culture supported 24 performing institutions, including 13 private performing institutions, eight public-owned foundations, two municipal theatres and the public-law Estonian National Opera. According to statistics, there was an increase in the number of theatres operating grants, earned ticket revenues, played performances and audiences. In March, we opened a renovated Ugala theatre building and several other theatres were able to rejoice last year about innovations that make the work smoother for both creative and technical workers and make the theatre visit more convenient for the audience. So the lavarestont was finished in the large house of Vanemuine Theatre and in Endla's large hall. The Ministry of Culture supports the production and distribution of films mainly through the Estonian Film Institute, which organises application lines and has clearly established schemes to support film production from the development of the scenario and film projects to production and distribution. In 2017, the budget of the Estonian Film Institute was 8.3 million euros, which supported film production with 2.75 million euros, plus the 'Estonian Republic 100' film projects with 3.8 million. This year, film production will increase to EUR 350000 in accordance with the state budget agreements. In the context of internationalisation, one of the major events of 2017 was the signing of the cooperation agreement on film between Estonia and France, which was long negotiated on 28 April. In 2017, the Ministry of Culture supported three state-owned foundations in the field of sound art: the Estonian National Symphony Orchestra Foundation, the Estonian Concert and the Estonian Philharmonic Chamber Choir Foundation, together with 11 industry support organisations and collectives, the most recent of which were established in 2015 in cooperation with the state and private sector Foundation Pillifond and the Estonian Festival Orchestra, insisted on carrying out their activities vigorously and the results of their work exceeded their initial expectations. In 2017 the Estonian Pillifond awarded seven valuable string instruments to top Estonian interpreters. The first donated instrument, the violin of the legendary Vladimir Sapožnin, over 400 years old, was added to the skill selection. The Estonian Festival Orchestra, led by Paavo Järvi, attended the first international concert tour in August-September 2017, giving four successful concerts in the most prestigious halls in the Nordic countries. The orchestra also recorded the first album. The introduction of Estonia to the international arena will continue this year, and concerts have already been given in Brussels, Zurich, Cologne, Berlin, Vienna and Luxembourg. Speaking of literature, publishing and books, I would like to highlight the enhancement of the outstandingness of Estonian literature and the improvement of young people's reading habits. Estonian literature becomes understandable to the world through translations. Last year, 56 of our literature books were translated into 15 languages. The London Book Fair in April, where Estonia is a focus country with Latvia and Lithuania, will certainly provide a very important boost. The country has tried to make sure that children and young people find a book friend and a passionate reader. The Centre for Children's Literature and the Ministry of Culture have a great tradition of giving a book to all children born in Estonia. The 'Estonian Republic 100' programme also gives 'Small Tree' to every child of an Estonian citizen born abroad in 2018 and entered in the population register. Libraries play an important role in increasing reading habits and ensuring access to books. In Estonia there is a library network based on the interests and needs of all users, consisting of 941 public, school, scientific and professional libraries, including 536 public libraries. People's libraries, as multifunctional centers, have been visited about 5.5 million times during the year. For the art field, 2017 was the year of reaching important milestones: participation in major international art events and institutional reorganisations were carried out. At the end of the year, the Estonian Artists' Association and the Ministry of Culture established a foundation for the Art Hall, which organises the exhibition activities of the Tallinn Art Hall. In the international arena there is visual art, in recent years it is mainly the younger contemporary art, one of the most visible ambassadors of Estonian culture. 56. Exhibition of the Estonian Pavilion of the Venetian Art Biennale The artist Katja Novitskova project 'If only you could see what I have seen with your eyes' amount, as has already been said, a record 40,000 visitors. Novitskova's second major exhibition in the past year, from June to November in the 'Earth Potential' New York City Government Park in Manhattan, was the first international art project of public space for an Estonian artist of this scale. And while Estonia participated in the Venice Biennial for the 11th time with its pavilion, the performance-art festival "Performa 17" in New York was a unique opportunity. The festival's curators chose three artists: Flo Kasearu, Kris Lemsalu and Anu Vahtra. There was also a lecture on the history of Estonian performance art and a video evening on Estonian art. A little bit of cultural journalism, too. The Cultural newspaper of the Foundation, founded and supported by the Ministry of Culture, continues to issue the most important cultural magazines and magazines in Estonia. In 2017, Uma Leht in Võru was added to the list of newspapers issued, and Müüriheleht joined in 2018. Last week's 10th anniversary Müüüreht has become an important publication on the landscape of cultural journalism, as confirmed by the study of cultural journalism carried out at the University of Tartu. The wallpaper has a specific role to play and a readership. Going under the Cultural Site of the Foundation will provide a worthy newspaper with stability, better coverage and confidence. A study by Kantar Emor's TV auditorium in January shows that ETV has taken the lead in view. This is good news because national broadcasting plays an important role in maintaining the quality and balance of the information space. In the light of the so-called false news and the emergence of manipulated information, the Estonian Public Broadcasting considers reliability to be one of the most important indicators. According to a survey by Turku Research AS, 69% of respondents trusted Estonian National Broadcasting in 2017. Of the Estonian-speaking people, 77% of the population trust the ERR, with only 52% of the Russian-speaking population. From this point of view, one of the greatest challenges is, of course, to gain the trust of the Russian-speaking population. This means that last year's new board of directors and board of directors of national broadcasting will have to find a solution to increase the interest of the non-language population in ETV+ and increase the audience of the channel. In the area of integration, the challenge is to reduce segregation and boost cooperation between different communities. Looking back to 2017, it is a pleasure that cultural life in Narva and elsewhere in Ida-Virumaa has increased significantly. Of course, we must wish Narva every success in applying for the European Capital of Culture, and we hope that this process will contribute to the cultural cooperation between Virumaa and other Estonian regions. Language cafés have contributed to the creation of a common language space. In 2017, language and self-development cafés were launched in four counties, in a total of 11 groups: Harjumaa, Ida-Virumaa, Tartu County and Pärnu County. In addition, language learning was offered at more than 30 Estonian Language and Culture Knowledge Clubs. This year, work continues on creating Estonian language houses for Narva and Ida-Virumaa. The most important events in the museum area in the Ministry of Culture were the opening of the Estonian Film Museum in Tallinn, Maarjamäe. The new building will finally provide an opportunity to exhibit the magical world of the film to all its beautiful visitors. Since 2012, the Ministry of Culture has organized the museum network in its area of administration and changed the legal form of museums based on the specific and local circumstances of each museum. In 2017, the Saaremaa Museum of Saaremaa, which is co-found by the city of Kuressaare, and the Estonian Maritime Museum. The Harjumaa Museum was handed over to the city of Keila. Dear Riigikogu, I would like to address architecture separately. At the January conference of ministers of culture in Davos, Switzerland, which began with the European Year of Cultural Heritage, a declaration was adopted calling for the development of cultural heritage and modern architecture as a whole in public space planning. In addition to preserving our existing heritage, we should increasingly value the spatial environment that is now being created, because it is this that will be the support of our cultural self-consciousness of the future. One example of how the state values the integrated living environment as an important component of achieving the SDGs is the 'Good Public Space' programme implemented under the 'Estonian Republic 100'. Its aim was to reactivate the central squares of 16 Estonian cities, main streets and their surroundings for its 100th birthday. The projects selected as a result of the architectural competitions have started to be realised. On the birthday of the Republic of Estonia, 24 February, the central square in Tõrva will be opened, construction will take place in Valga and Põlva. Spatial creation is the result of joint efforts by many actors. Sometimes when making sectoral decisions, we tend to forget that our decisions have a spatial impact. Winston Churchill has said: 'We design buildings and then build buildings for us. '''We shape our buildings; thereafter they shape us. " Small and everyday buildings, created in a way that takes into account spatial values and enriches the living environment, also strengthen the uniqueness of the site and, for the most part, offer a wide range of activities and mobility opportunities. For Estonia, the spatial environment is an important instrument for increasing international competitiveness. Spatial creation affects people's decisions in the choice of residence, family planning, investment decisions and choice of tourist destinations. In order to make Estonia's spatial development more aware, we created an expert group at the State Chancellery in cooperation with the Association of Estonian Architects. The results of the expert group's work will be an input to the agreement on common policies and principles in the field of architecture. They could also serve as a basis for shaping and implementing the country's architectural policy. I will present the interim report of the expert group to the government in March. Finally, I return to my favourite subject, which is the dignified reward of our cultural creators. At first, I gave an overview of the developments in recent years. These have taken place during the period of 'Cultural policy fundamentals until 2020'. When this development plan was adopted in 2014, there were a number of critics who said that this document might not be necessary, it is too general. As a practitioner, however, I must admit that without this development document, we would most likely not have reached where we have come from with the salaries of cultural workers. So I would very much like to thank those who were behind the birth of this document. I hope that, if we begin to prepare jointly for the development of culture until 2030, we will be able to write out bigger visions with at least the same degree of certainty. Once again, thank you for being at the birth of this document and for believing in it. There was a reason to believe in this document. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U145	Questions for the Minister will be opened by Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U146	Thank you, Minister. Over the years, I have repeatedly used this motive from the Preambler of the Constitution that culture is the only thought of the Estonian state. You started your speech with this quote, but in the following paragraphs you stopped derising essentially anonymous political opponents. There was a clue and other comments to Excel's table. Tell me if such a culture is included in the foundations of cultural policy! Is culture really about party banging and blackmailing each other? I felt really bad hearing it. I have never heard from any minister of culture such a rabid propaganda introduction. Later, the text struck a balance. Is that in the document?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U147	Thank you for your question. I did not refer to any particular politician, nor did I mention the name of any particular politician or any political party. When you felt touched, there was a reason.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U148	Please, Yoko Alender!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U149	Good manager! Minister! Your introduction to the very narrow approach to culture is really regrettable. As far as I know, most thinkers no longer use this approach. Fortunately, the rest of the speech referred to a much broader approach. However, my question concerns the digitisation of our cultural heritage. The basic document on cultural policy aims to digitise a valuable part of it and make it available to the public. What success has it made? It has been said that these objectives have not been achieved to date. You are already talking about a new document. How is the work on digitisation progressing and who is responsible for what has not been done?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U150	Thank you for your question. I'm very glad we agree. Today, indeed, culture is not considered so narrowly, and that is what I said in my speech. I am very pleased that by the anniversary year we have taken a major step forward in defining how to understand the role of culture in society. We are now looking at it more broadly as a society. As regards the current state of digitisation of cultural heritage, in 2014, when the 'Cultural Policy Fundamentals until 2020' were adopted, this plan was somewhat less ambitious than what has been completed today. At that time, three times less resources were foreseen than the current plan envisages. 2018/2025 I think this was the time of execution... No, 2023, tell me now. I think it's Soogan here with the year numbers. But indeed, it said it would be done by 2018. Basically, it could have been done, but it would have been a much worse option. This has been acknowledged by all those who have been working in different working groups, both in the field and in the ministries. Both the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, who has brought all the expertise on this technological side on the table, and the Ministry of Education and Research, who is making sure that the solution can be applied as well as possible, both have stated that it is very good that we did not rush that we did not go sluggish. We would have gotten much less for the same resource and we would have made a lot more sense. According to this analysis, everyone is pleased that they did not go in haste. Of course, it can be said that perhaps in 2014, when this objective was set, it would have been possible to foresee that all of this would take longer. However, in the case of modern technology, it still seems at the beginning that everything is done very quickly, but when it is taken into consideration, it is understood that the work takes more time and more resources than you want to do well and properly. I believe that the option we have now reached is a good one. It may even be better for a piece than we dreamed in 2014.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U151	Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U152	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You were talking about recruiting a cultural export counselor. I immediately recall that yesterday there was a foreign policy debate and it was said that the entire foreign economy could have been moved to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with another ministerial position. There's a certain attachment here. When I read the end of page 9 of the report, where there is a reference to an internationalisation and export study of Estonian culture carried out in cooperation with EAS in various fields, it will somehow remain very foggy. I'm not going to read what it is and what the conclusions are other than getting a new person to work and getting on with it. Why don't you explain?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U153	Yes, we have seen that systematic coordination of all this internationalisation is something that will actually make a significant contribution. This concerns both the fact that we can find as well as possible those who have interest, ambition and potential within the sector, and the same thing you have just referred to: that it ties in with all our other foreign policy activities. If we are dealing with the export of culture, it must not be simply a matter of itself, but we must find as many bridges as possible through foreign policy, the export capacity of our economy and the wider promotion of Estonia's reputation. That is why there is a cultural export advisor who deals with this mapping. This research you referred to is a survey commissioned by EAS. It was conducted by Civitta Eesti AS. It's ready and upstairs on our website. In some areas it has been discussed whether this study reflects the field in a sufficiently comprehensive manner. All the conclusions that it says are probably not going to work for a hundred percent.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U154	Please, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U155	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, I, too, must start by saying that the beginning of your presentation was very bitter and touched not only by my colleague who referred to it first, but probably by all cultural friends who, like you, are not laughing at growth and who do not oppose culture, but who consider it important. To be honest, I'm sorry you missed the opportunity to rise above such a small withdrawal in your introduction to your presentation. But my question concerns a part of the growth of Estonian culture and the conditions in which talented young people can develop their talents. The completion of the new building of the only Estonian music high school must guarantee the modern learning conditions of the building, and has been prepared for a very long time. In 2020, this new building should finally be ready. What is the state in which this project is very necessary for the subsequent growth of music culture now?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U156	Thank you for your question. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Culture is not at its fingertips when it comes to schools providing cultural education. We are trying to keep as much informed as possible and to be with our experts in these discussions as possible, but the whole education system is to coordinate the Ministry of Education, including such investments. A certain joint part is only in the construction of the hall of the Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre, which was discussed for 20 years. Finally, a compromise was found that the Ministry of Education found money in the euro and, on the other hand, cultural capital came to the aid. Thus, the Ministry of Culture did not provide funds for this purpose as investments planned from the state budget, but instead used funds allocated to the cultural capital from the gambling tax for cultural investments. But about the construction of schools, you have to ask my good colleague, Mailis Reps.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U157	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U158	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I ask about the development of the Estonian Cultural Paper Foundation. Last year, Uma Leht was taken under the Cultural page, and the Wallpaper was taken from the end of last year. Is the Ministry still planning, or at least on the horizon, publications that could be incorporated into the Cultural Site? And what does this idea of supporting investigative journalism in your written report mean? What does it contain?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U159	The Ministry of Culture doesn't plan this. These things haven't gone like this, someone at the Ministry of Culture read the paper last night and thought, oh, it's a great page, we'll take him to the Foundation Cultural page. This is still the decision of the Foundation's Cultural Website Council when it plans such a thing. But indeed, the way in which funds are being redeployed, the way in which funds are found has been negotiated between the Cultural Site of the Foundation and the Ministry of Culture. I think there have been sensible proposals and an agreement has been reached. As far as the press is concerned, it has been up for some time in the context of cultural capital. This issue has been discussed in different formats. However, I must say that there is no solution to how to promote the quality of the press with the help of cultural capital. I believe that these discussions will continue, but there is not yet any concrete agreement or knowledge about where these discussions will come to.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U160	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U161	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. My question concerns heritage protection and cultural heritage. The launch of the cultural heritage issue was on the agenda, as highlighted in this report very well, last year when Estonia was the President of the Council of the European Union. 2018 has been declared the European Year of Cultural Heritage, as all Member States agree that the role of cultural heritage will increase in modern society and in the hectic times. It's all great. But the question is specific. One of the oldest buildings in Estonia, supposedly the oldest building, is Pöide Church in Saaremaa and the preservation of its precious heritage is important not only for Saaremaa, but also for Estonia as a whole. As a minister, what solution do you see in support of this renovation? It is claimed that the financing allocated to the Lutheran Church does not have a "regional dimension'.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U162	The Lutheran Church, of course, makes its own decisions on the regional policy it is planning. I guess you have to ask them what they're up to. If I remember correctly, the Pöide Church has repeatedly received support from both the program of the temples and the additional provisions of the Riigikogu. But, of course, it's a big church, and we need more resources there. I owe you a specific answer, I don't know what will be done there. As far as regional policy is concerned, when we look at the temples, the biggest problem for them is disunity. The more dispersed the settlement, the more likely there is that there is concern with the temples. When the congregation is no longer present or the congregation is very small and inactive, it is just as it is for any cultural heritage: which is not in use that is not being cared for, it tends to disintegrate. A number of discussions have been held that are possible solutions if it turns out at one point that there is no congregation and the umbrella organisation representing the confession says that they have no ability to do anything. So what are the alternatives? In Europe, there are different examples of what has been done in such cases. We must find our way, but I very much hope that the Pöide Church will be able to keep future generations in good condition and we do not have to worry about what will happen to him in the long run.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U163	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U164	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! Over the past year and a half, we have discussed the issue of the sustainability of indigenous farms, and your administration has had the hope that a rural architecture programme could be created, in cooperation with the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Rural Affairs, which would cover not only farms but also other objects on the ground, such as manors, etc. Can you tell me how far this program has come and what is going to happen in the near future?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U165	The Ministry of Rural Affairs has written it into one of its possible documents, which has been discussed once in the government office. If I'm starting to remember that name, maybe I'm saying it wrong. I'm not saying that. But we would like to launch a pilot of EUR 200000 next year in cooperation with the Ministry of Rural Affairs. This is, of course, the question of the state budget negotiations, whether we can agree, but we and the Ministry of Rural Affairs are prepared. We think it's undisputedly necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U166	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U167	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! This report also talks about the export of music. I'm asking about younger people like this, the most popular music. Trad has been the subject of folklore music. Attack!'s funding, it's also connected to our country's 100-year anniversary. Does the Ministry of Culture have a clear desire in the long term to support the export of pop music more strongly and better? We have a very well organized export of classical music, but could pop music be expected to be of similar fame? I am thinking both of the Ministry's own position and of the wider debate in society.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U168	Well, in general, it falls into the category of 'creative economy'. We are trying to support these development centres and those umbrella organisations that represent their interests in one way or another, either directly or through EAS. Like the same Trad. Attack!, which actually does world music, so they love to say about themselves. So it's pop music with folk gloom or whatever it is that characterizes it. We are trying to support them precisely with the idea that at some point some of them can, in most cases, not usually get the kind of publicity that they manage themselves, and manage very well and thus bring additional tax money to Estonia. Trad. Attack! , Maarja Nuut and Curly Strings are trying to go to foreign markets with the music of this genre. They've taken turns, as well as one-time appearances. We have always tried to support them in the various programmes, and we will certainly do so in the future. But clearly, keeping a symphony orchestra is a luxury. Without it, we do not maintain the Estonian cultural space, but the symphony orchestra is large and the costs involved are much higher than the costs of the poprist. It is not appropriate to compare these amounts one to one.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U169	Tiit Terik.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U170	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I would like to ask you, as culture also plays a major role in diplomacy, the situation with cultural attachés, to the development of yesterday's foreign policy. How many of our foreign missions are covered with cultural attachés? How do you assess this situation? Are our wishes, or rather your wishes, greater than the current situation allows?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U171	Yeah, a lot bigger. But, yeah, you always have to count for resources. Right now we have eight cultural attachés. Not all of them work full-time, some of them work part-time. These part-time places have been created in the last few years and we have been trying to find additional resources to make them more. There is a feeling that there has been a greater interest in Estonian culture in one place or another. The same goal again: we may be able to help many Estonian players to the international market. But, of course, these are all fixed costs that need to be considered very carefully before the next decision is made.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U172	Please, Laine Randjärv!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U173	Thank you, manager. Minister, at the beginning of your speech, you really spoke bitterly enough about certain areas, I would even say with a slight stab. I think that it should not be the individual who has asked questions in the Chamber that should feel affected, but all people who are involved in culture. This biased approach to responses is not very solid either. It was like my little mark. But I'd like to ask you about the activities of interest. In your speech you said that, in connection with increased support, interest activities report new initiatives in different regions of Estonia. What is the position of the Ministry of Culture: will the implementation of the developed measure go as planned? And what is the state of traditional areas of interest?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U174	When this measure was written into the coalition agreement, we were in the government with the Reform Party and the Minister of Education was Jürgen Ligi. Speaking honestly, Jürgen and I spent a long time discussing how to do this. It was agreed that this concept would be developed by the Ministry of Culture and implemented by the Ministry of Education. Such a salomonic decision was fixed at that time. Now it is that we have developed the concept and the Ministry of Education implements it. Therefore, I do not have a complete picture of the relationship between traditional folk culture areas and new and interesting initiatives. We have collected different examples through our network, and we can see that diversity has indeed increased. We know that children who did not engage in activities of interest in the past have also been involved. What is the sum of the sum summary, which also includes specific issues, of which hopefully the Ministry of Education will provide a complete overview within some time, using the tools they have to collect information during the implementation of this concept.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U175	The Dark One.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U176	Thank you, good manager. Mr. Minister! One thing that deeply excites me and for which I would like to begin congratulating the Ministry concerns a detail of inter-ministerial cooperation. I mean finding an additional application for a half-empty national library. The Tallinn Department of the National Archives could also be located there. This would be an excellent example of the real cooperation between the two ministries. But here's the question. Although the people of the Ministry of Culture and the people of the Ministry of Education and Research and, oh, wonder, even the people of the Ministry of Finance are talking about this as a project almost already born and everyone is happy, before I can begin to praise, I would like to ask: is this a matter already decided? Are there any other threats to this particular project, so this thing could go beyond the fence?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U177	It is clear that the National Library is a very important part of our building heritage and the functions it performs are even more important. So this house must be operational and modern. This means, however, that it will need a serious investment in the coming years. According to my memory, it is estimated at EUR 46 million. That's a considerable amount. It is very difficult to say how and in what time the resources will be found for this today.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U178	Andres Ammas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U179	Thank you, Honourable Chairman. Honorable Minister! You spoke in your presentation of two major successes: the rise in the pay of cultural workers and the successful young song and dance work. Let's move on from there. You certainly know that the choir people, and certainly the dance people, are very worried about the subsequent growth of the choir leaders and about the remuneration of the choir leaders. It's a problem that's decades old. If we can't do anything to solve this, we can have very big problems carrying on our song festival tradition in 10 to 12 years' time. Perhaps this is also a question of silo towers which, in a sense, lies between the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Education. What are your thoughts on this? What can be done here: on the one hand, decent pay for work, on the other hand, aftergrowth? Do you have a plan in mind, or is it already on paper?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U180	Thank you for your question. I fully agree that the work done by hundreds of choir leaders across Estonia is invaluable. Thanks to the idealism with which they have done their work, we can be proud of our music traditions, our chorus tradition. This is our crown jewel, which is driven around the world to admire and is a very important part of our national cultural identity. There could be no song festival without these people's dedication. As regards the remuneration of choir leaders, this has been the role of local governments over the years. I very much hope that the increased financial capacity of local authorities will give them the opportunity to set their priorities in such a way that their better financial standing is reflected in the wages of the good people who hold the position of choir leader. What has the country done? As I have already pointed out, according to the scheme for support for recreational activities, EUR 15 million will be spent in support of recreational activities. All local governments can also use this money for salaries in one form or another to motivate teachers in recreational education. I also referred to the fact that this concept has been introduced that EUR 500000 is distributed annually between quality-development umbrella organisations. I very much hope that stronger umbrella organisations, including those who stand up for choir leaders, will be able to negotiate serious wages. At the moment, the Minister of Culture does not have the opportunity to agree these salaries with anyone, just as we can make an agreement with the TALO on the jobs financed by the state budget. So there is no quick solution where the Ministry can take a pen and sign something. But I very much hope that the additional resources for interest activities, which are not a small amount, will also help to raise money for pay in this area.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U181	Please, Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U182	Dear Minister of Culture, My question relates to the topic of Estonian Public Broadcasting. Namely: Does the good minister occasionally look at ETV+ production? If so, what is your personal assessment of the development of ETV+?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U183	Yeah, I watch television every once in a while, and I have to admit with sin, let the private channels forgive me! just that the programmes offered by national broadcasting are far more delicious for me than the ones spiced by private channels with a lot of advertising breaks. I am therefore very pleased that we have such a thing as the Estonian Public Broadcasting. As far as the quality of the production of Estonian National Broadcasting is concerned, I must say that I have no legal obligation or right to interfere with their programming. This is an opportunity for the Riigikogu, especially the Cultural Committee of the Riigikogu, which appoints members of the National Broadcasting Council. And, of course, the members of the Council have the opportunity to propose to the Governing Board that the content of the programmes be discussed while, of course, refraining from dealing with micromanagement. This possibility really exists because you are the ones responsible for the activities of Estonian National Broadcasting as a whole. I only have the role of middleman here as Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U184	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U185	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. The plight of the Estonian National Broadcasting buildings is certainly a serious issue in your opinion. The old radio house was renovated as a newshouse, but it is known that the state of the television house is life-threatening if you move around. There's been a complete depreciation of equipment, studios and everything. The plan is to build a new building on the yard of the old radio station. Would you like to open up some funding plans for how many things and how long a period of time it is planned to allocate? Why don't you elaborate on that a little bit? That is a very serious question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U186	Thank you. Indeed, such a strange thing has happened, and those who remember know how it happened, that the ball had been thrown out of hand for a long time before it was decided that in the name of Estonian National Broadcasting, all budget requests, even though he has no right to intervene in the management of the ERR, not to mention the intervention of the programme, must be submitted by the Minister of Culture during the budget negotiations. But we met yesterday to discuss this issue with the members of the ERR Board, who once again presented their plan to build a television studio complex between two radio stations. Now this investment plan has already been considered by two management bodies and accepted by two councils, and the Ministry of Culture feels that it is well-founded. I will certainly submit this request to the Ministry of Finance by 1 March in the context of the debate on the country's budgetary strategy. What's the result of the negotiations? It's time to show.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U187	Andres Metsoja.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U188	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! My question concerns our common constituency of Pärnumaa, namely the development of the Baltic Sea Art Port project. Mark Soosaar has been its spiritual father and developer. It has become apparent that approximately EUR 455000 of EAS funding could be allocated to it, while the need for this project is considerably higher. The city has also promised to contribute, but together we are talking about a 2 million-dollar project. Is it the final position of the State that it is not possible to allocate additional funds in addition to the EAS funds?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U189	The country has negotiated twice with representatives of the Baltic Sea Art Port and the City of Pärnu and has increased its amount twice. I mean co-financing. So far, it had been the understanding of all parties that this project would be carried out if the funding came from EAS on a large scale. I understand that the situation is new and EAS has said that it will give four times, or perhaps even more than four times less, under certain conditions. I currently have no idea where the Ministry of Culture budget could find an additional 1.5 million in order to cover this missing part. In the case of co-financing, the condition was also that the project was realistic and would receive funding under the competitiveness support measure for the EAS regions. In this sense, indeed, this agreement is no longer in force. Now the question is whether other agreements can be made. I'd rather be optimistic. If the city decides to find this money, we will continue to be prepared to pay the planned EUR 300000, which was intended for co-financing, of which 65000 have been spent on the preliminary project. But, of course, we'll have to negotiate once the city is ready.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U190	Ain Lutsepp.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U191	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, The question is the field of performing arts. Discussions on the funding of theatres have been taking place in the Ministry since the spring-summer and there was an expert group for this, and I will now read out, 'the aim of which was to develop proposals for the future of theatre funding. One of the starting points of the discussions was to maintain a balance between innovation and sustainability and to ensure that the theatre art is accessible to the viewer. ' Question: Where has AIDA, or the model of funding based on an estimated man-year of employment, been reached, as well as the level wages? I'd like to get some information on how far it's come.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U192	I believe that yesterday, too, the Association of Performance Institutions had a meeting with the people of the Ministry of Culture to discuss the same subject. I don't really have the latest information on where it came from. It is clear that the law of the performing institutions needs an update. Time has taken big steps forward and the law no longer reflects the reality of the situation. At the same time, these are choices that require the greatest possible consensus. I very much hope that this spring there will be some kind of agreement on the basis of which we can proceed. But we've decided not to rush. We don't want to make a law that doesn't work later or that doesn't satisfy most of us, so we should start doing it again right now. The discussions so far have been very thorough, and I hope that there will soon be a lot of wool.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U193	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U194	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! One question a year about cultural policy is actually ridiculous and it is difficult to choose what to ask. But that's the kind of thing I'm asking. The importance of Arvo Pärt as an export article was already mentioned and Hortus Musicus has been ticking for a long time with the support of the state's purse. But there is another ensemble on the rise: Vox Clamantis. They have also approached you in order to receive permanent financial assistance. Right now, these people are doing other jobs, but if their concert trips are getting more and more frequent, then at some point you have to choose one or the other. How far from Vox Clamantis' state budget are we now negotiating funding?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U195	At the beginning of the year, we met with the leaders of Vox Clamantis, and we had, one might say, an inspiring and fruitful discussion about who they really are and what frame they are willing to place themselves in as creators. It is clear, on the one hand, that everyone wants to gain certainty about financing, but, on the other hand, such certainty requires some degree of institutionalisation, which is different forms. But it may not go hand in hand with the desire to maintain creative freedom. I think we took a big step forward, we figured out more or less where to go. We have agreed that, by the end of February, we will try to reach a common understanding of what the near future could bring. Now I cannot speak for these people here, but I think we are on our way to a sensible solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U196	Please, Monika Hawkhammer!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U197	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You're probably already assuming I'm asking again about accessibility, just like last year. We have about 140000 people with disabilities, both creators and consumers. And they also need to be given opportunities to participate in cultural life. How has the situation improved in the last year in the sense that physical access to theatres and museums is easier? Have we come up with descriptive cartoons and other movies or any museum exhibitions? Have any of the theatres or concert halls been fitted with a loop system for hearing impaired people? Or, for example, do we have more subtitled programs in ETV? How do you assess this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U198	For our part, we have tried to deepen as much as possible the knowledge that this target group we are talking about is very significant. You yourself said that an estimated 140000 people's access to cultural events depends on whether they have access to them. We have proposed different training courses for the sectors, we have brought together the heads of institutions and we have educated them together with the organisations concerned. I believe this awareness has increased in the last few years. Fortunately, we also have people in the field who have been enthusiastic and volunteering on this subject, but yes, not all have yet been informed about what can be done. The Estonian Film Institute has agreed on how they will proceed with their translations. As far as I know, a few days ago they had a training and debate on this particular subject. I also know that when the ERR planned its budget, it also wanted additional resources to ensure better access to it. The concrete examples that have been made, I can't tell by heart. I think there's something in this report, too, but if there's any interest in getting more specific information, I could send it to you in writing. We have tried to monitor it systematically and to obtain and exchange relevant information within the area.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U199	Thank you very much, Minister. No further questions for you. I will open negotiations and remind you that the Riigikogu will not take the decision at the end of the negotiations. Please, Laine Randjärv on behalf of the Reform Party Group. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U200	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, It is somewhat symptomatic that there are more or less those who speak on behalf of the groups and a few more fans left in the hall. It gives a good overview of how much interest there is in the subject and culture is also thought of in society as a whole. At the same time, the cultural sphere has undoubtedly been at the forefront of our state life over the last few years. After all, the topics of the Republic of Estonia 100 are essentially all related to the cultural story of our country. By culture we understand political behavioural culture, forest management culture, folk culture, teaching culture, etc., etc. This sequence could go on forever. The Minister spoke about the achievements of the field. In recognition of what has been done, however, I will focus my speech on issues where there is still room for improvement. Cultural funding has been a painful issue for all governments since then. Fortunately, Estonia is in an exceptional situation thanks to the Cultural Capital Act, which allows spontaneous but also stable projects to be supported on the basis of decisions taken in the middle of the year. According to this law, the Cultural Endowment depends on the receipt of excise duties and gambling taxes, as the percentage of this money goes to the Cultural Capital Support Fund has been determined. Of course, we can discuss once again whether it is ethical for cultural funding to depend on the incomes received at the cost of evils, but it is worth thinking more broadly. The money from excise duties will fall into the common large boiler of the state budget anyway, and if there is a law that ensures support for investments in cultural projects, it is certainly better than the fact that it should depend on the state of mind of one government or another. In the context of the strategy, we are talking about a long-term perspective. As a result of temporary confusion, the current government has raised the rate of excise duty too high, thus reducing taxes to EUR 55 million. As a result, less money has also been received from cultural capital. However, there is hope that, in the light of the smarter decisions of the new governments, this situation will also improve for the cultural sector. The second issue I want to address is the future and sustainability of our cultural story flagship Song and Dance Festivals. The same issue was raised here in the round of questions. There is no doubt that we are all enthusiastic about this tradition, both our people and foreign guests. Unfortunately, the foundation of the party stands largely only on professional volunteering. How else can we address the issue of the non-existent remuneration of choir leaders, dance teachers, brass and folk orchestras? The Estonian Choir Leaders' Association has raised this issue sharply. I believe that the fate and future of the song festival movement as a whole should certainly be addressed seriously and through analysis in the new cultural development strategy up to 2030, because the empty bag is not standing. Of course, we can continue to happily report the salary paid to elected state writers and state artists, but the song and dance festival of the foundation of our national culture must also receive proper and systematic support during the inter-party period. Otherwise, the 2019 party could be the sad end of the entire history of 150-year-old singing parties. A little bit of investment, too. Several large complexes have been built in recent decades, such as Kumu and ERM, and the music academy hall has been long awaited and allowed. At the same time, many institutions are awaiting their destiny in ignorance. The future of the Patarei prison has emerged sharply, which was also discussed in a large circle in the Committee on Culture. A number of memory institutions, as well as private business, claim this facility. How can forces be united here in such a way that the narrow possibilities of the country are not reduced even further? For years, our national opera has been talking about the need for a new house, not just because of the glory, but because the national opera is a whole system of music education and a wider network. Not only is it entertaining the audience with musicals and operettas, it is not just inviting top performers to Estonia, selling out halls to tourists, it is the future of our cultural education work. If there are no interested parties to dance on a cozy stage or play in a rough orchestra hole, students are not going to the ballet school or music schools, then there is no point in bringing the top to the music academy, the specialty of the theatre designers at the art academy, the preparation of lighting and sound technicians. Theatre is actually a major cultural industry, in a modern way saying: creative industries. I am convinced that culture in traditional areas must also be viewed with a fresh look in a strategic and visionful way. Life around us changes in seconds. People, i.e. also cultural consumers, apologize for the trivial word 'consumers'! The needs are changing. These needs need to be met. The expectations of the audience must be taken into account, and there is less and less time to get into something. More and more shallow. From day to day, people are more stressed and overworked. And the only way to solve this situation is to get cultural life together or to collect experiences as a spectator. Yesterday, at the meeting of the Committee on Culture, we heard from the Ministry that there was a plan to start discussions on the fundamentals of a new culture strategy and culture policy in the 2020/2030 period. However, the questions to be specified by the members of the Commission could not be answered: what are the more precise future visions of the Ministry, whether there is a plan to position a very diverse cultural field in such a way that different world-viewed attractions do not affect its material foundations. However, to quite a close conclusion, there are still a few attitudes. Minister Saar said in Hellovision this morning that creativity affects whether or not the economy is successful. That this is one of the actions that is certainly not what we are holding our country for, but what is very necessary. This relates to the introduction to today's speech, with several questions in this area. With regard to the Minister's rather arrogant attitude towards the economic sphere, I would like to say that, despite the reasonably high self-esteem of our cultural people, our country cannot pass without a functioning and developing economy. The cultural field cannot pay off and does not have to. We need to develop and support our culture because no one else but us does it. It's an axiom. But we cultural people can't be selfish in this. All areas of life must be intertwined with one another. That's what we need to understand. Culture must support the economy and vice versa. The article "The equivalent of Lageraie in Estonian economy and culture" published today in the Estonian Express is very well connected with this. The third generation of forest man writes how one economic area can be reflected in culture, education and some other social budget. If there was no economic activity, there would also be no money to support important areas of public interest. This is the story of how smart forest management and income support our state budget as a whole so that we can create and preserve our culture. I suggest you read this article and think about it. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U201	Please, Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U202	Good Riigikogu! An important part of the principles agreed in the strategy papers requires consistent and planned action, and results cannot be measured for each calendar year, as said by the Minister of Culture. The Minister's report on the fundamentals of cultural policy up to 2020 provides, in particular, information on what activities were carried out last year. There are also activities that will reach the end of this year. I am now talking about the results that my group will be happy to emphasise. First of all, important keywords in the cultural field in 2017 included the holding of the Year of Culture for children and young people and the Young Song and Dance Festival 'I Will Stay! '. Secondly, raising the pay of cultural workers was a tone of policy making. Thirdly, the start of the 'Estonian Republic 100' programme has been a major undertaking. Fourthly, last year the construction of the Vaba Lava Narva Theatre Centre began. The creation of the Vaba Lava Narva Theatre Centre is a good example of how, in cooperation with the state, local government, private and third sectors, new opportunities can be created in the field of culture. Fifthly, last year was very important for the ERR news service in connection with the introduction of TV, radio and web news into the newshouse. What is to be expected? This year, the 'Estonian Republic 100' programme is a priority in cultural life. However, this is at one point in the final stretch, and it is the right time to set and think through the following great goals. We believe that, above all, investment needs to be considered. We have to think about the decision to build a possible new house in the ERR, the Estonian National Opera is waiting for its solution, including the National Library. Of course, it is important to consider the development of world culture, i.e. to look outside, but the tradition, i.e. the culture passed on from generation to generation, is even more important for Estonia. I am talking about the importance of digital preservation of materials. And last but not least, but not insignificant is integration. On behalf of our group, I would like to state that many things are seeming in the case of integration, which is known to be under the care of the Ministry of Culture. When I look at the report, everything seems very beautiful, but when you read the media, you see that everyone's worried. Stepping out of the door, the situation is not comparable to what is in the report or to what is in the media. In this context, we have high expectations that new objectives will be set in this area as well. We very much hope to see success in the targeted activities in Ida-Virumaa, especially in creating an Estonian language house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U203	Krista Aru will speak on behalf of the Group of the Estonian Free Party. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U204	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Minister of Culture! Good people's representatives! Looking at this hall, I couldn't help but remember a Free Land article from 1927. The newspaper reporter specifically writes that they were sitting in that hall and suddenly the hall was empty. Only those who talked about their business remained in the hall. I think that Estonian culture is not just a matter of its own. I am very sorry that the hall is almost empty, but we hope that the other representatives of the people will be in their rooms, observe and listen to the debate and at least think along with us. Mr. Minister of Culture! I already said yesterday in the Commission that the report prepared by the Ministry of Culture, you and your assistants will certainly be much more comprehensive, meaningful and, ultimately, better than in previous years. But there is room for improvement, and there is room for improvement, especially in the Estonian language used. If you look at it, the Estonian language has been used in a very chaotic way: foreign words have been used, slang has also been used, which in no way wants to fit into such a report. But now to cultural policy, to achieve its objectives. Cultural policy is good when it is carried by a clear conceptual basis. You can see and smell, I dare say, the ideal attitudes that value society as a whole and give way to development. I am probably not wrong to read out of this last year's report first and foremost the knowledge that Estonia's cultural policy has been aimed at internationalisation, export, openness. The dialogue has been sought and the culture that has grown and been completed here at home in Estonia has been caught, so I dare take it to other countries to make these products bigger. It's very beautiful and it's in the right direction. I have to admit, you've done a good job. I would also like to congratulate you on another matter that makes it possible to deal with culture at all: it is the wages of cultural workers. They were ridiculous, shameful. The fact that we are moving towards a more solid reward for these people is well worth praising. However, looking at this focus on openness and dialogue, we are always asking whether we have enough interpreters, translators who can take out our culture. And then let's ask if we've dealt enough with this subspace that grows all that can be taken out at all. That's my first question. And, to be honest, all of the following questions are based precisely on whether the interpretation, maintenance and modernisation of this basis have been sufficiently addressed and whether it has been valued. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U205	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U206	First of all, who should be responsible for the fact that we are talking about successful digitisation, but let us not say that Matthias Johann Eisen's collections of valuable folklore collections, which are only one copy of the world, are falling apart. They have broken down to such an extent that they cannot even be digitised anymore. Who's responsible for this? It can be said that the Literary Museum with its folklore archive is located in the administration of the Ministry of Education and Research, and that is their concern. I dare say no. In the case of such a unique collection, I dare say, we must not refer to the fact that responsibility for this now falls within the jurisdiction of another ministry. We have no right to do so, and we have no right to do so. To say it's just one of the archivists' problems, you can't. From this strong tendency, which shows that we have some homework assignments that we do not properly evaluate and do, the following also push. It is very nice that Estonia is one of the main speakers at the London Book Fair. Whether this is the root cause of this should be it! just that the only program for publishing literature in Estonian does not issue any grants this year? Where, then, is the support for the issuing of the next volume, for example, of the Old Harp? How, then, can Friedrich Robert Faehlmann receive support for publishing the works he has collected? But these are things that no one else in the whole world does and does not have to deal with. The same can be said today of the choir song tradition already touched by my colleague Laine Randjärv. It's great. It's great. It's a great big song party. It doesn't matter if it's an adult or a separate children's and young people's party, it's worth keeping. However, if we do not deal with this foundation today, if we allow the trend to continue that the remuneration of the choir leaders depends either on the attitude of the head of the school or on the wallet of the singers, so that the choir leader must, like, ask for it on his salary, then the future of our proud party is doubtful. I also say that leaving this fee only to the local government is not right and it is not appropriate, because the choir song is more than just one song party. Next topic: Church of Tartu. I have heard that the Ministry of Culture has responded to the church of Tartu that the church of Paul has already received money in Tartu, the St. John's Church has received money, and so the church of Mary does not have to receive the four million requested. Maybe that money isn't right now, but you can never answer that you shouldn't. The church of Tartu Mary carries more than one tradition of church or song. The film by Johannes Pääsuke should also have been made. It is not all up to the Minister, of course, but these are examples that, if you pay attention to something, it is our duty to think first and foremost about home affairs when it comes to cultural policy and new plans. If the homework is in order, we will have enough treasure to take it out and show it to others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U207	Aadu Black, the Estonian Centre Party Group, please! Eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U208	Ladies and gentlemen, If someone came into this hall and told me that all the expectations we had for the Ministry of Culture were met last year, he'd be lying. This isn't about the current government, it's about any government. And when we start looking for reasons, we find the reasons very peculiar. The Estonian people are such a cultural nation and the traditions of cultural consumption and making so powerful that we have to make tough and difficult choices. When we look at our cultural heritage, including buildings and other artifacts, it is so much honor to our ancestors who have created it all! It is not possible to maintain it with the help of a public purse alone. In this sense, one of the positive things I remembered from the Minister's story was that he said that the Ministry was doing this thing with another ministry, and the other thing was doing it with the Third Ministry and something with the Fourth Ministry. We discussed in the Commission whether this is good or bad. You know, this is the only way to survive in a country where cultural interest is immensely beyond the possibilities of the moment. I dare say I've been a pretty good cultural expert for a long time. It's not nice to be educated, but I can't, but sometimes I have to praise myself. Laine Randjärv is always talking about song festival culture and song festival movement. I can't help but say I'm a part of this. Sixty years ago, I had my head in my head and it still is! All the songs of the mixed choir repertoire. True, depending on their age, what to do with soprano is a lot of soprano! 55 years ago, I managed to prevent the destruction of a large book. We carried the literature in Estonian to our home in the late 19th century, and the headmaster could not send it to the stake. 50 years ago, however, I was the artistic director of Tori's rural culture house. So I have a pretty interesting view of culture. I'll come back to today. There was talk of various dangers. There was also talk about something close to the soul of the archivist. But I'm coming to the Ministry of Culture and I'm gonna skip a piece of a professional. You know, at the beginning of the 20th century, all countries came to the point that they had their own archives: they simply came from keeping information in the archives where materials can be stored, used, described. All these components have to be. However, if we are currently looking at the valuable collections of national broadcasting, for example, you know, in the archives it is not called archiving. It's a storage facility. The material, our national memory, has been stored. This is a level that was, as a rule, exceeded in other areas at the end of the 19th century. Another thing that really worries me and I've seen before in education is to rip the blanket off each other. The point is that in the same time here in the Riigikogu, a scientific lobby knew that money had to be taken away from the other and taken over. We'll send a sputnik up, so I guess all the national sciences will be happy. Instead, it should have been said that the education and research system is a whole that needs more resources. And in this house, I've been so sad sometimes. When there was one debate about sports and coaches, it went to the same deck to rip off: no, our sports federation does not support this plan, because it favours someone else, but it does not favour us very much. Instead, I should have done this together, but it wasn't like it wasn't. And now I want to come to my main subject, which I prepared for. I dare say to you that the Estonian society as a whole is characterised by professional fragmentation. They do their ministry business, and if it's up to us to do the state business or the ministry business, we usually do the ministry business and a little state business. In this context, I have been given the true fruitage of the knowledge of good and evil in a much-spoken national library project. The house is half empty, there is not much paper material in storage, there is a lot of free space. And the entire surface of the vault is under-exploited. In other parts of the world, the library does not know the archive, where the shelves are well spread out, and there are no lyrics that hold the surface of the repository immensely. The National Library has been constantly looking for solutions to pay for expensive rentals, who can still be subtenanted. The Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Education and Research now had an excellent idea to gather the units of the National Archives scattered in Tallinn and put them together in one house. Double plus! These are very close areas and it is now possible to achieve shared and cross-use of premises and storage facilities. So it's a hugely good project, and luckily, there's a lot of talk about it. But I still don't approve of you. If you do this, I will say that it is clear that many things, including cooperation between ministries in the fields of education and culture, are moving towards life, not death. Do it, then I really appreciate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U209	Hardi Volmer on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U210	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not gonna bully you with the pathetic talk going into the details, but there's an interesting fact and I'd like to say it. As several speakers mentioned the digitisation of cultural goods, archival units, I recall an interesting fact concerning the Japanese film library. Somewhere in the beginning of this century, they began to rerecord their films, which were digitized by then, on tape, because only the ancient god himself knows how long one thing remains in digitized form. It's kind of a bit of a kinky fact. But now, one eloquent conspiracy for tonight, if you'll excuse me. Whatever we're talking about here, it's either straight or we're talking about public money, this equivalent of fear and love. Unfortunately, it is also a key instrument for cultural policy. But I would like to point out childishly that this is not about the so-called hangar art that we are not questioning, but about our very general social creative capacity. I pecked one word out of the minister's report in his various forms. This word is all-encompassing, and so I think it's most important. That word is the verb "animal." It follows from this as if vulgar-anthropological finding that almost the only guarantee of living, our so-called modus vivendi, which we have next to our strong friends, is our creativity. Social creativity or, to be more precise, social creativity, as well as the ability to maintain its sustainability. In Estonian, we say 'natural', or 'creative', about our beloved environment, in which the success of the operation is determined by our nature, or nature, and intelligence. The story, the story, goes down there. But above all animal-strained lyrics and words, the divine origins, or creators of the universe, rise. Thus, language, as our most archaic instrument of world abstraction, identifies creation as a divine act. Creativity or creative approach must be expressed in everything. It is also known to be an important guarantee of material good, material wealth. Of course, this moleok, this homo creamivus hangs from the udder of the country with all nails and needs to be fed, at best, even fattened. This is one of the most effective ways to signal to the outside world that we were and continue to be a dignified part of human civilization in our common cultural space. Quoting the Minister: 'Estonia is a cultural state whose success is based on the creativity of our people. ' And, above all, the creative people are responsible for making our culture unique, distinctive and thus very visible right now, in the year of global cultural heritage, at the global fairground if you wish. How, then, has the redistribution of poverty in support of creativity taken place? I think the word 'bloom' would sound hollow here. In Estonia, we do not find an area, an application for life that is overfunded, since then, the things of creative municipality. At this point, I would like to quote a famous and annoyingly repeated paraphrase from a French film: 'When I hear the word 'culture', my hand grabs the checkbook. ' The question is, how much number can we get there and want to write it down? We do not have the means to carry out a massive cultural funding revolution, but it does give us the name to move towards the goals one step at a time. And fortunately, it has been done as far as possible, as we have just heard. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U211	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U212	Enough with three seconds. It remains to be hoped that this trend will continue. An example of this is an extremely important problem that creative people are still waiting to solve in painful silence. This is the social guarantee of freelance creators. The artist's salary is a very nice national bow, but it alleviates the concerns of the few, even for a period of time. As always, there is hope and good faith to live. A good friend of mine has written a psalm in that ancient era of bright hopes: "Let us pray together in silence, oh, deep down, or brighten up in it. " We remember: " Creator, keep the land of Mary, and forgive us our faults. Creator, protection of Estonia, parties for this prayer now. ' Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U213	Thank you. Mr Volmer proved how much can be said in three seconds. I'm closing the negotiations. Yes, but before that, the Minister of Culture indicated that he wanted to speak again, and he has every right to do so. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U214	Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Thank you for your input and feedback. Indeed, the freelance perspective is one of the themes raised by cultural actors. In reality, we are well aware that if a person receives a salary from several places and perhaps not regularly, this does not mean that he is not a full member of society who needs social guarantees and certainty for the future. And this subject actually concerns a lot of people. The number of these people is even growing very rapidly in all areas, not just in the creative field. This is a serious challenge, the time for an in-depth debate will come after the Ministry of Social Affairs has completed an analysis of the possibilities for modern solutions to the problem of people who currently do not have health insurance. After all, they are residents of Estonia and need security for the future, like others. I hope that this analysis will soon be completed and we can take a step forward. But the above also proves that, like me, the wider cultural community does not think as Laine Randjärv tried to tell us: don't be high, understand that money is needed. I think that people in the field of culture are also very adequate in economic matters and are well aware that material resources are also necessary in order to deal with creation. As Minister of Culture, I have tried to explain that in order to be able to commit to creation, it is necessary that the creator's material needs are covered. We have also tried to ensure this. This concerns salaries, including artists' and writers' salaries, which Laine Randjärv has been subject to unbridled criticism. But we may have different ideas, we also have a different view of the world. Laine Randjärv declares himself to the right and thinks that the country should be as thin as possible. Interestingly, this does not prevent us from agreeing that creators should be well rewarded. It seems to me that Laine Randjärv is moving in that direction, that the jobs of choir managers should actually be nationalised and that the salaries of choir managers should be adjusted vigorously by means of state budget money. This is despite the fact that there is probably a slight conflict here with the attitudes that his party has declared in general. I certainly do not want to contrast economics and culture. I note that the vast majority of cultural ministers, with a few exceptions, have re-independenced in Estonia as part of the Reform Party. This has been the case since 2007 until this moment in 2015, when I became Minister of Culture. And all this time, unfortunately, the wages of cultural people were considerably lower than the average in Estonia. It did not move significantly in the direction that 'Cultural policy fundamentals for 2014' set out and which I have already talked about here today. This is indeed a matter in which I understand differently how we view creators and how, in the long run, our ability to find modern, creative solutions in the economy will also be affected. But I am very pleased that, as Laine Randjärv also pointed out, there is a desire to discuss the theme of the singing party, including the perspective of the choir leaders, by drawing up the 2020-2030 cultural development plan. And today there was also a debate on the issue of the National Opera. This, too, is certainly an issue that needs a thorough debate. Finally, thank you for your feedback and I wish you a creative and inspiring Republic anniversary.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U215	As the Minister's speech was also part of the negotiations, and I have come to the conclusion that five times there was talk of Laine Randjärv, please, on the point of reply!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U216	Thank you. It is a great honour that the Minister, in his concluding speech, referred five times to the proposals and observations that have been made in my speech. However, I would like to say that four of the five times he put words in my mouth with his own interpretation, which is quite understandable and sometimes even apologetic for the creative man. I'm sure you can count from the verbatim, which I actually said. But since I was mentioned five times, I have a chance to respond a little bit more. I say one thing: it is certainly very important to support Estonian culture, which can also be read in my speech. But in order to better support it, so that cultural people do not have to think every day about whether their empty bag stands or does not stand, it must be taken into account that the state has incomes from economic activity, from economic activity, from the good functioning of the economy. That was what I said. Then it will also be possible to support culture so that everything can flourish. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U217	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, The debate on cultural policy is over for sex.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U218	Today's latest item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Bankruptcy Act, the Credit Institutions Act and the Unemployment Insurance Act (bankruptcy manager's fee) 575. I call Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, as a waitress. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U219	Honorable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable representatives of the people! As regards the previous debate, I would like to say that I had the real pleasure of listening to the last speeches, in particular, where at the same time one sectoral debate became a cultural event, a manifestation of culture. The words 'creating' and 'creating' were used in such different meanings, especially as regards the very depth of the last group representative's speech when he was asked to hold the creator's loving hand to all the thoughts that have sent us. But I now come to the more secular concerns about Estonian procedural law in the area of justice administration. The Government has presented a draft law to Parliament, i.e. to the High Chamber, which has dealt with two issues in substance. Firstly, the amendments to the Unemployment Insurance Act, which we seek to remove the disproportionate restrictions imposed on workers in the event of their employer's insolvency. The Chancellor of Justice has drawn attention to this in the past. Workers will now have the right to claim insolvency benefits even if they do not pay the amount of the deposit for the continuation of proceedings in the course of proceedings against the creditor. In certain cases, this fee may be close to EUR 1000. In a situation where an employee does not pay a deposit in the course of the proceedings on the application for bankruptcy against the creditor and the court therefore omits the temporary administrator or the application for bankruptcy, the information to be reflected by the court in the order shall be provided in order to ensure that employees are able to prove the conditions for obtaining insolvency benefits. The employee has the possibility to apply directly to the unemployment fund for the insolvency benefit of his employer by means of such a court order. In other words, if the employer has gone bankrupt, this poor worker will not have to dive separately into bankruptcy proceedings and submit any applications, but the court will issue a regulation on the basis of which he can go to the unemployment fund. There wouldn't be any further restraining for a human being, and it would be easier. We've considered how many people this could affect. Last year, there have been about a hundred people who have come up with a so-called wall in front of their right. The second round of issues concerns bankruptcy proceedings. Its purpose is to ensure legal clarity as to when a fee can be paid to the temporary administrator and to pay for the reimbursement of costs, and how to calculate the remuneration of the insolvency administrator in a situation where there is no insolvency assets, in terms of size, or in cases where the administrator is not approved. The aim is also to harmonise the reporting periods of the insolvency practitioner. This is essentially achieved by creating more flexibility, especially in insolvent bankruptcy cases. It is also possible to request that the remuneration of the insolvency practitioner be brought forward in time compared to the current situation, where this can only be done when the final report is approved. The reporting period for expenditure shall be extended from three to six months. These changes have been negotiated with insolvency practitioners and everything that concerns the entire economic environment has been discussed with representatives of the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Chamber of Service Economy, EVEA and other public institutions. Our proposals have been supported in a large way. True, the Chamber of bailiffs and Bankruptcy Administrators supported all changes, but their ambition was undoubtedly even greater. They will probably also present their views to the Committee on Legal Affairs during the further processing of the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U220	Küllik's Hatter asks the Minister the first question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U221	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! I understand that this bill will also give the contractor, or employee, the opportunity to turn to the court himself to start bankruptcy proceedings if he sees that the company has a bad day. Is that true? If so, how much administrative burden will the court now have? What does this mean in terms of division of labour and finance?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U222	Thank you. As far as the application for bankruptcy is concerned, the employee has been able to submit it so far, and we will not change that right. The question is, under which circumstances the unemployment benefit is paid. This will probably reduce the administrative burden on citizens. In itself, we really expect the possibility of starting bankruptcy proceedings against an insolvent company to be increased in the past, in a situation where more assets have been preserved. The exemption of the insolvent employee from the deposit obligation may also increase the number of bankruptcies filed by the employees. But we can see that this is positive and does not have any negative effects. Because it is certainly better for bankruptcy proceedings to start at an earlier stage when there is still something to share and there is a way to satisfy claims. This should also indirectly discipline firms in default. One of the biggest problems of our insolvency law as a whole is that proceedings are being implemented too late, when there is nothing left to share, whether everything has been removed or whether the volume of liabilities is simply so large in objective circumstances that bona fide creditors, including workers who have worked and worked hard, can stay with a long nose.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U223	Please, Terje Trei!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U224	Thank you! Good minister! I have a question of calculating the fees of the insolvency practitioners. I refer here to the last paragraph of coordination in the explanatory memorandum. You mentioned earlier that certain interest groups have greater ambitions and make improvements, but it seems that there have already been quite large ambitions written here, because the Supreme Court was not satisfied that the calculation of the remuneration of the insolvency administrator may be based on an hourly calculation. In addition, in the case of a non-subsidised private limited liability company, the insolvency practitioner could essentially claim it as remuneration. How do you comment on that? The Supreme Court has made its assessment and is not satisfied with it, but it still says that changes remain in place.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U225	Thank you. The Supreme Court is undoubtedly an institution with a very high and serious prestige, but in this case it is not their expertise or position-making or justice. They do not express their views on the legality or constitutionality of this case, even though they do not express any influence or interest in court proceedings. The fact is, there's an hour's pay now. In itself, the remuneration of the administrator can also take place on three bases under current law. First, the rate of charge corresponding to the tasks, i.e. the performance charge. Secondly, a fixed percentage of the value of the liquidation assets or of the section paid to creditors may also exist at the same time. Thirdly, the hourly rate, which also exists under current law. The question is that, in itself, we would like to make the payment to the administrator in bankruptcy proceedings clearly case-by-case and performance-based in order to avoid cross-subsidisation in this system. It is clear that the market maintains the entire system of insolvency practitioners through insolvency and bankruptcy cases. It is important that the remuneration is also clearly correlated with the contribution or performance of the person with the relevant legal competence. That is the purpose and the request of the whole thing. Is what was proposed now the most ingenious solution? I will be honest: this is one of the options proposed to make charging more flexible and clearer in this complex area. I am sure that the Committee on Legal Affairs will listen to the alternatives and listen to the views of the experts. Insolvency and the right to insolvency concern, above all, the economic environment or its functioning, which is why it was very important for us to take into account the views of the economic public in these changes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U226	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U227	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You mentioned, and it is also stated in the explanatory memorandum, that the reporting period for expenditure incurred by the administrator will be extended from three months to six months. Why six months? What are the needs that lead to such an extension?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U228	Thank you. In fact, the whole question is that the reporting period could also be every three hours. How about you take checks to court eight times a day? This is obviously an absurd burden, meaningless and impractical. Consequently, if it is six months, the papering burden is simply twice as low. That's the whole point. With the costs to be proved, it remains the same, i.e. no one can easily write fictitious invoices or the like. Secondly, it is one thing to submit cheques, but in fact, other reporting periods in the Bankruptcy Act are six months old and these things could be harmonised. The whole logic of bankruptcy proceedings, which is not essentially called into question by this draft, is that the payment of the remuneration is still in its final phase. Some cases of bankruptcy may last for years, two or three years, so in fact, when presenting a three-month report, if the remuneration is actually paid at the end of everything, it does not have much practical meaning. All checks are usually carried out in this way: the court reviews the invoices and then confirms them, and the payment of the fee is still due at the end. However, the three-month period is short. In view of the evolution of bankruptcy proceedings, practice has shown that in many cases there have been little costs in the first three months. It's just the file's open and the procedure's started. They're gonna make those zeros that I'm gonna file the report, but the number is going to be zero.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U229	Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U230	Thank you, Minister. This draft also comes with a rather broad coordination table, which I am looking at here. There are many respected organisations here, such as the Banking Union, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, etc. In most cases it is written 'Not counted' or 'Accorded note'. Perhaps you will give us an overview of these proposals. It seems that for many of the subjects involved, the problem is much wider. There are a lot of proposals here.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U231	Yeah, they're on page 12. Andres, as a philosopher,'s call for a brief summary of this is very justified, and that must certainly be done in this chair. These proposals divided into three groups, I'd say, "Not counted" or not. First, the proposals of the Law Enforcement Tribunals and the Chamber of Bankruptcy Administrators to make the remuneration of the insolvency administrator more aggressive or broader, in fact, even more flexible. Let us remind you, however, that the pot from which the money is taken is still a pot of creditors. And this bankruptcy property is, let's say, limited property. In view of the public interest, perhaps, we found it reasonable to take certain steps in the interests of clarity. However, a balance must always be found in procedural decisions of this type. I believe that the Committee on Legal Affairs will also present its views, which are their legitimate interest. There are other types of proposals within the Banking Union or some other institution. In these cases, the observations are'so-called', which has also been taken into account in the preparation of the draft, and they do not in themselves contain any protests. Thirdly, I mention the very important proposal of the Banking Union, which is of fundamental importance. Their view is that individual issues should not be highlighted separately from the complete review. As the insolvency review is also ongoing, the Ministry of Justice should generally consider these matters in the context of the entire insolvency review and the remuneration of insolvency practitioners and all such matters should also be discussed more widely. It's such a broader philosophical subject. I have said that, as far as the review of business law, for example, we were talking here about the protection of minority shareholders' rights and other issues, I do not share this view. Our aim is to review the whole area, and if we then see, on some point, that a change is possible, necessary and understandable, then we will try to make sure that we do not only deal with one area. If we wish to paint the whole of the ceiling, for example, as is the case in the Estonian Theatre, we should not "enforce only one element" in legal life. The understanding is, of course, different; it is such a conceptual question. I think that's a legal philosophy. At the same time, in a broader sense, it is not even a political question, but rather a question of a world-viewed sense of whether it is possible to regulate life as a whole and in plurality and to create an ideal model in which to proceed. Some of the proposals were certainly those for which the initiator raised objections. It must be discussed whether it is reasonable to apply them in this form. For example, in the case of unemployment benefit, the Chamber of Commerce proposed a solution that would relieve the employee of the costs of filing for bankruptcy in the event of the insolvency of the employer and would be entirely borne by the State.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U232	Hatter, the second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U233	Thank you. The remuneration of bailiffs has largely been the subject at the end of the previous Riigikogu and also during its composition. They have been very jealous in their efforts to protect their rights. Since this bill has been written in a rather difficult language to understand, I would ask the Minister to explain. In the explanatory memorandum, the item 'Customise the temporary administrator to submit his claim for remuneration and expenses in exchange for the member of the silent partnership'. I understand it protects the bailiff and the insolvency practitioners. How does this work in practice, and what are the possible orders of magnitude that we could talk about?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U234	As regards the order of magnitude, according to a study on the effectiveness of insolvency proceedings carried out by PricewaterhouseCoopers, the remuneration of the temporary administrator or insolvency administrator is less than EUR 69% in proceedings, regardless of the value of the insolvency assets or whether the insolvency case was malicious or in good faith. However, the remuneration of the temporary administrator is in most cases EUR 2000, in some cases lower, in some cases higher. The question that a company has been formed against a member of the management board without property. It is such a legal choice that we have formed assetless companies. In itself, it is understandable, and within two hours, you can dive into business by registering a company online, without any assets, so that there are no guarantees for other and third market participants. The point is that, if such unfortunate bankruptcy has occurred, the costs of settling the company's case or case could be transferred to the interim administrator. As I said, it is probably a few thousand euros. I don't think it's excessive. It should not have a direct impact on bailiffs, specifically in the case of the temporary administrator.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U235	Please, Terje Trei!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U236	Thank you! I will come back to my question because I did not get a very precise answer before. Unlike the Minister, I consider the Supreme Court to be an expert, even if they simply express an opinion. Contrary to what you have said, I read in this table that they have, to put it mildly, made a negative assessment of both proposals. In the first case, this hourly rate is more likely to be counterproductive and, in the second case, they have even called the amendment incomprehensible. In particular, they point out that there is nothing wrong with giving the administrator the opportunity to recover the corresponding outstanding amount, but why is it only for the administrator and other debtors not covered? Then, in the end, only your pay will be demanded, etc. There's a lot of explaining in this table. Sorry, we're running out of time!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U237	Thank you. In fact, we do not want to withdraw from the concept that we have limited liability companies in order for people to dare to risk and act at all. In this sense, if we were to say that I am nowUtrating a little, because the Supreme Court itself did not make such an open proposal that any obligations that the company has incurred could be reversed against a member of the board, then I must admit that our private companies would be similar to a full company. No, I didn't say the Supreme Court was somehow a bad expert or something. I said that the Supreme Court is a legal expert, certainly practical and with extensive experience in the line of other experts. Their proposal was specifically linked to two issues which they considered to be incomprehensible. The Ministry has also explained this case, which was incomprehensible to the Supreme Court, and emphasised that there is no question here. The amount of the temporary administrator's remuneration will continue to be determined by the court by means of a regulation, which is why the feared situation in which the amount of the temporary administrator's remuneration is automatically EUR 2000 cannot arise. The regulation will only provide the temporary administrator with one additional opportunity to receive remuneration for the performance of his duties: in a situation where bankruptcy proceedings are not announced, but are terminated due to the collapse. The second issue, which is more fundamental, is that the Supreme Court actually expressed its scepticism about this proposal, which seeks to enable insolvency practitioners to be remunerated in the event of the useless proceedings. However, this proposal has been made by the insolvency practitioners, we have not hidden it in any way. Their reasoning seemed to be compelling to the Ministry as, in certain cases, the court is currently unable to pay the insolvency administrator a fee, even though the administrator has done everything in his power to increase the insolvency assets. It's a gap. I mean, it's work, it's work, it's work, and it's opportunity, or, let's say, the place from which to accept this fee would be, but you see, there's a legal construction, procedurally, so you can't pay it. In order to settle this, we wanted this legal clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U238	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U239	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You have quite well summed up the content of my question with this answer, but I will ask you. However, the incentive for this draft is an objective situation. Is this related to the fact that the number of bankruptcies in Estonia is in a declining trend compared to ten years ago? Does it have any effect?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U240	In fact, we have a large number of legal offices with freelancers, which live from market relations to bailiffs, notaries, as well as lawyers and insolvency practitioners. In the case of notaries, if the economy is doing well, the revenue of the notaries will increase slightly, and if the economy is doing badly, they will grow exponentially. I certainly do not deny that it is the interest of the Ministry of Justice to see that the sustainable management of their keepers is also guaranteed in all these liberal professions. This does not mean, of course, that, from our point of view, in any way, the fees of insolvency practitioners should be increased or kept in the garage for a possible future economic crisis. Absolutely not. With regard to the remuneration of the insolvency administrator, we do not in itself deal with the fact that the rates, say, are exponentially increased or reviewed at all. This bill deals with the fact that once the insolvency practitioner has done its job in a particular case, it would be more flexible to ensure that he is paid for the work. It's not like he's getting ten times as much pay or anything. This is the main starting point. The number of bankruptcies has, of course, been on a downward trend if we take, for example, the time of the last major economic crisis. This does not mean, however, that we do not have problems of malicious insolvency or trust, which are quite serious in our economic environment. One of the keywords is precisely that our insolvency proceedings start too late to take anything anymore. In the past, proceedings should be initiated, then more can be pawned, and, as I said, workers, or creditors, at least receive some part of the money back.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U241	Minister, there are no further questions for you. Thank you very much. Liisa Oviir, member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, will make a presentation of the commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U242	Good President! Good minister! The Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee discussed the draft law amending the Bankruptcy Act, the Credit Institutions Act and the Unemployment Insurance Act 575 on Thursday, 8 February and 8 February. Uno Kaskpeit, Hardi Volmer, Külliki Kübarsepp, Liisa Oviir, Helmut Hallemaa, Raivo Aeg, Taavi Rõivas, Toomas Paur, Urve Tiidus and Valdo Randpere took part in the committee meeting. In addition, advisers Linnar Liivamägi and Raini Laide were present and Indrek Niklus, the Minister of Justice, Urmas Reinsalu and Head of the Private Law Department of the Ministry of Justice, was invited. Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu presented the content and purpose of the draft to the Commission. The draft amends the Bankruptcy Act, the Credit Institutions Act and the Unemployment Insurance Act. The aim is to ensure legal clarity in the remuneration of the insolvency practitioner in the event of bankruptcy proceedings for the insolvent company and to remove disproportionate restrictions on the remuneration of employees of the insolvent company in the event of the insolvency of the employer. Everything else is what Urmas Reinsalu has already talked about in the Commission. There was no big discussion. Procedural decisions were taken. The first proposal was (consensually) to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 14 February. The second was a consensual decision to propose that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for amendments be set at 4 p.m. on 28 February 2018. Thirdly, it was decided to appoint Liisa Oviir as rapporteur for the commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-14_U243	There are no questions for the rapporteur. I will open negotiations on the general principles of the draft law. That's not what you want either. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 575. First reading is complete. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments to the draft at 4 p.m. on 28 February. Today's trial is over. A friendly Valentine's Day night for you! Closure of the sitting at 5.44 p.m.
