ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-10_U1	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the Tuesday session of the 11th working week of the VII plenary session. Now it's time to make inquiries and pass on the bill. I'll take them all, whether they are or many. That's not what you want. Then the presence check, please! 74 delegates will attend the meeting.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-10_U2	Today we have one but important item on the agenda: the Estonian Central Party Group, the Estonian Reform Party Group, the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party, the Social Democratic Party Group, the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union and the draft law amending the Holidays and Celebrations Act initiated by the Estonian Free Party Group 591 first reading. Please present a speech chair for a member of the Riigikogu, Kersti Sarapuu!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-10_U3	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am delighted to introduce you to the first reading of Bill 591, which deals with the amendment of the Holidays and Celebrations Act, which has been initiated by all the political groups of the Riigikogu. I believe that there are no people in this Chamber who do not understand the importance of local governments in Estonian society and its development. After all, this is the primary grassroots level where a person can turn to his or her concern or joy. As one of the constitutional institutions, the local government has figured out both yesterday and today in Estonia and earned the trust of the people. Our task is to maintain and consolidate this trust. The purpose of the draft is to establish a legal basis for a dignified indication of the role of local government in the creation, restoration and development of the Estonian state. The municipality day would, on the one hand, be a recognition of the local governments' history and activities to date. On the other hand, it would be an opportunity to better present the nature, problems and activities of the municipality in order to involve the whole society in solving the current and future challenges of the municipalities. Understandably, the question arises as to why we want to celebrate municipal day on 1 October, when we also celebrate music day and the day of the elderly, for example. The reason is history: it was on 1 October 1866 that the first law on public administration in our area entered into force. Thus, on October 1, 2017, 151 years passed since the Estonians had the opportunity to organise their own lives for over many centuries and create their own public administration. When the state was recreated, municipalities were also linked to this date. The restoration of modern Estonian local government was a very important event on 1 October 1990, when the status of local government was first granted to Muhu rural municipality and the city of Kuressaare. Based on the above, this date has been selected for the municipal festival. The important role of the municipality has already been emphasised in the last two years, with regard to the municipality's day. The first day of Estonian self-government was held in the Riigikogu in October 2016. On that day, it was stressed that Estonian community administration and later local self-government have been the foundation on which knowledge and experience have been gained to exercise public power, to create statehood and later to restore it. In 2017, Estonia's second day of self-government was held, which was dedicated to the 100th birthday of the Republic of Estonia. The focus was then on the restoration and development of Estonian local government associations during the 1989-2017 period, but also on history and plans were made for the future. Several municipalities have already expressed their wish to organise the following municipal days, such as the leaders of the municipalities of Narva, Tartu, Pärnu and Harku. Thus, the tradition has already been laid as a cornerstone, but the introduction of a national deadline would give the topic an even greater voice. Today, the responsibility of local governments is growing, with new challenges facing administrative reform. A number of important changes in the area of self-government are still needed, which should ensure a more democratic functioning of society and more efficient provision of services. Increasing the income base of the municipalities by the current government gives the municipalities an even more important role and better opportunities to promote life in Estonia. It is therefore very important to note the municipality day as a national deadline. Above all, it provides an opportunity to recognise the role of local governments in society and to improve the coherence and cooperation between members of society through various events and communication activities. In this way, the activities of the municipalities will be even more localised and the inhabitants will be involved in decision-making and regional development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-10_U4	The round of questions opens Kalle Laane. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-10_U5	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! How do you think the celebration of the new day of self-governance could affect the two other days that you mentioned on the same day - the music day and the day of the elderly? Is there any way that this would add value to these days or reduce them? What do you feel?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-10_U6	Thank you for your question. I think it's more of a matter of importance. As we know, the life of all local governments is very much linked to this very day of the elderly and also to the music day. Municipalities have always put their shoulders on to celebrate these days. I believe that this action will get even more momentum.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-10_U7	Hanno Pevkur.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-10_U8	Thank you. We must also respond by the Riigikogu to the musicians' community, who have approached us with the same question. But my question goes a little bit into another area that my colleague Adams and I discussed here a little bit. The original reason for announcing this day is the "first mention" of the municipalities and giving them rights, but we had a debate on whether to refer to the modern calendar or the old calendar. It depends on whether that day could have shifted ten days to one side or the other. What is your position, should we follow the current calendar or the old calendar? How old do you think we should change that date?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-10_U9	Thanks for the fun question. Things have been different in their time. But it can also be based on 1 October 1990, when the local government system was restored in Estonia and the city of Muhu and Kuressaare received the status of local government. It's already been happening in our time, so the heat fits very well.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-10_U10	George Adams.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-10_U11	Dear waitress, Are there such dates in other countries and, if so, what is the practice?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-10_U12	Thank you for your question. I am indebted to the answer in this regard. I know that Latvia has been very active in this direction. And he and Estonia were one of the first 151 years ago when common administrative arrangements were established.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-10_U13	Please, Heidy Purga!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-10_U14	Thank you. As Mr Pevkur pointed out earlier, 1 October is an international music day with a very long tradition of celebration. In this case, over 100 concerts are organised every year. Have you also taken into account the importance of 1 October as a music day when discussing this bill and have you discussed the Estonian Music Council's approach?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-10_U15	Thank you for your question. International Music Day is a very important day. But there's no way I can get past the fact that local authorities have been very much helping to organise the music day. I can talk about Paide, my hometown, where Arvo Pärt was born. Arvo Pärt's music has always been widely promoted and presented these days, in the same way in Rakvere. And other musical events have been supported and helped by local authorities these days. I don't think that's gonna make the music day any less important.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-10_U16	March Sults.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-10_U17	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! Here's the question. Thanks to the municipalities, we are all chosen here, and it is very nice and honorable when we celebrate this day. After all, we value our governments, our citizens, our people and our country. But do you think this will set a precedent? Perhaps, like a sleeve, there will be proposals for the national celebration of all days.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-10_U18	Thank you for your question. I don't think it's gonna bring about a situation like this. Rather, I think that local authorities have so far had to accept less attention, even though it is thanks to them that life is working throughout Estonia. They are addressed by our people; they are solved by all issues-problems. Local authorities are very, very important in Estonia. And I think that if we start celebrating this day separately, we will understand this importance even more.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-10_U19	Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-10_U20	Thank you. However, the question of Heidy Purga pointed out that the calendar is a somewhat limited resource and that the days to be celebrated must have some extra-state meaning as well. Have you considered how many days of this kind should be devoted to national structures? In fact, no one doubts the importance of local governments. But if the country tries not only to recognise itself, but also to acknowledge itself, adding national dates, do you not fear that the calendar will be too full and the days to be celebrated will overshadow each other?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-10_U21	When we look at the anniversary calendar, we see that almost every day there is something to celebrate. But there are dates that should be more amplifying. Yes, there are 365 days a year in the calendar and could have been chosen by local governments for the birthday of another day. However, it is precisely the union of cities and the association of rural governments, as well as very many other organisations, who have proposed that this day be exactly 1 October. And I don't think that's at all wrong.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-10_U22	George Adams, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-10_U23	Dear waitress, The calendar exchange took place in Estonia at the beginning of February 1918 when it was 13 days apart. October 1 of the Old Julius calendar would be either October 12 or October 13 in our current calendar. Here's my question. In the explanatory memorandum, a huge amount of attention had been paid to the fact that Mr Baranoff, the governor general of the provinces of Ostsee, declared this law for some reason on 1 October, I think he didn't just arrive earlier, in principle could have done it earlier, then what was the significance of that date in historical terms. We might as well, if we are very sure of our desire, to celebrate this day on 13 October.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-10_U24	Thank you for your question. I think that October 1 is still a meaningful date. Of course, the two calendars really are about two weeks apart, but the association of rural municipalities, the association of cities and other organisations have proposed to celebrate this day on 1 October, because on 1 October 1990, at the time of the restoration of independence, the local government system was restored in Estonia, and the municipality of Muhu and the town of Kuressaare were granted the status of local government.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-10_U25	Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-10_U26	Thank you. It may be felt that when the day of self-governance is celebrated, the day will be very important. It can undoubtedly overshadow the other days celebrated on 1 October. What are your arguments to give the Estonian Music Council the assurance that their day with a long cultural tradition will in no way be obscured or become, I do not know, secondary or invisible?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-10_U27	Thank you for your question. I've been a mayor for ten years, both the mayor and the chairman of the council. I know how important music day has always been. We always organized and supported all musical events on that day in other ways.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-10_U28	Thank you. No further questions for the rapporteur. I would like to ask Marko Pomerants, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to present the report of the commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-10_U29	Good morning, President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, As regards the debate on this draft in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I would be able to pass on its content in 2.5 minutes, but I promise myself to leave the context of this debate and to comment a little on the questions that were put here to the representative of the initiator of the draft. There's definitely a conflict between two calendars, a new one and an old one. However, if we come to this law, which is considered the first local government law in Estonia, the name is 'Makoggukonda Act for the Baltia-merre Kubbermangud Ria-, Tallinn- and Kura-male', then it must be said that it is clearly a law in which everything we now read about in the Local Government Organisation Act and the Public Service Act is described in the terms of today's legal space. It said, for example, that if an official has worked hard for two members, he will receive a badge of honor. There's a story about the manor police, and this provision could be the basics of law enforcement. It also refers to the court of first instance, i.e. the municipal court. This is certainly a significant piece of legislation. Whoever wants to surf, it's perfectly there as a Word document, doesn't have to bother reading an old Gothic letter. As far as the national dates we are talking about are concerned, there are two things that should not be confused. Indeed, there are days to celebrate internationally. It is an international day of the elderly, which I have also celebrated as an elderly person, and an international music day, but neither of them is the national anniversary mentioned in the Estonian Holidays and Celebrations Act. Take, for example, a day like 9 May. Can you imagine how it would be possible to celebrate victory in the great patriotic war and to celebrate Europe Day on the same day? In fact, Europe Day dates back to 1985. Music Day, if no one knows, will be held from 1 October 1975. Kersti Sarapuu was also asked if we had discussed a letter from the Music Council. The answer is no. The reason is very simple: this letter arrived at the Committee on Constitutional Affairs after we had finished preparing the draft at first reading in the committee and made our decision. I'm sure we'll discuss turning to the music council between the two readings. If you're looking at the law of our anniversary, you'll see that there's nothing very massive about it. This is a combination of many celebrations for many reasons. I am thinking of national holidays, not public holidays. We also find inspiration from the church calendar, e.g. the anniversary of the Tartu Peace Treaty in Estonian history, the birthday of Kristjan Jaak Peterson, thanks to the efforts of Sonda's man Meinhard Laks, is the basis of the mother tongue day, the day of mourning is understood to come from the history of Estonia, August 23, we have given important meaning to it, not just the day of one pact, but the day of commemoration of the victims of communism and Nazism, the day of grandparents has been added to this row in 2010 and the third Saturday of October is the day of the tribe. I skipped the day of the resistance fight, but at the end of the year, Father's Day and the rebirthday will come. So I personally do not see the conflict in this October 1st. When we look at what has happened in the history of the world and Estonia on 1 October, we see that there are still events. When we come to Estonian history, it is also the birthday of the well-known local government character Andrus Ansip. And in 1950, I don't know if it was some kind of lucky day, maybe we shouldn't take this into account. The higher art school Pallas started its activities in Tartu. And so on, there are more examples. Local authorities, as far as I know, are hosting a large number of orchestras. I do not think there is any reason to say that they are helping to earn the day of the local government or vice versa. I know the city of Narva as an example, I know the city of Pärnu as an example, even the town of Rakvere has its own little orchestra. In fact, supporting music life, which we have not made in the Riigikogu for local governments, is a daily practice in the activities of local governments. But now to the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. This was done on 2 April 2018. Those questions that came up, I've been through without the protocol. The Commission took the following decisions: to put this draft on the plenary agenda by 10 April 2018, to close the first reading (consensually) and to propose that the deadline for amendments be set at 24 April. 5.15 p.m. (also consensually). It was decided to appoint me as rapporteur for the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-10_U30	This appointment also implies an obligation to answer questions. Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-10_U31	I'll ask you a question as a local government figure. When Napoleon didn't have the money to pay the soldiers' wages, he founded the Legion of Honour. Municipalities do not have a number of rights. It was only just now that Aab announced that the special plan would go on, despite the fact that it was illegal. The decision of the Tartu Council costs nothing. The bike repeated it. The construction of Muhu Bridge has not even asked whether the muhus live there or not, or what they think of it. That's our situation right now. The local government doesn't pay much in the eyes of the Government of the Republic, but it's designed to make a dignified mention. Don't you think that's the point of hypocrisy? Perhaps it would be better to listen to local authorities and give them some self-governing rights?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-10_U32	Thanks! I know a lot of examples where cash would be better than normal thanks. And the song is that there's no point in bringing flowers to the teacher, some other motivating means would be better. With regard specifically to the cases that you, a good colleague, have in mind, whether it is a special plan or some other arrangements, we, as legislators, have provided for the role and rights of local government in the law. I mention, for example, the Environmental Impact Assessment and Environmental Management System Act and the Planning Act. Things aren't always what they seem. These are very detailed laws and very few have actually read them.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-10_U33	Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-10_U34	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I agree with the previous question: how would the Committee on Constitutional Affairs look at it if the amendment should be mentioned as the day of self-governing rights?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-10_U35	Thanks! It would certainly be worth discussing, but whether it would change the substance or the nature of the matter very much, I am not sure of it. However, the deadline for amendments is set, and anyone who is entitled to do so under the Rules of Procedure can submit their proposals to us. We will definitely discuss them, draw our conclusions, and then see which text will reach this second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-10_U36	Thank you very much, dear waitress. No further questions for you. I will open negotiations for representatives of the political groups. Aivar Chef, Fatherland and Res Publica Union, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-10_U37	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, We're arguing about dates here, but it's clear from one calendar. On 1 October 1866, the first law of our public administration, the law of the rural community, entered into force for the governorates of the Baltic Sea, or Riga, Tallinn and Courland. Thus, on October 1, 152 years will pass since the Estonians and Latvians had the opportunity to start organizing their own lives for over centuries and to create their own public administration. It was an invaluable school that allowed the creation of the Republic of Estonia and, after a while, the restoration of independence. Since 1 October 1990, the Estonian self-government system was restored in terms of self-governing status. The first was officially the municipality of Muhu and the town of Kuressaare. Against this background, the first day of Estonian self-government was organised here in the Riigikogu on 4 October 2016. On that day, it was noted that Estonian community administration and later local government have been the foundation on which knowledge and experience have been gained for the exercise of public authority and later for the establishment and restoration of statehood. On this very first day of self-government, we proposed that we should also celebrate the day of self-government at national level. This proposal collected over 200 signatures. The second day of Estonian self-government took place on 26 September last year. It was dedicated to the 100th anniversary of the Republic of Estonia, and it marked the restoration and development of Estonian local governments and their associations during the 1989-2017 period. An appropriate collection was also prepared, reflecting the restoration, operation and development of municipalities and the local government day. The authors of the collection are members of the Riigikogu and state and local government characters, as well as scientists. And at this event, which took place in Kalev's fitness hall, signatures were collected and, if I remember correctly, a total of just over 300 were received. In February this year, the conference hall of the Riigikogu held a forum entitled "Estonian State and Government - 100 Years', where we also presented the new book "Estonian Local Government and Associations - 100', which includes all the leaders of the re-independence and rural governments, as well as those who, in October-November, became the presidents of the new local government council and heads of local governments. The local government needs even greater attention from society. Recognition and opportunities to use all of the ways in which social dialogue can be developed should be combined with increasing responsibilities. The transformation of municipal day into a national anniversary provides an important opportunity to increase the role of municipalities in society. Together, cooperation and development in the field could be better linked. In short, Estonian municipalities deserve their national anniversary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-10_U38	The general principles of the draft law will continue to be discussed by Urve Tiidus, a representative of the Reform Party Group. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-10_U39	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, According to the Constitution, all local governments that act independently under the law decide and organise local life issues. Municipal decisions are authorised to be made by elected councils of residents. Which one of us doesn't know the text of the Constitution? Do local authorities deserve a separate national deadline? Yeah, I think they do, too. Not only because the municipal rights were restored in Kuressaare on 1 October of one year, it is due to the fact that, through the municipalities, this proposed date affects all Estonian people. I will not repeat the reasons given in the explanatory memorandum. Here too, there is a number of men and women with practical experience in managing local government. They all know what it means to provide high-quality services, what it means to stand up for a good, pleasant and attractive living environment, what it means to create conditions for the development of entrepreneurship and to be responsible for ensuring that every child in every part of Estonia can receive a competitive training for life in municipal schools. Local government has more duties than two hands and more responsibilities than is sometimes wanted to admit. In particular, local governments have the opportunity to make decisions closest to the population, and the criticism of these decisions is also the closest one. As we all know, a progressive municipality can attract new residents and entrepreneurs regardless of their geographical location. This is very well done in the explanatory memorandum, and I repeat: this draft is worth supporting. In the explanatory memorandum, however, I quote Jüri Uluots from 1933. The sentence is this: 'The municipality of Estonia has been the cornerstone on which the present time is based. ' And for my part, I add that the local government remains the base on which the future can rely. If, on 1 October, the flag of ethical and honest local self-government is elevated throughout Estonia, then the initiation of the draft has gone ahead. In this hall there was concern as to whether the obligations and rights of the local government were in a balance with the obligations and rights of the state. This debate will always last, it will never be final. There was also a very nice question about whether one date could hold several dates. Of course you can! After all, the most important roles of local government are to promote cultural life and probably this contact on one day, and on 1 October, some very, very beautiful and beautiful tradition will be born, celebrating the anniversary of music and local government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-10_U40	There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 591. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft at 5.15 p.m. on 24 April. We, ladies and gentlemen, will meet in this Chamber tomorrow at 1 p.m. I wish everyone a busy day. Closure of the sitting at 10.33 a.m.
