ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U1	Good morning, Reverend Riigikogu. The session of the 6th working week of the VIIIth plenary session will begin with enquiries and referrals of draft laws. That's not what you want. Incoming check, please! 70 MPs will attend the meeting.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U2	First reading of draft Act 711 on the approval of amendments to the 1996 Protocol to the Convention on the Prevention of Pollution from Waste and Other Substances, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'd like the Secretary of the Environment, Siim Kisler, to wait for the chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U3	Honourable manager! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Waste and Other Substances, the London Convention, was adopted in 1972. This Convention regulates global dumping at sea, i.e. the sinking of solids into the sea, including waste and other materials. The Convention requires that these activities do not cause marine pollution. For example, when deep sea soil is deepened and placed in another place, it must not lead to the spread of hazardous substances in sea water. It also requires that similar activities be subject to prior environmental impact assessment and authorisation by the public authority, where appropriate. As a general rule, under the Convention, dredging surfaces, sewage sludge, waste from the fishing industry, old vessels, inert inorganic material, natural organic material, large, safe metal objects and carbon dioxide may be sunk or placed in the sea. The London Convention also includes the Protocol adopted in 1996, which specifies the environmental safety requirements for dumping and related activities. This Protocol was amended in 2009 and 2013 and this draft concerns accession to the Protocol with amendments. Currently, 87 States and 50 States have acceded to the Convention. Many Baltic Sea countries, though not all, have joined both the Convention and the Protocol. Latvia and Lithuania are preparing for accession. The amendments to the Protocol, which are approved by this draft, concern the sinking of liquefied carbon dioxide as a new regulated activity, rather its transfer to the layers of soil on the seabed in such a way that it does not escape, as well as marine fertilisation and geotechnical work in the sea. Fertilisation and geotechnical work can be done, for example, to influence water quality, to change the situation of marine habitats or to make better and more profitable use of marine resources. In Estonia, these activities are regulated by water permits under the Water Act. The new activities covered by the bill, such as the placing of carbon dioxide in the sea and marine fertilisation or geotechnical works, have not been carried out in the Estonian sea area. However, the soil is deepened and placed on the seabed, such as in sandy fields. Despite the fact that new activities have not yet been carried out in Estonia, it is still necessary to approve amendments to the Protocol. This will ensure that the Estonian authorities can properly authorise activities in maritime areas outside national jurisdiction, i.e. areas that are not regulated by the laws of any country. In regions such as the oceans and the open sea, each country itself has to issue its own licences to its own entrepreneurs or to companies from any other country that apply for a permit to operate through Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U4	The first question is put to the Minister Urve Tiidus. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U5	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. This is the practical question that arises right here. These principles and objectives are all fantastic and joiners are many, it shows that this is an important issue. How will this monitoring be carried out? We know that in the ocean, even at sea, it is possible to operate quite secretly and in secret, it is not always possible to keep an eye on who is doing what.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U6	In the large oceans, Estonia is certainly not monitoring, our direct area of interest is the Baltic Sea, and here we are, of course, able to organise our surveillance activities in cooperation with other countries. The issue is, above all, that if anyone intends to carry out activities of this kind and has to apply for permission, then this convention will say, on what principles and in what light this authorisation is granted, i.e. what is allowed and not allowed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U7	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U8	Good manager! Good waitress! I'm reading the word "hidden" here. Tell me a little bit more about when you first started using the word "confidence." Isn't there a better word to put in place?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U9	For the first time, I used the word 'coverage' sometime after I took office as Minister of the Environment, I can't tell you the exact date. That's a pretty nice term to me. I also don't know any more suitable Estonian words about drowning solids in the sea, so why not use the word 'conservation'.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U10	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U11	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Actually, my penguin stole my question. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] But I will continue on the same subject nonetheless. In fact, neither the vocabulary nor the dictionary explaining the Estonian language know such a word. In Finnish, however, the word kaamimen means pouring and pouring. Still, where did this word and this innovation come from? We would probably have enough beautiful expressions in Estonian as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U12	Thank you. I don't know the origin of the word, and I don't know if it's a loan word. It is probably not a foreign word, perhaps it is indeed a loan word from Finnish. The language is constantly renewed, and I think it is also technical. This needs to be taken care of, otherwise there is a risk that we will use more and more English words in our spoken language. That is why I think that innovation is very sensible, necessary and useful for the Estonian language as a whole. Why not use the word 'conceived' when it's already in circulation? I hope that the innovators of the Estonian lyrics dictionary will draw on this situation and also adopt this word. These activities, which are mentioned in the Protocol's additions and amendments, actually concern a new area on which the word 'geotechnics' has become used in Estonia, i.e. artificially some activity or act that can also mitigate and change climate change. It is not only maritime, but it can also be used in atmospheric layers, for example. In English, the corresponding word is geoengineering. In the same way, there is no exact term in Estonian, I assume that there is no literal wordbook, but somewhere the terms have to come, we have to update our own language.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U13	Urve Tiidus, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U14	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. My first question, however, concerned more supervision and how it is done in the oceans, but I understand that our interest is still more the Baltic Sea. In this context, I would also like to ask for clarification on the subject of marine fertilisation. The Baltic Sea is well-nutrient and fertilizer is in all its forms, but unfortunately, all or most of it is not beneficial to the marine environment. Can you explain the situation in which we fertilize the sea? I understand, of course, that this is quite a specific subject, but since you were talking about geo-engineering, I'm sure you can answer that, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U15	Thank you. As far as I am aware, there has been no fertilization in the Baltic Sea, and Estonian laws prohibit both the discharge of CO2 into the sea in the Baltic Sea and the fertilisation. We have a problem with nitrogen, but this fertilization could also be the addition of iron or phosphorus or other particles into the environment. As far as I know, South American countries are implementing it to some extent in their coastal waters, but rather these activities are still in the experimental phase. Fertilisation, for example, can promote the growth of algae, and algae in turn bind or use nutrients found in seawater and also bind carbon dioxide. Later, these algae are introduced in some other way. This could affect the state of the sea, but in the end, activities that fight climate change can also be carried out. In general, these areas are at a relatively experimental stage. Internationally, for example, at the next United Nations Large Environment Assembly, apparently at the initiative of Switzerland, we are discussing what international agreements we should have at all in order to regulate when countries artificially engage in activities that could also affect the climate.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U16	Thomas Vitsu.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U17	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! Such regulation and accession to international agreements or conventions usually entail certain costs. What costs could this entail?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U18	Thank you. We don't see any extra costs right now. Rather, we show that we are progressive here and among those countries that are coming with this kind of change immediately. In general, countries such as Finland and the Netherlands are taking the lead. We do not now foresee that we should start giving many such permits in the coming years, all the more so because, as I said, these activities in the Baltic Sea are banned. In theory, a company or a ship that wishes to apply for this permit through us may be considered, but now we appreciate that this option is less than one permit per year. Maybe that doesn't mean too much work for our officials.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U19	Hardi Volmer.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U20	Thank you. Respectables! Recently, I was shocked to hear such news: it turned out that high-ranked and anticipated cruise ships, whose home port usually does not belong to our Baltic Sea pool, they usually come from outside the Baltic Sea and drive around here, covering and fouling our precious Baltic Sea water completely with impunity. Does this change have anything to do with cruise ships? Is there any difference compared to our own ships at sea?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U21	Thank you. No, as far as I'm concerned, cruise ships don't cover. And this particular draft law only concerns geotechnical activities. Perhaps these changes do not specifically regulate this area.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U22	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U23	Good manager! Good waitress! It's the same thing about dumping. It is said here that this is all deliberate discharges of waste into the sea. As I understand it, oil spills, if this isn't intentional, aren't dumping. But shooting bilge water, is that dumping?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U24	Thank you. Shooting bilge water into the sea is not dumping. The dumping is primarily in the case of solids, but, let's say, when we talk about carbon dioxide: when it's pressed, in liquid form, deep down in the ocean, it's under a lot of pressure, and then it stays in liquid form and doesn't move away from there. This is such a permanent placement, not a dilution into water.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U25	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U26	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I'm quite interested in the fact that many I don't even know how to ask for hundreds or millions of tons of tons of the world's sea a year. In Europe, where there is a fight for a clean and green natural environment, is there no movement that would prohibit such dumping? What's the reaction to that?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U27	Thank you. I really don't know what to say. I'm sure a lot of it hasn't been registered anywhere. It's illegal. Recently, at least in the European Union's Environment Council, this issue has not been discussed, but the same London Convention as the amendments to the protocol we are discussing here is what concerns this issue. Of course, the countries of the European Union are at the forefront of ratification and are also calling on other countries to accede to this Convention. Usually, when you invite others to join, you have to set an example and be among the joiners, otherwise it is very difficult to tell others that you join and follow these rules. However, the European Union's meetings do not discuss the issues of dumping, but primarily the pollution of the oceans, which is mainly plastic, to a large extent the part that floats on the surface. It interferes more with the life of fish and animals, kills them, and then ends up on our shores.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U28	Please, Vilja Thomas!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U29	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I am not really aware of how the Baltic Sea Strategy has developed over the last few years, but I ask whether this draft now has anything to do with this. Is this in line with the Baltic Sea Strategy?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U30	Thank you. It is certainly consistent, although it does not directly concern, because these activities are currently not taking place in the Baltic Sea, i.e. it is an agreement either way or otherwise. The state of the Baltic Sea is, as we know, different when we talk about nutrients or other things. It's a relatively shallow sea, so these activities here are not either way or in any way.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U31	There were questions about the truck. Thank you for your answers, Minister. Meelis Mälberg will make a presentation of the commission, but before we ask him a question from Arto Asa. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U32	Thank you, President-in-Office. Well, it was a nice and substantive debate, but there was one detail that got scratched. The international community knows that the name of the Estonian Environment Minister is Siim Valmar Kiisler, but the tablet was written by Siim Kiisler. Why are you teasing the Minister like that?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U33	It's kind of a character. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] In case it was offensive, I'm sure I'll apologize to Siim Valmar Kiisler. Meelis Mälberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U34	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Government of the Republic initiated the draft Act approving the amendments to the 1996 Protocol to the Convention on the Prevention of Pollution from Waste and Other Substances, 2009 and 2013, on 8 October 2018. In addition to the Minister, Finland, Sweden, Denmark, Germany and Estonia have joined the Baltic Sea countries in this protocol. And as the Minister said, Latvia and Lithuania are preparing for accession to the Protocol. As of last October, the 2009 amendments have been approved by five countries and the 2013 amendments have been approved by two countries. These amendments shall enter into force once two thirds of the States Parties have approved them. The Environment Committee was invited on 15 October to present the draft by Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry of the Environment, Harry Liiv, and Kaspar Anderson, adviser to the Marine Environment Department. The draft explained to the Commission Harry Liiv and, when presenting the draft, I am not going to recount all this; the Minister did so very thoroughly, he said so much that the effects on Estonia are small and all of them are already regulated in the Water Act. There may be an impact when a ship flying the flag of Estonia travels outside the Baltic Sea and there is a different kind of dumping work, such as storage of carbon dioxide into the ocean. The Environment Committee took the following decisions at its meeting on 15 October: appoint Member of the Commission Meelis Mälberg as rapporteur, propose that the first reading of the draft be placed on the agenda of the Riigikogu plenary by 25 October 2018, propose that the first reading of the draft be terminated and propose that the deadline for amendments to draft 711 be set at 16 a.m. on 8 November 2018. All decisions were taken by the Committee on the Environment in a consensual manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U35	Thank you very much for the waitress. There are no questions. I'll open negotiations if that's what I want. That's not what you want. As the rapporteur said, the proposal of the commission is to finish the first reading of draft 711. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 16 a.m. on 8 November.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U36	Second item: First reading of the draft law amending the language law initiated by the members of the Riigikogu Tarmo Kruusimäe, Priit Sibula, Jaak Madison, Henn Põlluaasa, Madis Milling, Igor Gräzini, Jaanus Karilaidi and Märt Sults (666 SE). Please present a speech chair for the member of the Riigikogu Tarmo Kruusimäe!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U37	Good vice chairman! Good coworkers! I am here before you with the draft law amending the language law, which bears the badge number 666. It can be said that the devil is in the details, or it is in the people. This bill has been initiated because a year ago, when we met the people of the Language Inspectorate, we were aware of the problem of a massive violation of the language law. When we met Ilmar Tomusk, he pointed out that the instruments given by the state to the Language Inspectorate had, unfortunately, run out of time. Let me give you a simple example. At present, § 32 of the Language Act provides for a maximum amount of EUR 640 to be charged for failure to comply with an inspection injunction. Imagine a larger company where a customer service attendant happens to violate the language law! The Language Inspectorate will then be able to apply a penalty payment of EUR 640. It shall also be directed either to find a new competent staff member or to send the staff member to the language courses. Clearly, this money is accepted kindly to send people to language courses, but the result is not. The draft was presented in the Committee on Culture on 15 October. It was a beautiful day. But I handed over this draft on the commemoration day of the June deportation, on 14 June, when the Riigikogu went to an ongoing meeting with voters. For me, it was a surprise that I was not asked a lot of questions in the Commission as a representative of the initiators of the draft. Ilmar Tomusk, Director General of the Language Inspectorate, mainly answered the questions. There is no denying that eight members of the Riigikogu have identified a problem and have been in contact with the Language Inspectorate by examining why supervision is not working. We've learned that the maximum amount of forced money has slipped through time. Ilmar Tomusk explained the damage, of course, that he is not here, so I'll explain to him what the penalty is and what the penalty is. Let's break the language code that you're not in the way of right now, but I do. For example, § 33 states that it is possible to impose a fine of up to 200 units for violating the obligation to use the Estonian language. One fine unit is currently EUR 4, so it is up to EUR 800. The same act, if committed for at least the second time, shall be paid up to 300 daily penalty units. Where such an act is committed by a legal person, it shall be punishable by a fine of up to EUR 2600. And from there, § 34: The absence of an Estonian translation in certain cases is punishable by a fine of up to 300 fine units, which is 1200 euros, and by a fine of up to 3200 euros. As far as coercion is concerned, I support the Director-General of the Language Inspectorate, Ilmar Tomusk, who told the Commission that, for example, kindergarteners who have not met these conditions have been awarded only EUR 40 and this has been effective. So if anyone thinks that the Language Inspectorate is a repressive body that is always banging maximum sentences, then that is not the case. What does statistics tell us? Let's take an example of this kind of data. In total, the last year was implemented in 178 cases. In checking the Estonian language skills of sales and service workers, 339 sales employees were tested for language skills and 229 employees with insufficient language skills were identified, which is 67.5%. Follow-up checks were carried out to verify that 156 employees had been ordered to do so. It turned out that 20 employees, or 12.8%, had fulfilled the precept. Ilmar Tomusk also said that if a school manager has been issued a forced payment, it will not be applied automatically. The Director shall be ordered to do so and, if he has not complied with it, the order for payment of the penalty shall be enforced. And it is not contested for a moment, it is immediately transferred. But look at the miracle, the head of the educational establishment gets the exact amount of the penalty paid in the same month! Is this hypocritical action, or are we in a comfort zone where we do not want to provide the Language Inspectorate with modern, effective tools? I'd describe it as saying to Ilmar Tomusk, be a good man and jump five meters. Erki Arrow can handle this, why can't you? At the same time, we refuse to give him the pole and will discuss whether the pole might be dangerous to the judge. We don't know what the problem is. In the Committee on Culture, however, it seemed to me that everything was a wink and a wink, everyone understood. Questions were almost not asked. Krista Aru asked if the initiators were considering penalties for legal and natural persons. I also support Ilmar Tomusk in this regard. I think the Language Inspectorate has the best knowledge and best practice of how to impose forced money in such a way that it is effective. As I mentioned, for example, the Language Inspectorate was able to impose a penalty of EUR 640 for the poor language skills of a kindergarten teacher, but they found it appropriate to charge EUR 40. And it was effective, it got us going. If we look at the incomes of companies and compare and find that the maximum rate of EUR 640 is, for example, somewhat effective in the case of educational establishments and should improve, that is not the case. It seems to me that in a strange way we have put the Minister of Education and Science Mailis Repsi in a difficult situation, as well as Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, who are saying that the position of the Estonian language in the public space needs to be strengthened. But we do not want to provide the resources necessary for monitoring. I call on you to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U38	Before you ask me a few questions. Madis Milling.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U39	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Humanly, I understand that Narva Maxima's seller doesn't really need Estonian, but somehow I assume that the seller of Saue Maxima in my hometown should be able to speak Estonian. Did you talk to Mr Tomusk about the very same chain of stores in Maxima, which has been constantly mentioned in the media for violating language requirements?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U40	Yes, Mr. Tomusk and I have talked about this. I expect that my words will not be misinterpreted, but this is a chain that does not want to pay employees a decent salary. People who, to some extent, speak Estonian and are able to serve, go from Maxima to work in other chains, where a few hundred euros more is paid. Maxima's kind of a breeding ground. I think there is room for improvement by raising the penalty rate. Integration as such happens, people come to Maxima, acquire an emergency language skills, and then they can be competitive in other occupations.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U41	Please, Olga Ivanova!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U42	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! Do you really think that by raising the penalty rate to EUR 6400, you will strengthen the position of the Estonian language in Estonia? And shouldn't we rather think about turning the Language Inspectorate into an office for developing the Estonian language at the Ministry, as it once was?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U43	Thank you! Quite frankly, I do! I'm not a co-author of this bill, let's say. It's been on for a year now. Unfortunately, I have not found such a consensus to present it on behalf of the group. On June 14, we had our last spring season meeting, and then I was told you could come out with this bill. But if we wanted to get the supervisory authority to perform other functions, to do development work, then we have the Institute of the Estonian Language. When we look at Archimedes' budget line, we can see that a pretty large administration is already working on the promotion and development of language. But people turn to us and ask where the surveillance is, what's going on. Is there a conscious violation of the Constitution? What's the problem? Together with the Language Inspectorate, we found that the problem is not the small fines that are currently in force, but the small penalty money, which is by nature something other than a fine. I think today's bill is the right way to go. Language can be taught intensively and passively; language can be taught by any ministry. The Ministry of Agriculture could do the same thing, why not! Roots have different names in different languages. For example, I know that beet is beet in Estonia and Sweden.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U44	Please, Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U45	Good Tarmo! Firstly, I want to improve that there was, in fact, quite a debate on this issue in the Committee on Culture, and there were also questions. In quite two days, we discussed this topic. But my question relates to the explanatory statement. It is written here that the purpose of the bill is to motivate the managers and entrepreneurs of institutions in a positive way, I emphasise positively, and it goes on to say that there is a need to increase the maximum amount of compulsory money. What does the word 'positive' mean to you?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U46	The word 'positive' is aimed at our constitution. Estonian language and culture need protection and if the law motivates entrepreneurs to fulfil their constitutional obligations, its content is positive. This is not for an entrepreneur who wants to break the law, but I think we should not focus too much on the offenders. Really, there weren't enough questions for me. One question was raised by Krista Aru, who asked whether the penalties of a natural person and a legal person were proportionate. Aadu Black asked me if the overall ceiling of EUR 9600 for compulsory payment by the Ministry of Justice would be acceptable to me. I remember my answer: I said that the Committee on Culture is expected to have the best knowledge, experience and competence in this area, and I fully trust this committee. He's been invited to deal with such matters. The third question was asked by Laine Randjärv, which I do not recall at the moment. However, Tomusk was asked, the representative of the Ministry of Education and Research and the representative of the Ministry of Justice were asked. But neither Toomas Jürgenstein nor Jaanus Marrand, my good colleague in the Committee on Economic Affairs, who was an alternate at that meeting, asked no questions. Didn't ask me a question about Heidy Purga. You yourself highlighted the problem of having Estonian-language houses, but the order of language learning is long and medium-sized entrepreneurs can go bankrupt due to the requirements. That is why this draft cannot be supported. That was actually your point of view. Sometimes dancers have problems, so they can't dance. It seems to me that if we focus on allowing the offence to be tolerated, I don't understand it. I'm gonna be honest with you, the focus's gone wrong somehow. And once again, the Language Inspectorate says that at this point in time, this maximum penalty is not effective. Obviously, nobody in this hall thinks they're going to go and punish the cashier with all the rigour. It would have to be a special villain if the Language Inspectorate went and demanded 6400 euros of coercive money from the cashier. Ilmar Tomusk confirmed that EUR 40 worked, because it was quite a lot of money for a particular kindergarten teacher. He chose this path to study and be competitive in the labour market.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U47	Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U48	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I admire you, and I admire others who have signed this bill. You are such knights in white in my eyes, true descendants of Sprenger and Institutorius, always out for the right thing. Let's hear it! Good for you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U49	Thank you, that was a very interesting theme setting! Now there are two options: whether you want a simple answer or such a restrained advance of the same thought flight. The simple answer is that the draft under consideration does not concern this matter. The second answer is that our information is directed against the embassy of the Russian Federation and that is where foreigners pass, who convey our message. In fact, we have very multicultural associations. There are Ukrainians among us, there are Estonians among us, there is a Serb among us, there is a Chechen among us, there is a Russian woman among us. There are quite a few people among us and our scandals are in English, Ukrainian, Russian, Chechen and Estonian. Just because the transparents don't see Estonian doesn't mean that Estonian doesn't sound like a picket. In fact, the Estonian language has been introduced by Ukrainians whose Estonian language is not the best pronunciation, but they have slogans 'Long live Estonia! ', 'Long live Ukraine! ' '.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U50	Please, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U51	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! You referred before to a private company that has had problems with language skills and language requirements. However, I will give an example of the taxpayer's dependent sector. In the capital city of Estonia, the head of school is Mr Garanža, who has been ignoring the requirements of the language law for several decades and has been fined several times by the Language Inspectorate. Likely, some of them, if not all of them, are simply included in school expenses with a calm heart. What values such a schoolmaster shapes in his students, we can all imagine. Will raising the cap on forced money tenfold help to solve this problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U52	Thank you! Sounds like it to me. At present, the school's accountant is able, as I pointed out in an example not mentioned by names, to sign up to EUR 640 for the school's expenses. However, 6400 euros of the prize is the amount that the Tallinn City Audit Committee and the auditors will be looking into, that maybe something is bad. EUR 640 for the head of an educational establishment is not actually a large sum. The work takes place, students go to school, school violence is not noticed, no sense of venom is not noticed, no alcohol is not noticed, no public policy violations are not noticed, so a bonus can be paid. However, if this amount is already ten times higher, there might be a problem. Perhaps Tallinn City Government will also have a problem and start thinking that it may be more useful to replace the school manager with someone who knows the Estonian language much better. I have had the honour of working in a house where the Lasnamäe Mechanics School and the Estonian Youth Work Centre were once located. I worked in the same house with these people. I met these heads of education, everyone. When Mr. No Comment was no longer the headmaster, everything worked. The person was the same, but he wasn't in the same line of work. And in my opinion, at that school, even though it was difficult times, the 2007-2008 years, everything worked, everything worked. So changing the headmaster doesn't mean that if he's taken to another post, there's gonna be some kind of disaster. However, there are important concepts, these values, which are also shaped in students by the idea that the laws are to be enforced and not to circumvent them.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U53	Jevgeni Ossinovski.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U54	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! Unlike my colleague, I do not admire you for this draft. This bill concerns Estonian, but you have even miswritten the word 'language law' in it. I read here: 'In Section 32 of the Law, the number... " But the greater concern is that the explanatory memorandum does not say much about why such a change should be made. Consequently, I have this question. I'm sure you've worked this out properly. What do you know about how other countries have dealt with this type of situation? In Europe, Estonia is not the only country with residents who do not speak enough of the official language. These countries, too, must respect their official language. Have they, in general, chosen incentive or punitive measures? What can you say about the practice of other European countries?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U55	Thank you! In the practice of European countries, language skills play a pretty important role in giving people citizenship. This is so in quite a number of countries. In our definition of third countries, there are exactly the same laws, we must speak the official language. But to what extent should we always be guided by European practice? I'm assuming that's a convenient excuse not to deal with this. Most of us, however, believe that we should strengthen the position of the Estonian language and that if one monitoring mechanism is a coercion, not a fine, then I think it means more flexibility. If I were in front of you right now with a bill designed to increase fines ten times, I could be charged with such accusations. But I realize that a lot of people don't understand what's a fine in nature and what's a coercion. I think we are based on the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, which states that our language and culture need protection. However, the experience of other European countries is interesting to take note of.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U56	Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U57	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Could you please tell me, for the sake of the verbatim, who was the head of the school who was awarded the coercive bonus, who appointed and when? It would be important to clarify this. And you repeatedly referred to Ilmar Tomusk in your report. Is this ten-fold increase in the cap on coercive money also his idea, or is it a conscious oversupply, in order to ultimately achieve perhaps not that large, but still a significant increase?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U58	Thank you! For the sake of the stenogram, I say that the Director-General of the Language Inspectorate, Ilmar Tomusk, is a gentleman, and I hope that I am a gentleman to some extent too. We didn't name names, but we identified a problem. He gave the same example in the Committee on Culture, where he did not mention names. Now, second question, set the ten-fold increase. In the spring of this year, several fines were raised tenfold in the Riigikogu, which means that they were in the way of time, the standard of living has gone out of the way. Personally, I believe that the ceiling of EUR 6400 is effective. Some probably think that EUR 640 is also effective, and some think that there is no real need to pay attention to offenders. Real life may go on. Yesterday I argued with one of my constituents who said: 'Kruusimäe, you have not understood at all what these Estonian-language houses are. The Estonian language houses are for you Estonians to speak Estonian and serve each other in Estonian, hold hands and sing each other. ' I said yes, it is right, but this house is the Republic of Estonia! I think the language law needs to be enforced. Would getting this bill into law affect anyone? Let's say that multinational groups may not be affected, but if you start ticking a rather large amount of money in the cost line, maybe optimization will start. And I think that in the process of optimization, the staff will be sent to language courses.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U59	Olga Ivanova, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U60	Thank you. It is a pity that we never learned anything about European practice. Have you even studied this before you started writing this bill to raise the bad rating of the Fatherland? But I come back to the wording of the explanatory statement. You said in your speech that you were defending the official language. Do you think defending a national language is equivalent to punishing someone?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U61	Thank you! That's a mediocre question! Sorry to be honest, but it's a mediocre question! Internships between European countries. What does it mean to know that people in Norway, for example, go to immersion camps? Some part of the Norwegian state border is common to Russia, and the laws state that the border must not be crossed by foot. People come on bikes. Then they go to immersion camps, where they have hot tubs and stuff like that, and they learn Norwegian, culture, legislation, and more, even faster in two years. And after that, they'll be guaranteed a job. Does this knowledge change your decision whether or not to support this bill? I doubt this knowledge will help you very little. If you're saying that the bill is made to raise the rating, I'm saying it's a pretty interesting approach. I am a member of the party since 1992 when I joined the Estonian National Independence Party, and I still carry this spirituality in the Fatherland party. Since I am a so-called party person, I have taken the protection of Estonian language and culture into my heart. June 14th, June Day of Memorial, I wasn't thinking about raising my rating. I have already said that I did not get the consensus I was hoping that the party group would have initiated the draft, but they said that yes, you could take it easy. That's what I'm talking At least I haven't sat here with you comfortably and enjoyed the accumulation of this information for the purpose of developing competence.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U62	Madis Milling.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U63	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I do not understand to a large extent why we agree that one type or some kind of breach of law can be sanctioned with full iron, such as driving a drunken car, but in the event of sanctioning another kind of offence, we are terribly discussing whether or not it can be done. But my question. You indicated that the penalty rates were time-bound, devalued. Inflation has done its job and the problem is that the heads of institutions and companies, to say the least, are mocking these sanctions. Did Mr Tomusk mention how long the current penalty rates have been in place?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U64	I can say that the latest amendments entered into force on 1 July 2014 thanks to the publication in the Official Journal of the State. What were these debates at the time in this Chamber and what were the arguments put forward as to why they did not look forward to who knows it. Well, one fine unit was proposed and it was discussed that it should be optimal. Our society was perhaps more liberal then. Today, society wants some of the challenges that are sensitive to be addressed more quickly and effectively. In these debates, reference may have been made to some long - legalized coercion in another area. But I would remind you that we have already ten times the amount of forced money in the Riigikogu and no one has asked in this Chamber whether we are now going to bankrupt people. If any business model is such that the company's forced money will bankrupt it, then I think that's the company that's supposed to go bankrupt. The company is not viable if it has simply considered that it could break the law. A smaller amount of forced money required for breaking the law does not make the company sustainable. Four years have passed since 2014 and there has been a marked increase in quality of life. We can also compare that there was an extremely large amount of EUR 20 at one time. 20 euros, it was 300 kroons, and 300 kroons was worth a lot. Today, for EUR 20, obviously, there is no more. We should therefore make sure that our legislation goes along with time so that the obligations imposed on the Language Inspectorate and the instruments given to it to comply with them are effective and effective. As the spokesperson for the initiators of the bill, I believe that we should hand this pole to Mr Ilmar Tomusk, so that he can cross the five-metre-high bar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U65	Toomas Jürgenstein.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U66	Good President! Good waitress! The subject is certainly important and I am pleased that Ilmar Tomusk's name has just been heard. I want to refer to him, too. First of all, a small remark. Heidy Purga has left the hall, but the minutes of the committee's sitting say that he also asked a question there. The waitress said she didn't ask. Now it's different. I had the impression from the report that Ilmar Tomusk was in agreement with this draft, but the minutes of the hearing say that Ilmar Tomusk expressed the view that the maximum amount of forced money for a natural person could remain the same as in the language law: EUR 640. Is that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U67	Thank you! It was perhaps in the round of questions and answers, where, somehow surprisingly, you, good Thomas, did not ask any questions and did not come from Jaanus Marrand. However, you have proposed to postpone the decision. That's what I read in the record. You can write anything on paper, paper usually suffers from everything. We remember these things differently. In my opinion, Heidy Purga's question was addressed to Ilmar Tomusk, but perhaps to me, and Laine Randjärv's question might have been addressed to Tomusk rather than to me. However, the question was still how to punish a natural person and how to punish a legal person. I simply say that Tomusk gave an example of where the country's enforcement is effective. They also take into account people's income, even the EUR 40 penalty can be effective. No one even said in 2014 that this rate was screaming and raging injustice. I think the Language Inspectorate is of good will. Once again, the Language Inspectorate is not a repressive body that needs to fill the Treasury. His aim is to motivate people to learn Estonian effectively. I therefore think that this amendment could be made now, but the decision of the Committee on Culture unfortunately means that the issue is not topical or is not recommended to be dealt with. This puts our ministers in an extremely difficult and difficult position. They have to eat their words, because we all see that there is a mass violation. There are quite a number of companies in Tallinn where you cannot get services without speaking English. And so it is not only in Tallinn, so it is also in many other small Estonian cities in hotels and other places. And we think everything's fine. The Committee on Culture doesn't even bother to process the draft. They listened to me, but they decided to send the bill. Now we have a beautiful proverb: 'Where you can see the error, there's a fire and a paddle. " It seems to me that this is what the Committee on Culture has been based on. If they wanted to help, they gave it a chance. The Commission could have done this, but the coalition voted it down unanimously. Thus, this is not my arbitrary interpretation, but this is the situation described by the Director-General of the Language Inspectorate in either Isamaa or the Social Democrats or the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U68	Viktor Vassilyev.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U69	Thank you. Good Tarmo! The Estonian Constitution commands, yes, to protect the Estonian language and culture, but who cares to read beyond the preamble, it finds a number of concessions. In predominantly second-language areas, institutions are also allowed to communicate in another language, and even internal affairs of state and local government institutions can go into another language. Many coercive claims stumble over these provisions. But my question comes from the paradox that a person who does not speak Estonian cannot rhyme the Estonian language. However, people with Estonian native language rhymes, rapes, insults the Estonian language. Many people have every third word dirty, they don't know how to put comics, even official documents full of mistakes. Couldn't the Language Inspectorate re-orientate a little, and somehow repressed not only the unhappy people who do not speak the state language, but also the real scumbags of the Estonian language?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U70	Thank you! If, as a member of the Riigikogu, you see such an appalling crime as rape, you should report it to the authorities. However, as far as rhyming is concerned, I note that we have not only a constitution, but also a KOKS, a law on the organisation of local government. And there are also requirements for parish leaders. I've been making inquiries to quite a few councils since this spring. Surprisingly, the day before yesterday, I was called from Jõhvi and said, "Kruusimäe, you are simple. You just can't get an answer from there. You have asked for the third time whether the Chairman of the Council has graduated from an Estonian-language school. " We see that such disregard is happening everywhere and that we are looking for ways to do something about it. But it's nice that you, good Viktor, were referring to the rape of the tongue, the ripping of the tongue. I will give an example of the meeting of the Economic Commission on Monday, where the Ministry of Education and Research presented to us a document in which the word 'aggregating' was used to present the position of the Government of the Republic. We asked why. He said that the subject was linked to the digitalisation of Europe and that this document was read by the IT team. At their request, the word "agile" was put into it. On this point, I dare say that we should write the PGS, or basic school and upper secondary school law, in such a way that one in four words is 'like', because it is probably what schoolchildren want to read. Here's the moment: slang comes into our law, every interest group can say what they want. 'Joo-yo, Yolo, it's cool! ' I think we should look at those rhymes who bring in our official documents, say, non-beautiful Estonian language and slang. We should already have a beautiful Estonian language in the legislation. I remember, once, we were debating here with a good colleague, Stalnukhin, the term 'unknown reputation'. We have come to realize that when it comes to 'unblemished renoiter', we all understand it the same way, but if we prefer 'unblemished reputation', then this integrity should be defined in some way. I'm sorry! Dirty and rotten from the guts of the soul, I enter the life of the lush, the offspring of the working family. My Estonian was 3. I have repeatedly said in this Chamber that absolutely everyone knows how to write Estonian better than I do. Yet I am here before you, not you in front of us, to give more modern instruments to the Language Inspectorate.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U71	Please, Eev Paasmäe!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U72	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good waitress! I believe that everyone who we are in this Chamber, and people outside this hall, loves the Estonian language, respects it and wants it to develop. And as we know, those whose native language is not Estonian have learned it and I believe they will continue to learn it. A few moments ago, there was an interesting expression, and it reminded me of another expression: "Whoever beats loves it. It seems to me that with these tougher sanctions, we are not creating love but other emotions. My question is: are we really motivating people to learn a better language with such harsh sanctions? And did you consider other alternative means?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U73	Thank you! As a member of the Women's Association of the Riigikogu, I cannot condemn the idea that if he beats, he will. I had to say it, or the women will throw me out of there. Right now, I feel pretty comfortable out there like an old lady said I'm a legal rennet in the henhouse. It was just a figurative example. That's what the old lady said, and I think an old lady who's lived her life quite politely can make that kind of assessment. Or maybe I'm some kind of knight or whatever they say. I have thick skin, and if it doesn't work, I'm gonna wear a leather jacket. We can guess what's the motivation. Of course, it would be a higher salary. If, for example, they say that your salary would be 3,000 euros higher, a person will find a way and learn the language. However, if your salary does not go along with improving your language skills, it does not motivate you to learn. To some extent, the focus of me and the other initiators of the draft is that companies that offer jobs to people contribute to language learning and realise that it is better to help these people learn the language of the state than to simply sneak away from this need. I think this is a problem right now. As has already been pointed out several times: you can say that we are in good faith, you can say that it is an election propaganda or whatever, but I assure you that when we talked to the Director-General of the Language Inspectorate, we really found that the maximum amount of coercive money is in the way of time. I'm not talking about fines right now. The fine in itself is perhaps exactly what you referred to. In the event of a forced payment, a precept is made. Something has to be done for a certain period of time. When it's done, you don't have to pay the penalty. That's how it works. I think it's a soft measure, and I think a lot of my thinkers are saying that Kruusimäe, you've turned into a soft spot. Where's your power gone? But I am out on the result, despite the fact that I already know what the result of the vote will be. Although the Committee on Culture has decided in all its competence and with all its competence that this bill must be sent to the trash, there is no problem, I am still whimsically and politely ahead of you and enjoy this moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U74	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U75	Good manager! Good waitress! The President of the Riigikogu, Eiki Nestor, recently sent an evil letter to Prime Minister Ratas and asked what kind of crap that the government recently did not want to say what he thought about the drafts. We're talking about two drafts, both initiated by the Fatherland ambassadors. One is the draft amendment to the Public Transport Act and the other is today's. Two ministers from the Centre Party said to throw it in the trash bin, and two of them said not to throw it. Here too, we have 1: 1. Smells like there's a second frontal collision between the Fatherland and the Centre Party where a socialist speaker tries to be an arbiter. Do you think it's okay that the government doesn't want to take a stand and just that every minister says what he thinks? Is that normal?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U76	Thank you! I think it is very normal that the President of the Riigikogu made such a letter. Otherwise, we will only hear the opinions of the ministries. We've been chosen here on the basis of different world views. We have had different promises to voters about what we are doing. On this draft, we requested the opinion of the Ministry of Education and Research and the Ministry of Justice. The Ministry of Justice proposed that, if general regulation is desired, the special regulation should be repealed. I said then that the Committee on Culture could simply take this responsibility away from the Language Inspectorate and let the police deal with it. But perhaps another party that curates this area in the head of the Ministry of Education and Research will find very many reasons why it cannot be done. It can be said that this bill cannot be supported because there are long queues for studying the national language, that medium-sized companies can go bankrupt and that Estonian-language houses come. That is why the representative of the Fatherland did not support the draft in the Committee on Culture. If the procedure for this draft went on, the co-rapporteur would politely tell you when amendments need to be tabled, and we could move on to a debate on whether we are separating legal persons from natural persons, for example, ten or seven times, whether the amount remains the same, etc. The current situation is that there has been a frontal impact. And the frontal collision is not, in my opinion, the problem of the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U77	Valeri Korb.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U78	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Recently, we discussed the issue of the position of the Estonian language in this Chamber and came to the conclusion that the biggest problem is not small fines, but small opportunities to teach people the Estonian language. Today, my favourite city, Kohtla-Järve, has 97 groups in day-care centres and I only emphasise in 43, in 43, it is possible to teach Estonian to children. And it is not that we do not want to teach 97.100% of Estonian, but we do not have teachers, we do not have educators who can handle it. I believe that if the state solves this problem of teaching the Estonian language, the Language Inspectorate may be given the opportunity to fine as strictly as you offer. But right now, you need to reject your bill so you don't make a lot of people nervous. With fear, you will achieve nothing.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U79	Thank you! That's right, you referred to the right thing! There was a big debate here and there was no problem with fines. That's why I'm not defending a bill that aims to raise fines. I'm talking about coercive money, and it's kind of something else. Let me give you a simple example. Imagine that there's a driver in a company you run whose driver's license has expired, but he's still going on. At some point you'll find out there's going to be a checkup. How would you behave? Would you like to say, "Don't go ahead and drive, and when the check comes, make some mist that the woman went to pick a dress for her mother-in-law's anniversary and accidentally put my wallet in her pocket?" Or if you have a company in which a driver without a driving licence should serve a certain area, do you establish yourself or do you go along with it and overlook the violation of the law? Right now, driving without the right to drive is a crime and everyone understands that. If a person in the institution you manage does not possess enough official language and you are sanctioned, but at the same time you are given the opportunity to send a person to a language course, what do you do? If this person says that I am not interested in this institution or in the language school, you must decide whether you will allow him to continue working because you need a person, or whether you will still try to negotiate with him. The coercion, as such, means that the negotiating mechanism In my opinion, the fine leaves no room for negotiation; the person can only challenge the amount of the fine or the whole fine.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U80	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U81	Good manager! Good waitress! I'm going back to my last question and your answer. I asked if there was a frontal collision between the Centre Party and the Fatherland, and you said that there was actually a problem within the Fatherland. Let me get this straight. The frontal impact is inside the Fatherland. Why don't you open up some of that background?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U82	Thank you! That was a great question. By the way, I wanted to start reading quietly how many times 'like' comes, but I have to hand it to you: there was no youth play. I don't think there's a forehead collision, but maybe I'd characterize it so that the right hand doesn't know what the left hand does. We're enjoying the moment that the ambassadors are free to make their own decisions. Let's look at how important the party has been, and I will tell you honestly, in fact, the Estonian language and the position of the Estonian language have been. Sven Sester, for example, wrote on 13 September: "Skilling the Estonian language guarantees equal opportunities in both the cultural space and the labour market. " On September 14, Sven Sester wrote: "The preservation of Estonian language and culture is our most important task. " On July 4, Sven Sester wrote that Russian education in Estonia should be completed, that kindergartens and schools should be 100% Estonian. That's our position. Estonian language and culture have been the main building block of the Fatherland and when such a surprise comes from the Committee on Culture, where my own party partner says that we cannot support this bill because we have Estonian-language houses, queues are long and medium-sized companies that violate the law, can it go bankrupt, is it pluralism, multiplicity of opinions, is it a forehead collision or some kind of world-view contradiction? Or is it rather impossible to distinguish a significant from a irrelevant one? The chairman of the party and everyone else say that Estonian is important and it is important that we can do something. This change would not prevent language learning, nor would it prevent the establishment of Estonian language houses. To no extent would it make the order of language learning longer or shorter, and in no way would it justify an offence. A small company whose business plan is based on offences is also not the right thing. I think we can all do something for the language every day. If we do not comply with the requirements of the language law, we will always see it. Let me give you a simple illustration. We know that there are ugly offences in the Internet: there is exploitation of children, there is the sale of prohibited substances. We would like competent police officers to go to and participate in social media, but the rules state that officials must not participate in social media. Today I have come here with an imaginary proposal for an official to be able to fix offences by participating in social media, but I am told 'no, let the official still act outside the social media'. He may ask a friend how things are and act accordingly. Even better, which I note for the third time, is that we want Ilmar Tomusk to cross the five-metre-high bar, but we refuse to give him the pole he needs. Erki Arrow jumped over. But we're not going to mention that Erki jumped using a pole. But to Ilmar, we'll tell him you can do it, the Language Inspectorate is behind you, and we're all morally supportive. Right now, moral support is not enough. However, as a representative of the initiators of the draft act, I hope that the Committee on Culture will be willing to keep this subject on the agenda. The representatives of the Committee on Culture will be able to consult with their group. But at the same time we can say calmly: it's Thursday, next week it's pumpkin week, we're all celebrating it and we're fine with our tongue. On behalf of the initiators of the draft act, I call on you to support this draft and not to send it back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U83	It'd be a nice code, but there's at least one more question. Karin Tammemägi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U84	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear coworker, Such a fine-tuning question. In one answer, you said you couldn't condemn the thought that whoever beats loves. I can read from your statement that you approve of it in every way and agree with it. You can't argue with that. Right?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U85	Thank you! I didn't see it that way. I've noticed that I have enough charm and human spark to get women, and I don't have to use physical violence. And I'm telling you, good Karin, there are guys out there who can spot amazing women even though the distance between us is pretty long. I see there's already a little spark in the air at Viktor's. But I'm sorry, my heart isn't free. But if a man who physically assaults you claims to do so out of pure love, then you have been deceived, vilely deceived. And as a member of the Women's Association, I say, you can come and weep on the shoulder of the Women's Association and tell us who the villain is who has tricked you so badly.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U86	Heimar Lenk.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U87	The performer, can you go in there and finish now?!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U88	Thank you! I do not see the connection between this issue and today's draft and, in fact, not a direct connection with me as an ambassador. Rather, based on pluralism and how we can interpret all things, I say: good Heimar, I am not a dog, at least not for you, but you say to me, "Place! " I was born in the second year. The gentleman closes the speech when he has thanked the President of the sitting and the good colleagues for their reflection. I wish you good decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U89	Thank you very much. The chairman even thinks further. Toomas Jürgenstein, waitress of the commission, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U90	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, I think we have experienced that Bill 666 really justifies its number. The Commission dealt with this draft at two meetings, on 15 October and 16 October. On 15 October, the Commission was present as a full member, except that Jaanus Marrandi took part as an alternate member of Mr Heljo Pikhof. The initiator's representative Tarmo Kruusimäe, the lawyer of the Legal Department of the Ministry of Education and Research, Liina Hirv, and Andero Adamson, adviser to the Language Department, and Andrus Jürgens, Adviser to the Public Law Service of the Ministry of Justice, and Ilmar Tomusk, Director General of the Language Inspectorate were also present. The previous speaker has already given an overview of many of the questions, and I will touch on them briefly. The bill is not voluminous and Tarmo Kruusimäe first explained its main message: the maximum amount of the penalty is 640 euros. A representative of the Ministry of Education agreed to the subject matter, but in his view it would be important for the draft to distinguish between legal and natural persons. A representative of the Ministry of Justice said that they are not directly opposed to the draft, but they would rather see a solution in order to remove the relevant section from the language law and to implement the maximum amount of coercive money laid down in the Law Enforcement Act, which is EUR 9600. Ilmar Tomusk, Director General of the Language Inspectorate, said that the penalty paid to natural persons would normally be EUR 30 and EUR 50, and he confirmed that for a natural person the penalty rate could remain the same as it is today. This is about legal entities. Heidy Purga asked the initiator about the justification for the maximum amount of coercive money. Tarmo Kruusimäe said that it has sounded a couple of times today from this remote control, that perhaps three times this maximum amount of forced money has been raised ten times and was based on the same principle. Laine Randjärv then asked Ilmar Tomusk about the procedure for paying the penalty for legal persons. Ilmar Tomusk explained that it is usually paid immediately or very quickly, with no problems. Viktoria Ladõnskaya-Kubits said that the Committee on Culture certainly has the will to solve the problem, but the question is how to solve it. Viktoria supports positive integration and confirmed that employers' concerns are that the state does not provide sufficient opportunities for language learning and the order of language courses is long, teachers are not available. Aadu Must asked the Director General of the Language Inspectorate, Ilmar Tomusk, how the work of the Language Inspectorate would change if the draft was adopted as a law. Ilmar Tomusk confirmed that they are looking at each case on a case-by-case basis, and when it comes to a small company, they are not overreacting. He also stated that it would not be very different from his point of view whether the maximum amount of the penalty would be EUR 9600 or EUR 6400, but he would prefer that the section in question remain in the language law. Finally, an opinion was expressed on whether to refer the draft to first reading and propose that it be terminated. Laine Randjärv and Viktoria Ladõnskaja-Kubits expressed the opinion that the adoption of the draft act could have many negative consequences. For example, unprotected small entrepreneurs, for whom the lack of Estonian language courses and their long queues are a problem. Mr Black proposed that Toomas Jürgenstein be appointed rapporteur for the Commission and that the draft be put on the agenda for the plenary session by 25 October, which is now. These proposals were agreed by consensus. Mr Jürgenstein proposed that the decision to close the first reading be postponed. On 16 October, we continued the debate on the same subject. All the members of the Committee on Culture were present. The chairman of the committee proposed that the draft be rejected at first reading. It was supported by five people: Aadu Must, Heljo Pikhof, Toomas Jürgenstein, Toomas Väinaste and Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits. Four opposed: Heidy Purga, Krista Aru, Laine Randjärv and Yoko Alender. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U91	Jevgeni Ossinovski, a question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U92	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Since, unfortunately, I did not receive an answer from the representative of the initiators of the draft, I will ask you. The quality of the draft is, of course, rather embarrassing, but I asked the rapporteur about the practice of other European countries in such situations. It's not like our situation is any different. Many countries have a large number of second-language people and, of course, they also have a national language that they respect and protect. And, of course, they are looking together for ways to improve the knowledge of the national language and also to maintain and strengthen the status of the national language in society. We have now proposed, as an additional measure, that we should be given a bigger malaka. How are these systems built in other countries? Did the Committee on Culture discuss this?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U93	I'll start at the back. The practice of other countries in the Committee on Culture, as I recall, was not at issue. Viktoria's shaking her head, too, so I guess it wasn't. Now, indeed, speaking of this bill, my more general attitude is also skeptical. Why? I would like to quote to you Tarmo Soiret, who, speaking of another question, said two days ago in this Chamber about the remote: 'There must be no illusion that complex things can simply be solved. I can't. ' But as far as the experience of other countries is concerned, I know a little about the experience of England, a little about Germany's own, the main thing is still the same positive approach, positive integration, language courses, support. And at the other end of this scale, there may be intimidation or coercion.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U94	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U95	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, I understood that the Commission agreed that there was a need to sanction the violation of the law and that indeed these current sanctions were inadequate. How, then, did the Commission come up with such a proposal to reject this draft? Was it even voted on?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U96	I was talking about voting on the remote, I think, five minutes ago. However, thank you for your question. This is a very important issue. By the way, we had quite a consensus in the Commission. Quite a consensus! We agreed that there is a problem, I think, we all agree. I think we agreed that the legal and physical person should be looked at separately. I think we agreed to that, too. As far as decision-making is concerned, we all agreed that we do not support the draft as it stands. It seems to me that there was a consensus on this. But we had to decide whether we would go ahead with this draft and propose improvements, for example, by keeping the maximum amount of coercive money in the case of a natural person the same, or by bringing it down, I don't know, even to zero, and raising the penalty money in the case of a legal person. It had to be decided whether we were trying to do something about the existing draft or whether we were choosing another position. I cannot speak for all the Members of the Commission, because I cannot look inside them, but it was as if a bit of a broader view was advocated. I am very grateful to the Fatherland. It was probably September 7th when we discussed the position of the Estonian language, the teaching of the Estonian language. I would also like to draw attention to Ilmar Tomusk, whose name has been heard here today for a dozen times: in the last, 19 October Sirbis, he has an excellent article on the transition to the Estonian language at the glance of language supervision. In short, it seems to me that this 25-year unsolved problem of the transition to the Estonian language in education has begun to move. But this readiness is extremely delicate. And now when the Riigikogu takes the decision at first reading that our message is that instead of a rod, we put a reed stick on the top of the cabinet, as the churchwarden did, it seems better not to give this message to society. If there is a draft, where a natural and legal person is separated, where there is a reason why the maximum amount of forced money is EUR 6400, but not EUR 5 000 or actually 10000, then it seems to me that we can move forward with this debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U97	Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U98	But as I recently learned, you have something in common with the pickets that take place in Tallinn in the middle of the city on Pikk Street. Tell me, please, defender of the Estonian language, why doesn't one word in Estonian have on these banners and banners, all the stuff they take with them? Don't you think you should be punished for not using Estonian in the middle of Tallinn?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U99	Thank you very much for the waitress. No further questions. I will open negotiations for representatives of the political groups. Mikhail Stalnukhin on behalf of the Estonian Centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U100	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, There's a long word I can't say not to count it off: hexacosioihexekontahexaphobia. It's all one word. That's the fear of the three coats. And I think there really is a reason for that. This bill got such an interesting number. But that's it. In fact, I would like to talk about the fact that today we are making a certain amount of history here. There are many interesting fines in the world. In Egypt, for example, you can get a $1,000 fine for feeding fish in the sea. Italy is softer in this sense: only EUR 600 can be fined for feeding pigeons. Many countries have such fines. That's weird! In France, for example, you can't call a pig Napoleon. You can't go to Singapore on the street with a Bible in your armpit. If it were to be a law, that three-six bill, we'd definitely be on that list. For the sake of the principle that a natural person can be ordered to pay EUR 6400. When we're talking about a teacher, next year, let's try to figure it out! The salary of the teacher is 1250 euros. The average wage calculated is 1500 euros. And the same teacher gets a fine of EUR 6400! As a teacher said to me, "Hey, put a prison sentence in there! No one can pay that fine. ' All these stories, all this natural person, a non-physical person, it's for the poor. People did what they wanted. On this draft, I am extremely ashamed that it was signed by two of my political parties. They signed it. They can't explain it to themselves. I understand there's a field fight going on before the elections: here you try to win the Russians' votes, there you get the right-wing Estonians' votes. Every sound is good if it leads to success. But is this hall worth listening to a debate like the one that sounded here today? One quite wise person, in my opinion, formulated the matter so that although each substance has three aggregate states, i.e. solid, liquid and gaseous, under certain conditions the same substance can be in three aggregate states at the same time. Anyone who doesn't believe it could find out what's going on in the anti-Semite brain when he discusses some of the secrets of the massons. It seems to me that this is exactly the same picture if we were to look at what's going on in the brain for those people who are giving us such subjects to discuss here. With all due respect, that's right. I don't think we need any more of these drafts. I do not think that distinguishing a natural person from a legal person would give more. Much is being done for the Estonian language in recent times. But drafts like this one are a disgrace. And it is right that this decision is to be voted on. The Centre Party Group wants the draft to be rejected and asks that the other people in the Chamber also think about and do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U101	On behalf of the Madis Milling Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U102	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I say that I am not speaking on behalf of the group because we did not reach a common position. Listening to the previous speaker, I might have had a tear in my eye, but I didn't. As a director, I don't think so. Although very beautiful and fluent, very imaginary speech, but there was no mention of it. Why is it that when we talk about some violations of law, we can do it emotionlessly? Today, however, there were several claims that smaller companies would go bankrupt when this law was implemented. But why aren't we talking, for example, about traffic penalties, about a low-income driver going bankrupt when we're fined him? We do not think that if a driver has a small income, it gives him a greater moral right to break the law. I agree, this subject is emotional. I agree that this bill, in the form that it was issued, is crude. Today there have been claims here, rather than claims, but information that both members of the Riigikogu and the Head of the Language Inspectorate and the representatives of the Ministry stated in the committee: (a) sanctions have been lost in time, inflation has been wiped out, and (b) there are a number of private companies and institutions that I repeat systematically, systematically! just ignore the precepts they've been given. The current cap on coercive money is, in their eyes, a ridiculous small amount that has already been included in operational expenditure. It is immediately paid without hesitation, which shows that it is small. There's a problem. Then why aren't we dealing with the problem? Why aren't we discussing this further? Why aren't we discussing this sum or the other one? Why are we not discussing further whether a natural person and an entrepreneur should be dealt with separately in the law? Today, we're just gonna kill the subject in the bud and it's not going any further, even though everyone has admitted that there is a problem. Does not dealing with the problem really make the problem go away? It's nice and comfortable to kill, and now we're kind of out of trouble. We're not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U103	Mr Milling, representatives of the political groups will take the floor at first reading. The governing board of the Riigikogu does not ask the delegates to authorise them. So let us consider that this was the position of the Reform Party Group at the moment. The introductory words that you will not make a speech on behalf of the Group will cost nothing. What the group is doing to you, I don't know. Jaanus Marrand, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U104	I have a procedural remark. Mr President, you did not comply with the Rules of Procedure, because you did not ask whether the speaker would speak on behalf of the group. There are no representatives of the Reform Party Group in the hall, and this is probably their conscious choice. The speaker said that he did not represent the group, yet he was able to give his speech. This is very much in conflict with yesterday's precedents in this room. These were also related to the Reform Party. Unfortunately, this is an incorrect chairing of the sitting for two days in a row.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U105	If the Riigikogu thinks we should ask everyone for authorization, then we can do so. Sounds kind of ugly to me. Olga Ivanova has something to say.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U106	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I also recognise that, unfortunately, non-attached ambassadors are not entitled to speak now. I'd love to. So, indeed, the previous speech was not correct. And that's also unfair, for example, to the windows.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U107	The non-attached Members themselves know that they are not part of the group. Henn Põllamaas, please! On behalf of the EKRE Group, I hope.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U108	On behalf of the EKRE Group, exactly. I am deeply surprised by the various objections and attempts to make this whole issue absurd, to bring here some Egyptian goldfish, and I don't know what ridiculous comparisons yet. I would understand if we were to talk about all this in 1997 or 1998, when it was a few years after we regained our independence. But it's been 27 years! A whole new generation has been born in Estonia. Followers have also lived here for decades for people who have long migrated to Estonia, and these people themselves, the parents of this new generation. To talk about the fact that they do not speak Estonian, because it is too difficult, it is impossible to learn, and that it is not to be sanctioned, and I am sorry, it humiliates the same people. This shows that you consider them retarded, people who cannot learn Estonian. I think they're capable of that, they're perfectly normal people. If they want to, they can. After all, we see this ability every day when our people have left abroad. My colleague, a very good friend who did not speak a word of Estonian, went to work in Germany and in three months he had German in his mouth. The question, therefore, is not that the Estonian language is difficult, that it is impossible to learn it, that there are no courses. It just shows you don't want to. Estonia has spent 200 million euros on integration programmes. It's been spent on language courses, I can't tell you how much money, but it's a hell of a lot of money. But what is the result? Practically close to zero. The 2001 census showed that the proficiency in Estonian is only 38% among people in other languages. It took ten years, and in 2011 it had risen to 44%. It's an almost nonexistent rise. At this rate, Estonia will become an Estonian-speaking country in a hundred years' time. But if we consider that we actually have thousands of people coming from Slavic countries every year, then we will never come to an Estonian language in Estonia. In order for this to happen, action must be taken. In 2017, the door to migrant workers was opened more widely and after that there has been an increase in complaints not only about Russian, so that there is no service in Estonian. In very many places, we have started to receive only English-language service, and not at all in proper English. In 2014, the Language Inspectorate checked doctors, nurses and care workers, 725 of them. How many of them didn't speak Estonian? All 519! 519 out of 725! This shows that the situation is completely catastrophic, that the situation is out of control and that something needs to be done. There is talk of a positive approach. We have been approaching positively for 27 years, we have had a school network in Russian. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U109	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U110	In no other European country, even in America, you will find no country to provide foreign language education. That's absurd. I understand that when we regained our independence, there was a situation as it was, but now all these problems should have been forgotten long ago. As low as the percentage of national language skills in Estonia does not exist in any European country, probably not in any other country in the world. Even in Latvia, the percentage of Latvian proficiency is significantly higher than the percentage of Estonian proficiency in Estonia. So to come and say that we are now punishing these people on the contrary, we are giving them the motivation to start learning Estonian at last, to start using Estonian. This is not about anything other than simply wanting, attitudes towards Estonian, Estonian nationality, Estonian culture and, ultimately, extending it, loyalty to the Republic of Estonia, where the Constitution states that Estonian is the official language. Finally, I would like to read to you the words of the President of the United States, Theodore Roosevelt, in 1919: 'We only have room for one flag, the American flag. [---] We only have room for one language here and it is English. [---] And we have room for only one loyalty, and that is loyalty to the American people. ' Exactly the same must apply in the Republic of Estonia. We can only have one flag, blue black and white, one official language, Estonian language, and loyalty only to the Republic of Estonia as a nation state. That's all there is to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U111	On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of Toomas Jürgenstein, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U112	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, I am mainly talking about something that I mentioned a few minutes ago. It is possible to draw up a very powerful contrast: coercive and good. The churchwarden and teacher Laur with the "Spring" reed stick will soon be remembered. However, it is precisely such a contrast that must necessarily be avoided on this subject, in order to do so, the red light must always be shown. The big picture says that the focus of the language theme is the transition to the Estonian-language school, the teaching of Estonian. It's a delicate process, I don't think Taavi Kõivas will mind if I use his term 'precision'. You can't approach Malga, it's a very delicate subject. Ilmar Tomusk's name has been mentioned from this remote unit on several occasions today. I referred to his article that appeared in Sirbis last Friday. He speaks there that Ida-Virumaa and Tallinn have a total of 1800 educational staff in general education schools and kindergartens whose language level does not meet the requirements. They could be subject to forced money, but they are the people who need to teach their children not only the Estonian language but also the Estonian mind. I was the one who proposed that the vote be postponed one day later at the end of the committee session. The reason was simple: I wanted to talk to a couple of people who have been active in Ida-Virumaa for a few decades and have tried to teach Estonian. They assured me that if there was a ceiling of EUR 6400 in the law, as my acquaintance said, these teachers would go to the loop. The fact that sometime in the course of the proceedings, perhaps a lower penalty payment, costs quite little at first. The message's already gone out. I repeat here my point that we have long considered expanding education in Estonian, an Estonian-language school. The Sox have used the expression'school of learning together'. In my opinion, it is quite pathetic when the first step is to have a bouquet of bouquets of EUR 640 replaced by a bouquet of reed, i.e. EUR 6400. And once again, I fully understand that this is a very meaningful position if we are in favour of going forward with this draft procedure, making it better. Yeah, that's how you think. I didn't take it for nothing to think about one day, because that's a very good point of view. However, looking at the broader plan, it seems to me that if an increase in the cap on forced money is necessary, a new draft must be drawn up, which will build more and break less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U113	On behalf of the Helir-Valdor Seeder Group of the Fatherland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U114	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that this draft of the representatives of several political parties is in this debate today. I think that the content and tone of this debate reflects the willingness of the members of the Riigikogu and the political parties and the Estonian political elite at all to deal with this topic very well. Today's questions also opened up the essence of this issue very well, in my opinion. So this bill has, at least in part, served its purpose, even if we do not continue to deal with it in the Riigikogu. I am deeply convinced that it is not possible to develop Estonian culture without developing the Estonian language. And I am very pleased that, according to a representative of the Commission, there was a consensus in the Committee on Culture that there was a problem, but that natural and legal persons could be treated separately and differently and that the draft does not solve the problem in the proposed form. At the same time, I am extremely sorry that I am not prepared to proceed with the bill in order to make it better. I don't see any problems with the quality of this bill. In an analogous form, we have received dozens of drafts. The draft can be limited to one line if we raise some amount or support and if its content is not wider. And if it is necessary to supplement the explanatory statement or make changes in the procedure of the draft, it is possible to do so with a good will. However, I would like to highlight a few things during this whole debate. First of all, it seems to me that this debate is stuck in the past. There was a forehead collision between different parties or parties. It seems to me, however, that the way of thinking in the debate, especially in the left-hand part of the hall, reflects the forehead collision between Estonian and Russian. But this, my dear friends, is a lockdown in history. It's a history lockdown, and it came out of the question very clearly. I'll give you a couple or three examples. I recently visited a catering place in Viljandi and it was not possible to receive either Estonian or Russian service. The service was provided by service providers in English, which had a very weak English language. Go to hotels in Tallinn! I recently visited a large hotel in Tallinn. There was also no question of serving either in Estonian or Russian. These are service providers who try to speak English. I recently went to a sports competition where three people were responsible for catering at the stadium. It was possible to buy chips and stuff in one of the booths. And none of these three spoke Estonian or Russian. It is not a question of the linguistic and other contrast between Estonian and Russian communities, which are still felt floating in this Chamber on these issues. We have entered a completely new phase, and in this context it is very important to deal with the use of Estonian and the development of the Estonian language in general. The problem must be seen in the light of the historical problems and dogmas that we still have to worry about, but it must also be seen as free of them, based on the reality in the current open world. In this context, this draft is, in my opinion, very justified and justified in terms of the problem being raised and its content. Now, what do we do now? I very much hope that we will have the courage and the courage to move forward with this bill. If there is not enough, this issue can be raised again and moved forward. But one more point. We're talking about coercive money, not fines. I'd like to open up what's inside that it's a coercion. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U115	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U116	Because the words 'fine' and 'punishment' sounded in the questions, the reproach of punishment. Most of the speakers were always talking about fines. It is a coercion, and a coercion is not a fine. Forced money is a very clearly motivating measure. If the injunction, the recommendation has not been complied with, an additional period of time shall be granted by imposing the penalty payment. If the law has not been complied with within the prescribed time limit, the penalty payment shall be applied. It's not a fine, it's not in any criminal records. This is one way to motivate employers to comply with the law in Estonia. Finally. What makes me sad is the attitude and attitude of the Committee on Culture. After all, he began with this sentence: 'Construction 666 justifies his number. ' The representative of the Committee on Culture comes after the debate and says that draft 666 justifies his number! I don't know, maybe it was an assessment of the draft, maybe it was an assessment of the problem, maybe it was an assessment of the Estonian language, maybe it was an assessment of the initiators of the draft, but we all understand what the content of such a reply was. I think that, by the representative of the Committee on Culture, it was neither reasonable nor respectful of this hall, the Estonian language nor the subject under discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U117	Andres Herkel on behalf of the Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U118	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Riigikogu! The treatment of this draft has gone beyond the limits of this laconical draft, and the language issue is always worth it. I recall our earlier discussions. I think in March we had a debate on a key national issue on language. The protection and preservation of one cultural language, especially in the case of a small nation, is a constant problem and requires a great deal of action. If we go to a wider area, it is more important than speaking about fines that we maintain our cultural language of higher education in our native language, the different areas of the scientific language. As far as the specific draft is concerned, one must certainly be critical in the sense that fines or coercion cannot sustain the language. At the same time, of course, the Language Inspectorate must have its own instruments. And the work that Ilmar Tomusk has been doing for years has ultimately been very grateful. I have some doubts as to whether the increase in the cap on forced money must be tenfold. I also pointed out in my question that this could be an oversupply. However, this is certainly an important issue and the Free Party Group supports the maintenance and continuation of the draft, perhaps at a less emotional level, in order to find better solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-25_U119	I'm closing the negotiations. Dear Riigikogu, the Committee on Culture has told us that their proposal is to reject it at first reading. This proposal needs to be voted on. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting against the draft proposal of the Committee on Culture 666 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 32 members of the Riigikogu are in favour of the proposal, against 16. The proposal was supported. Draft 666 has been rejected at first reading. Power! See you! Closure of the sitting at 12.14 p.m.
