ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! A good companion, a restorer of Estonian independence and the creator of a new life, Andres Ammas, has left us. We express our condolences to his family and his loved ones. Let's think about him and thank him. [[The silence of grief.]] But life goes on. Question Time. Incoming check, please! There are 65 members of the Riigikogu. The Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Siim Kiisler, Minister of the Environment, and Andres Anvelt, Minister of the Interior will participate in Question Time. At this point, four members of the Riigikogu have announced their wish to ask the question. I will give you two additional questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U2	The first questioner is Martin Helme and the answerer is Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U3	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Let me also start by expressing my condolences to the free party on the loss of a friend and colleague. But let's go to the issues of the day. Prime Minister! Perhaps you are familiar with the incident that happened on the evening of 25 March in Tallinn Vabaduse Square, where the company of Russians desecrated the candle composition set for the anniversary of the March deportation and clearly demonstrated contempt and hostility towards the Estonian Day of Dream. You have repeatedly said that all the people in Estonia are our people. I didn't feel like they were our people. Do you see that there are people in Estonia who have a serious problem with loyalty to the Estonian state and hostility to the Estonian nation, or do you not see it?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U4	Dear Andres' loved ones, deep-deep sympathy! Chairman of the Riigikogu and members of the Riigikogu! Good questioner, thank you for that question. I still think that the people who live in Estonia are our people. I think that no one has the right to loot candles, wreaths or flowers on a day as painful as it is for our people to be the anniversary of the March deportation, to carry out some sort of act of vandalism, to pillage people, or to desecrate flowers, or in any way desecrate someone's memory. There's no excuse for that. I am familiar with the information you described, but it certainly does not make me say that the young people who speak one, another or third language who live in this country are not our people. I think that all of this actually shows the importance of a strong society, a united society that understands the different sides and members of the society and its coherence. I think we must continue to work on this in the difficult moments you described. Of course, there is no justification for vandalism. I think that our goal must be a society in which we do not build walls, but we want to build and build bridges.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U5	Martin Helme, first additional question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U6	Thank you, Prime Minister. I honestly have to admit I didn't actually understand what you were talking about. I don't think it's strong if we close our eyes to our problems. In my opinion, the behaviour that we saw there does not show the coherence of Estonian society, but, on the contrary, it is a glimpse of the deep division of Estonian society. I hear some stories in Estonia that are complete nonsense for me about how we have Russian Estonians here and I do not know what languages Estonians are yet. I never understood that. I think there are Estonians, Russians, Ukrainians and Syrians, all of them have their own nationality. I am very concerned that Russian citizens in Estonia will vote in favour of Putin with far greater popularity than the Russians in Russia. I would ask this question: if you think it is vandalism, not national hatred, will the police deal with this vandalism? Is he going to work as hard as Vao's search for the guilty?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U7	I trust the Estonian police. The police, of course, always deal with all violations as best they can. I really do not think that opposition can be built on the surface of such individual examples. I'm sorry, but Estonian society isn't that rich. I don't know where or how far your mind goes. Do we have to say that there are some people in this Chamber who do not fit in, and there are some people who do? I think this is the wrong way. Sincerely, wrong way. I did not just say that more coherence and bridges must be sought in society. When you read from my answer that this depraved act that was there builds community unity and bridges, you either didn't want to understand or didn't understand. I certainly didn't say that. I would also like to say this, speaking of a strong and protected Estonian society, that if we take out the last study commissioned by the Ministry of Defence from Turku Studies AS, this shows that if, for example, the opinions of people speaking in Estonian and other languages are compared, the difference between the Defence Forces, the Defence League, and the credibility of the European Union has decreased. Even with NATO, there is a positive trend. I think it's a good thing that both language groups see them as important and trust them.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U8	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U9	President-in-Office of the Council. Mr. Prime Minister! Your answers are clearly unsatisfactory and manipulative to some kind of inquiry, but in fact you tell us very clearly that you are sweeping the problem under the carpet, you do not want to see it. You do not want to see two-thirds of the Russians living here view NATO as a hostile organization and Putin as their president. Instead, you tell us a beautiful fairy tale as we were told before the Bronze Night of 2007 about how our integration works and everyone is our people. Unfortunately, not everyone is our people. It is dangerous for the country, however, if the problem is not addressed and ignored at Prime Minister level. The Minister of the Interior is sitting next to you. Could we, through you, ask him if the police are investigating this particular incident? There was no police response to the Moon Explorer. What is your answer to my questions about whether or not you're wiping the problem under the carpet?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U10	I'd still like to ask a question in one minute and not make speeches.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U11	Thank you. No, the Prime Minister cannot satisfy your request today because you work under the law of the Riigikogu's Rules of Procedure and I have no right to pass this microphone on to anyone from here, point one. Point two, I've been watching your party say the last few days. I don't know if it's borne from the great increase in popularity both for you and for the Reform Party or something else. Such going to extremes in your questions shows that certain places must be cut out of Estonia, then EKRE would be pleased. I think the EKRE voter wouldn't be happy. Sincerely, I think so. After all, we have local governments with a higher proportion of people whose home language is Russian. So do we have to tell them you can't live in this country anymore, get out of here? Are we going to cut these municipalities out of Estonia somehow? I think on the contrary: yes, we have to go on with the construction of bridges. By the President of the people living in the Republic of Estonia, he is currently in office in Kadriorg, Kersti Kaljulaid. This is important and I think it must be our joint effort. With the question or reply you have made, I think you are undermining Estonia's base, you are breaking Estonia's sense of security. We are very proud that we are active members of both NATO and the European Union, but the desire for protection and the defence capability begins at home.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U12	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U13	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Prime Minister! I, too, will convey a statement of deep sympathy to the members of the Free Party for leaving our colleague. But by going to the question, I'm afraid, Prime Minister, you've unfortunately gotten all mixed up like a Kört-Pärt shirt. In my opinion, it is extremely extreme that one of the European Union's government parties has a direct cooperation agreement with the United Russia. Members of this party, especially one of the members of the Euro Parliament, have repeatedly made speeches that undermine Estonia's security and Estonia's cooperation with NATO allied states, for example. Therefore, I really sincerely hope that you will not make any comments at our address that are not competent. However, on the subject of the same act of vandalism, I ask whether he is also seeing a huge deficit in the fact that on the anniversary of the deportation of all our people on a very important day, we did not have enough resources outside in the form of police to ensure public security and order. Police resources have been too limited, and this is one of the major challenges for the security of our society. What is your opinion on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U14	Thank you. I think it's a good thing you know everything. I can't say anything but this long monologue: unmistakable. But that's what a member of the Riigikogu should be. Once again, what I said in answer to the first question is that the police are working on it. I'm sticking to what I'm saying. It will certainly be the wrong thing to do, not overlook it or wipe it under the carpet, as your party chairman said, or off the table. With regard to this protocol, which you mentioned, of course, you have the right to ask this question, I have already said here before you, but I will say again: for me, this protocol does not work, has never worked, and it does not exist.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U15	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U16	The next question to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas will be asked by Taavi Rõivas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U17	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to express my condolences to all my friends from the Free Party and to those close to Andres. Good Prime Minister, it is very difficult to hold this debate with you today, but my question is about an important area and my concern is serious. This concerns people's long-term security, or pensions, and is motivated by the fact that one of the coalition parties has proposed that the second pillar of the pension be abolished through the mouth of Helir-Valdor Seeder. He has gone so far as to call the pension reform that Mart Laar's government carried out in its time, the biggest financial failure in Estonia. My question is simple: have you agreed on such a position in the government, or is it the solo of one of the coalition partners, and you do not support it?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U18	Thank you. It's not a deal.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U19	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U20	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Prime Minister! I've asked you many times, but still. If ministers receive money well on payday, some working pensioners will have to pay more taxes than members of the government. Have you thought about my question and are you prepared to change this unfair tax system so that a working pensioner who earns almost twice as much from you would pay taxes as you do?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U21	Thank you. Good questioner! I think the voice of reason that comes from the Reform Party in your form gives hope. This gives hope in the sense that there are people in your party who do not want to make people's livelihoods depend on their income. What parallel do I bring? I read the opinion of the soon-to-be president of your party on the reform of the Health Insurance Fund. It says that access to medical care will depend on the amount of resources available in a person's wallet. I don't think that's right. And this aspect of solidarity, to which you refer, certainly bears my point. So I wish you strength inside the party. Now about pensions. I think you are implying that pensions are small in Estonia. If, for example, we compare the relative poverty rate with the average old-age pension, unfortunately, the average pension is lower. I think this is the very right debate that you are holding right now, before the elections to the XIV Riigikogu next year, about how political parties intend to solve this problem. Yes, I have really said that the indexation of pensions, which now took place three days ago, that is, on 1 April, and that 7.6% is not enough. In fact, an emergency pension increase is needed. This is one of the positions we are taking in the next election. So, in any case, the pension increase is in focus.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U22	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U23	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, the idea of Kaja Kallas is certainly not what the Prime Minister mentioned. While I was a former Minister for Health, I realized that it was rather his desire to bring extra money to health care at the expense of private money and that it could improve accessibility for everyone, regardless of the income of people. But I'm coming back to retirement. I am grateful for the answer that you have not agreed on this, which means for me that in the next year, which has remained until the elections, this is not expected to turn back. I ask for your position as the leader of one of Estonia's largest political parties. Do you think that the pension reform, in particular the creation of the second and third pillars, is a major failure, or do you see that the second and third pillars could have a role to play in the future? I ask this because it concerns the confidence of a very large number of people.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U24	Thank you. We will discuss the new draft pension reform in the coming days, which will also come to this Riigikogu. In any case, I think that pensions should generally be fairer in the Estonian state. In any case, retirement should be more flexible and, of course, the ability of the state to pay the pension must be sustainable. You asked about the second and third pillars. I believe that the new reform will open up the opportunity for people to make contributions to the second pillar again in 1970-1982. I do not think that the promise that the country has made can be turned over very lightly. In my opinion, confidence must be passed on to people, including those who really earn more and want to contribute. For them, there is a third pillar. I think we need to keep working on these things.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U25	Taavi Kõivas, please have another supplementary question!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U26	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! I am sorry, I am also a human being born in 1970-1982, but I really did not understand what the Prime Minister was trying to say at the moment. My question was very simple: in your opinion, should the second pillar of pension continue in the future, or is it, as Mr Seeder said, your coalition partner, that this is the biggest financial failure in Estonia? Yesterday, in a TV show, he said that hundreds of millions of euros a year would burn there. According to my understanding, even several billion people's savings have been collected there, and this is important for our people. I support the continuation of this second pillar, but I ask for your position as the leader of one of the largest Estonian parties on this subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U27	Thank you. It is difficult to answer when a question is asked in such a conditional way of speaking, so that it should. The answer is yes, it must.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U28	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U29	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! You have now made promises to raise your pension before the elections. I would, of course, advise you to review your previous election programme and the promises you made there to the pensioners. Then you can make sure that you have not fulfilled your promises at the time, even though you have been a government leader for a year and a half now. We also know that we have calculated that about 360 million would cost an increase of EUR 100 in pensions. Well, that's a lot of work, of course. It's a notional calculation. At the same time, working pensioners now often pay more taxes than just working people. My question is this: can we not start with the most accessible and easier way to pay for pensioners, namely the exemption from income tax on a long-lived pension?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U30	Thank you. I think that any discussion on this subject is welcome. I disagree, however, with your assessment of the Centre Party at all. The position of the Centre Party has always been that the economic inequality we now have, say, among the working age, would not be passed on to retirement age. That is why we say that the first pension pillar depends on the years worked. This is why I think, as I replied to Taavi's garment, that the third pillar must remain free for those who earn more and wish and are able to pay more. I think that the basic principles of the second pillar must not be changed; they must be continued.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U31	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U32	The question for Home Secretary Andres Anvelt is Henn Põlluaas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U33	Thank you. In 2016, more than 7000 new foreign-origin persons, mainly from Russia, Ukraine and Belarus, were registered in Estonia last year even more. It is comparable to immigration during the occupation, which aimed at the Russification and destruction of the Estonian people. Researchers in the Migration Policy Working Group of the Ministry of Home Affairs highlighted the problems of migrant workers • lack of mobility and crime, low-cost labour economy, wage cuts, unemployment and the growth of the shadow economy, continued emigration, and stressed that quotas should not be renounced. The problems, however, would be solved by promoting birth rate and return migration, by greater and better implementation of their own people and by a reduction in the need for technology development. Why is all your efforts aimed instead at increasing immigration?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U34	First of all, I would like to express my deepest condolences to those close to Andres Ammas, especially his wife, Anneli Ammas. Hats off in front of Andres' actions for the Estonian state! But now to your question. I am in a complete misunderstanding as to whether you live in another world, do not read official documents or the decisions of the cabinet, which, by the way, have actually become even tougher than that of the same working group dealing with immigration limits. The points you have spoken about have not come about by themselves or have come out of the sky, but the opinions of specialists and the outcome of disputes. The government has also taken these opinions as a basis for its decision. The immigration limit does not increase. At the same time, we understand that certain measures are needed in the Estonian labour market. One of these is the extension of project-based or temporary work from nine months to a year. The second is the withdrawal of high-paid engineers, specialists who receive at least two Estonian average salaries from the quota. These groups are relatively small compared to our own people. In this I fully agree with you that Estonia's own workforce must be most involved and only then can we talk about the introduction and use of migrant labour.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U35	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U36	Thank you. As a minister, I think you should be ashamed to lie literally because the quota has essentially lost its meaning. It has 17 exceptions, plus a completely free migration from the European Union, the USA, Canada, Japan, etc. We are currently in the process of having a draft proposed by the government to further increase immigration from third countries. Your own party partner, Minister Palo, visited India and declared that we needed to bring in 7,000 IT specialists. The chairman of your party has announced that our goal is to get some 50,000 new people here in Estonia in the next few years. So the stories are very beautiful, but the reality...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U37	Where's the question?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U38	...and the actions are the opposite. Why are you blinding me? Why are you actually increasing immigration?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U39	Thank you. I think if something is a shame, it's populism. That's what I'm hearing from all over the hall right now. I'll tell you again. You started your first argument by saying that this is a Russification and we have a lot of workers coming from the east. Yeah, I think that's a problem, too. When we are talking about the quota being fulfilled, the same quota, which, by the way, was filled up as of yesterday, will be filled with simple workers, although in fact we want employers to deal first with our own Estonian people. Production of the added value of people from there, let us be honest, is not very high. The question is how to deal with this further so that the Estonian entrepreneur is satisfied. Once again, the problem is Estonia's own labour market. Ida-Virumaa and South-East Estonia are twice as unemployed as other regions. This has also been my message at all meetings with entrepreneurs. First of all, the programmes offered by our Unemployment Insurance Fund must be used as a basis to enable people to be retrained, etc. However, as far as the removal of the same quota is concerned, I will just give you a few figures. Yes, we brought out IT specialists from the beginning of this year, because Estonia cannot prepare them to the extent necessary. We simply do not have so many people physically who would like to learn it. The removal of the quota freed 170 jobs, i.e. 170 IT specialists came to Estonia. The whole world is looking for people and trying to attract professionals to make the economy work with high added value. Estonia must also develop faster in these directions and be competitive. When we talk about lower added value, the quota will work there and it will continue to work.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U40	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U41	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Well, let's do some facts. I'm gonna take two questions in one minute. Firstly, last year, the government refused to abolish this ceiling, about 1300 people per year as labour immigration. This is actually a so-called notional quota, because most people are excluded from this quota. The Group of Experts has now expressed the view that this quota should be abolished for a very large part of the workforce, and the Government has agreed to this. The government has also agreed that the so-called short-term period of employment, which to date was nine months, would extend to 12 months. If I'm wrong, correct me and bring out the facts. My second question concerns labour shortages in our labour market. What has been done and what steps have been taken, for example, specifically by the Ministry of the Interior to alleviate the labour problem and to return our people from abroad? We are talking about tens of thousands of workers who have left Estonia but would return to work here if possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U42	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U43	What steps have the Ministry of the Interior taken to implement this activity?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U44	Thank you. First of all, about the return of the Estonian people. I dare say to you that this trend is very much growing. Over the last two or three years, immigration, including the return of Estonia's own people, has been greater than emigration. That's point one. Point two, when we talk about where these people come from outside the quota, there are a lot of people who do not come here to work, but come with their families. There are also those who come here to study. Thirdly, I do not understand how you know that the government has agreed to the decision to abolish the immigration limit. That's complete news for me. I don't know what government you're talking about. The decision taken by our government office at the beginning of this year is very clear: the quota remains, the quota will not disappear. However, the possibility of temporary employment in Estonia is extended from nine months to one year, just as temporary employment from third countries is allowed longer in the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U45	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U46	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good minister! I'm gonna throw some numbers out here, too. When we talk about Russification, 87% of temporary work permits were granted in 2017 to people from three countries: Russia, Belarus and Ukraine. These are clearly Slavic countries. At the end of 2016, the stone is clearly going to the Reform Party's cabbage garden, but you were a member of this government, the wage bill was relaxed from 1.2 to 1.0. This allowed temporary work permits and a five-fold increase. If I remember correctly, 17,000 were released. However, we do not know how many temporary agency workers work in Estonia, nor do we know how many seasonal workers work. Maybe you'll enlighten us and tell us how many there are. We are talking about tens of thousands of people coming to Estonia on lower wages than in Harju County, for example, because the average wage in Estonia is lower than the average for Harju. We're talking about labor dumping and your people...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U47	Question please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U48	I would like to know how many seasonal and temporary agency workers there were in Estonia last year.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U49	Thank you. Let's start with the fact that temporary work continues for nine months according to the current procedure, after which a person must leave Estonia. These jobs are designed to ease projects, constructions, etc. These people don't live here permanently. Yes, in that you are right that most of them come from Ukraine and Belarus, as well as from Russia. However, the largest number of people coming from Ukraine is coming from Ukraine, and in particular the number of people coming from Ukraine increased after Ukraine received visa liberalisation. That is also understandable, because in that case they do not have to be formalised. That's where the biggest mathematical shift is. When we are talking about temporary agency workers, I agree that the temporary agency labour scheme that was created in the European Union in its time has been out of the way. We, too, have begun to analyse how to change this system, because it is being abused now. In terms of free movement of labour, the idea is very good, for example, you do the same in Poland, you have a real company there, people come to Estonia, the Netherlands or go somewhere else to do the same job. What happened? Our own schemers started to create fictitious companies in Poland, where the work is not actually done, and instead came to Estonia. Speaking of figures, we estimate that there are up to 5,000 illegal workers in Estonia. To this I would certainly like to say that the Ministry of the Interior has already sent you to the Riigikogu, within the framework of this same student directive, the principle of abolishing the D-visa. This is quite a novelty throughout the European Union. If a person works illegally, his or her visa with which he or she is in the European Union can be revoked and expelled. This, however, is only one step. The second step to reduce illegal employment is a package that is currently waiting for the Ministry of the Interior to be sent to your esteemed table. From now on, we can discuss the responsibility of the employer. It's a long story. I'm out of time right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U50	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U51	The next question to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas will be asked by Jaak Madison. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U52	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Prime Minister! In recent weeks, the continuing work of maternity departments in Põlva and Valga, small towns of southern Estonia, has become a very important topic of debate. As Head of Government, you yourself have spoken out in public on this issue, so I assume that it is justified to put this question to you. Despite the decision of the hospital board, I ask what has been done by the Government of the Republic or, as you know, the Ministry of Social Affairs to analyse what additional resources would be needed to ensure the sustainability of the current service and that hospitals are not expected to close despite the decrease in the number of births. What additional resources would this require? What amount and over what period of time? I assume you've analyzed this, and I'd be happy if you could share this information with us.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U53	Thank you, sweet questioner! I went there myself last night. The topic is very emotional for both Põlva and Valga. If you're asking about the sums, that's one half of it, and I'll come right to what that means. The other side is the security side, i.e. the safety of the giver, or mother, and the new citizen of the world. The third is what you have even mentioned, namely the hospitals' councils and the legal side that have been agreed upon. The Valga Hospital Board has not now taken a joint decision on the closure of the maternity department. This decision has been taken by Põlva at Council level and it has also been registered as a networking document, which says that the maternity department will be closed by the end of 2018, i.e. 31 December 2018. I went to both hospitals last night. As I said, emotionally I do not like the decision that maternity departments will be shut down and once again an important service will disappear from the centres of Estonian counties. I also said that if the hospitals' councils have a wish to debate whether the maternity department could last, I am certainly prepared to do so. In financial terms, according to the head of Valga Hospital, this means a circa of EUR 0,4 million, or EUR 400000. In the case of the knee, I think it's a little bit smaller.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U54	Jaak Madison, the first question to be specified, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U55	Thank you. I think it has little to do with emotions. I remember when the Centre Party was in opposition, you were always talking about regional policy. In this case, this is one aspect of regional policy and the duration of life in rural areas. I do not think it makes sense for us to go before the elections to tell the voters that we are in fact not entirely dependent on us, because all decisions are made by another institution that we cannot influence. Inevitably, the Government of the Republic and you personally are responsible for the development of regional policy or its backward development. I think a regular person in Põlva or Valga isn't very comforting when you say you can't influence it. You have to give me answers. It is up to you, in cooperation with the hospitals' councils, to find solutions for the service to continue and to find out the amounts needed to maintain the quality of the service. My question, therefore, is this: what is the difference between the Reform Party, during which the maternity department was closed in Jõgeva, Haapsalu and Rapla, and the Centre Party, who will now close them in Valga and Põlva during its reign? What's the difference between you?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U56	Thank you. I do not know what would happen if the EKRE were in power and how you saw the life of Estonia, but it seems to me that you, Mr Madison, see it so that if your party chairman is Prime Minister, he will open the maternity department there and the post office in another place and build some kind of kiosk in a third place. It doesn't work that way. I understand that you are simply not aware of the functioning of the whole country, of the functioning of a democratic state, but you cannot be blamed for this, but experience will come over the years. Now for the closure of the maternity units. There is currently cooperation with the Health Insurance Fund and the Minister of Health and Labour and I have been there. You're always asking from a financial point of view. Once again, money is not a primary issue at all. If it were just a question of money, I think that the state could, in any case, find these sums and solve them. That was also my message yesterday to the board of both hospitals. However, the women's association says that there are too few births there, and the potential risk of something happening to a new world citizen or mother is very high. Some members of the Põlva Hospital Board say that timing is wrong, it should not be done now, and so do some members of the Valga Hospital Board. For a knee hospital, citizens have collected a lot of signatures, please listen to me, maybe you can answer your question! . and shared information also on social media. They, too, said when we spoke yesterday that a critical line would come at one point. They do not think that the maternity department should be kept until one birth per year. I am ready to work to ensure that there are plenty of births, both in Valga and Põlva. But proactive action must come from the councils.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U57	Jaak Madison, the second point to be specified.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U58	Thank you. For starters, Mr. Ratas, you don't have to be patronizing me. I understand if Mart Helme is lecturing me on the surface of his life experience, it's justified. But you, I think, shouldn't do that. As for what we would do differently if the EKRE were in power, I would remind you of your opposition times if you were very wiser and teachers here, how the Reform Party should lead the country. As we see in reality, it doesn't matter much. We would say that we certainly would not take tens of millions of euros out of Latvia, carry out excise policy, certainly we would not have completed an administrative reform that would lead to peripheralisation, certainly we would encourage the Estonian doctors to stay in Estonia or return, which is one aspect of hospital work and the continuing work of maternity departments. So there are a lot of aspects that could actually be done and that all in synergy would also affect the continuation of the work of these departments. So I have a question about what this money will finally be spent on, and what will be your concrete future action. What do you say to the Põlva person? What happens if they have to give birth in Tartu, but the children are born in an ambulance, as has happened dozens of times last year?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U59	Thank you. I understand you may have lost this idea several times by asking this question, but I'm trying to figure out what you wanted to know. First of all, the difference between the Centre Party and the Reform Party is enormous. I understand you've approached the Reform Party. I read how some members of both you and the Reform Party are talking about a new government union: the EKRE and the Reform Party. The question is, who will take the position of Prime Minister? But your question was what's the difference. The difference is local government policy. We said in the opposition that local authorities must get back the money that was taken from them. A further EUR 30 million has been allocated to local governments this year, without any additional tasks. When we were in opposition, we said that the treatment queues should be shortened. In the government, we have decided to allocate 220 million extra to the health insurance fund over the next four years to shorten the waiting lists. When we were in opposition, we said that the net income of people on low and medium wages must rise. The tax-free minimum is now 500 euros, not 180 euros. There is no fine-tuning that we raise ten euros every year. When we were in opposition, we said that top-up support for Estonian farmers must rise. It was EUR zero for three years; it is currently paid at a maximum rate. When we were in opposition, we said that the pay of teachers and cultural workers must rise. We now know that the minimum wage for teachers is EUR 1150 and that the minimum wage for cultural workers is also EUR 1150. These are concrete examples that have changed in Estonia. I think that the people of Põlva and Valga have given the very strong input they want, and I have given the input against it, that if hospital medical staff see it as well, then we must certainly work to ensure that the activities of the maternity department there continue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U60	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U61	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable Prime Minister! I would, of course, like to begin by thanking the doctors, midwives and teams who have achieved excellence in the birth rate of children in Estonia, i.e. in reducing birth-related mortality. I really hope that all families can give birth where they want most inside. However, the statements made by the ministers of the Government of the Republic, including Mr Ossinovski, are certainly not satisfied with the attempt to refer the matter to the hospital council. I am not talking here about him going to receive the birth himself, but I am talking about the fact that the government should give the knowledge that if the Council decides otherwise, there will be financial resources. That's what I'd like to hear. Although this seems incredible at the moment, because we have heard about the minimum wage of EUR 1000 in our electoral promises in Estonia, but so far this has not happened. Are you prepared to provide Põlva and Valga hospitals with additional resources, taking into account all the risks, so that childbirth can continue?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U62	Thank you. I am simply saying that I must also look at the body language that works in this Chamber of the Riigikogu. In my opinion, this cooperation must be recognised, sincerely and without any joke. I answered Mr Madison's question about EKRE. Of course, he didn't listen to the end, and he came to you, as I understand it, said what you should ask. I don't know if you asked what he said or not, but it shows that this cooperation is working very well. I believe that this maturity of political culture and the creation of bridges between the EKRE and the Reform Party will work, not only theoretically, but also in practice. I replied to the questioner from the EKRE Group that the primary issue was not the issue of money. These sums, either the 400000 that I was told at Valga Hospital, or Põlva, a little less, are not the ones behind the decision as to whether or not the maternity department will remain. These must be substantive issues. If medical workers and staff say that it is possible to continue in the maternity department, then I think that the Minister of Health and Labour and I are ready to work for it. You rightly said that neither Mr Ossinovski nor Mr Ratas would accept births, that is absurd. That is why Estonia has put in place those authorities who make such decisions ♪ the council of the two hospitals. In both hospitals, as we know, 51% of the shares are held by one of the largest hospitals in Estonia, the University of Tartu Hospital, which has the best knowledge and certainly competent members of the board, as well as representatives of Valga and Põlva municipalities. They will take decisions in cooperation with the Bureau and, of course, if this issue arises, it will have to be discussed further.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U63	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U64	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good Prime Minister! We have strong and coherent cooperation in this opposition, nothing. I think with your last talk, you actually got to the point. The point is very simple: this whole process of closure of hospitals is working to mobilise the funds of the Health Insurance Fund in a large centre, the University of Tartu Hospital. The University of Tartu Hospital bought up smaller regional hospitals for this reason, with the aim of eating them out of the market and getting the money from the health insurance fund. There is no difference for the taxpayer, or the health insurance fund, whether the birth takes place in Valga, Põlva or Tartu, the exact same price list. It's just a pooling of money into a single institution through a market collapse. Here are the criticisms to you, you will not prevent it; you will not oppose it regionally. I will then ask you more simply: what would this EUR 400000 or EUR 300000 have to do to improve the quality there?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U65	Thank you. It's a good thing we can go to the details in this discussion. Female doctors first, point one. Point two is that when we talk about the maternity department, it means that all minutes, all seconds must be on-call. Staff salaries. There must also be certain equipment that is not available in Valga and Põlva, but there are major hospitals, for example. Now, with this, you are completely mistaken or deliberately misled that if, for example, this maternity department, let's say theoretically, is shut down, that money will be taken away, the sickness fund will take it away. I won't. On the contrary. It has been said that both hospitals, Valga and Kõlva, have these resources. You said on the issue that hospitals bought up the University Hospital of Tartu. As far as I know, these municipalities wanted to make this kind of deal, seduction. Whether it's right or wrong, you can debate it. I think we need to debate the values of how Põlva and Valga would have more people tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, the same people as us. Can we build enough infrastructure there, can we sufficiently value education policy and social policy there, is the state a good enough partner for the private sector to create jobs there? Then, in fact, the question of whether or not the maternity department should be closed is going off the agenda at all. I said yesterday, as has the Minister for Health and Labour, that the closure decision is, of course, not a good one. It's better if the maternity department stays there, that's at least my point of view.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U66	I will conclude on this issue. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Members of the Free Party Group have today waived the right to ask questions in Question Time. We respect their decision. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U67	Honourable Riigikogu! Let's start the Wednesday hearing. Who wants to hand over drafts or inquiries? Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U68	Ladies and gentlemen, Dearly beloved of our departed friend! It wasn't meant to be, it was meant to be exactly the opposite, but I'm now handing over a bill that Andres signed last and that's the last draft he signed. This concerns the amendment of the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act. The contents have long been known. That's the story.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U69	There's no more calls. I have adopted one draft which we are going to process under the Home and Working Procedures Act. Incoming check, please! 67 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U70	We will begin the examination of the agenda items for the Wednesday sitting. The first is the third reading of § 341 of the Act on Supplementing Traffic Act, which was initiated by the Economic Commission. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U71	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to be here today at the third reading and to talk about § 341 of the Traffic Act, having itself been one of the initiators of this law. For the last ten years, businesses have been talking about the need to create a more level playing field in the transport sector than in our neighbours. When it has often been said that it is not possible to increase the tonnage of cars, it has been forgotten that we should look at the axle load and not at anything else. The amendment to § 341 of the Traffic Act aims to increase the efficiency of road transport. With effect from 1 July, a special carriage may be carried out by means of a Euro V or a less polluting Euro-emission-class truck, a combination of vehicles, with all the axles of vehicles in a combination of vehicles, with the exception of the steered axle, equipped with paired wheels and the actual mass of a combination of vehicles does not exceed 48 tonnes for a 6-axle combination and 52 tonnes for a 7-axle or more. It should also be stressed that the change will have a positive impact on the road transport sector. This will increase opportunities for special transport, thus increasing transport efficiency and the competitiveness of the industry. The law also has a positive impact on nature and the environment as it promotes the use of less polluting trucks. The use of larger combinations of vehicles reduces overall mileage and the amount of fuel consumed by combinations of vehicles. I hope that all the members of the Riigikogu in the Chamber today will support this good draft, which has been waiting for adoption at least in my time, for the last seven years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U72	There is no further wish for negotiations. Let's go to the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law supplementing § 341 of the Traffic Act, initiated by the Economic Commission, 480. Please take a stand and vote. There were 61 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft law 480, with 7 abstentions. § 341 of the Traffic Act supplementing the Act has been passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U73	The third reading of the draft Act amending the VAT Act is now initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiations, we are going to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft Act amending the VAT Act initiated by the Government of the Republic 556. Please take a stand and vote. There were 66 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft 556 and 7 abstentions. The Act amending the VAT Act has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U74	The following is the third reading of the Act amending the Identity Documents Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Obligation to Leave and Prohibition of Entry Act (European Return Travel Document) 585. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiations, we are going to the final vote. I am voting on the draft law amending the Law on identity documents initiated by the Government of the Republic and on the obligation of departure and refusal of entry law (European travel document for return) 585. Please take a stand and vote. There were 65 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the adoption of the draft law 585 and 7 abstentions. Draft 585 has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U75	Second reading of the Act amending the Identity Documents Act initiated by the Government of the Republic (validity of digital identity card) 569. Rein Randver, waitress of the Constitutional Commission, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U76	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The second reading of the draft law amending the Identity Documents Act (validity of the digital identity card) 569 was discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 19 March. No proposals were received by the deadline for submitting amendments, which was 7 March, but, at the request of the initiator, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs tabled one amendment to the draft and it concerns the entry into force of the Act. The Commission decided to submit an amendment to the Plenary Assembly. The Commission's decisions were as follows: propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda, including by 4 April, propose that the second reading be closed, send the draft to third reading when the second reading is closed, including by 11 April, and propose that the draft be put to the final vote. All decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U77	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Thank you, Rein Randver! I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. The second reading of Bill 569 is complete. I'm sorry! There was also one amendment. Everyone agrees with that. The second reading of the bill is now complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U78	Draft 584, draft law amending the Consular Act and the Identity Documents Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, second reading. Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U79	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Ladies and gentlemen, You have before you the draft law amending the Consular Act and the Identity Documents Act, the first reading of which took place on 14 March. The deadline for the amendments was 19 March at 5.15 p.m. No amendments were received by the Commission at that time. However, on a proposal from the language editor, we did make some linguistic changes, which the Commission also unanimously supported. On 20 March, when we prepared this draft for a second reading in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, we decided to put it on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu today. In the event that the second reading is closed today, we have a proposal to put the draft on the agenda for the plenary session of the Riigikogu for the third reading on Wednesday, 11 April, then put it to the final vote and adopt it as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U80	Questions for the waitress? There aren't any. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. There were no amendments to the draft 584. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U81	Second reading of the draft Act amending the Defence Union Act and the Income Tax Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Waitress of the National Defence Committee, Margus Tsahkna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U82	Dear Chairman, Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic initiated a draft law amending the Defence Union Act and the Income Tax Act on 5 March. The first reading of the bill in this Chamber was completed on 15 March. The deadline for submitting amendments was set at 5.15 p.m. on 29 March. At that time, no amendments were tabled outside the commission. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before submitting it to second reading, including at its meeting on 22 March, attended by Chancellor Jonathan Vseviov of the Ministry of Defence and a lawyer from the Legal Department. In addition, Major General Meelis Kiili, Head of the General Department of the Defence League and Lea Vaba, Head of the General Department of the General Staff of the Defence League, took part in this meeting. In addition, the National Defence Committee discussed this draft at its meeting on 2 April. A total of six amendments to the draft were tabled by the National Defence Committee as the lead committee. The representatives of the Ministry of Defence support the amendments proposed by the National Defence Commission. The National Defence Commission also accompanied the discussion by the Defence League, represented in the Commission by the Head of the Department of the Defence League and the Head of the General Staff of the Defence Union, as I mentioned earlier. Now to the amendments. Amendment 1 is specific and follows from the general regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council, which provides for the processing of personal data, which is directly applicable from 25 May. A special type of personal data is referred to here as sensitive personal data. In the government's coordination circle, there is a draft replacing the concept of sensitive personal data with'special personal data' in different laws, so this is a technical change. Amendments 2 to 6 relate to the establishment of the Defence League's defence community. The information on this, including the tasks, is detailed in the explanatory memorandum to the second reading of the draft, and I am not going to read it for a long time here. However, this is an important decision. This has been done for years, and I would also like to thank General Laaneots, from this panel of the Riigikogu, who has stood for this subject for a long time. I can say that with the agreement and support of the Defence League, the National Defence Commission has included the corresponding amendments here and the Ministry of Defence supports them. The establishment of a governance level in the defence community can also consolidate activities that are unreasonable due to a low burden. At the same time, the provision of activities across chess makes it possible to ensure a full-time job and also to ensure that the chess needs are met. For example, the aim is to cover medical, security, real estate management, communication, etc. across chess, so that one employee covers 3 to 5 chess, depending on the area and volume). The creation of an intermediate management level will reduce the number of direct subordinates of the Chief of the Defence League to 10, as 15 Chevaliers will be replaced by four commanders from the militia. The rural districts are the district of the North, the district of the north-east, the district of the South and the district of the West. No members or collegiate bodies are planned for the militias. The Defence District will be completed with current active troops and employees performing the above functions in the district chess. The Chesses will continue to engage in membership and up to company level military training and preparation. As a result of the creation of an intermediate level of governance within the Defence League, the current wage formations of the chess must be optimised in order to ensure proportionate consistency with the size and responsibilities of the membership. The cost of establishing the defence community will be covered by the state budget allocated to the Defence League and its own revenues. By decision of 19 March 2018, the Government of the Republic has increased the maximum number of active troops allowed by the Defence League, which is necessary for the manning of the militias. There is no need for more real estate development; the rural districts will be located on the current state-of-the-art infrastructure. The draft provides for a different period of entry into force of the provisions relating to the militias, 1 January 2019. In addition to the above amendments, the National Defence Committee made some linguistic clarifications to the draft, which are underlined in the text of the draft. In summary, the draft under discussion is a necessary law that strengthens a more important foundation for the state's defence capabilities, a Defence League based on volunteers. I would ask my colleagues to support the amendments proposed by the Committee on National Defence and the further procedure of the draft. When the second reading of the draft is closed, the National Defence Committee intends to bring the third reading of the draft before the plenary session on 11 April. Procedural decisions. The National Defence Committee decided at its meeting on 8 March 2018 (consensus), when the first reading of the draft was closed, to submit the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu, including by 4 April or today. At its meeting on 2 April (consensus), the National Defence Committee approved the draft text at second reading, the list of amendments and the explanatory memorandum. At its meeting on 2 April (consensus), the National Defence Committee also decided to propose that the Riigikogu conclude the second reading of the draft. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U83	Questions for the waitress. No, it's not. Thank you, Margus Tsahkna! I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. Six amendments have been tabled, all by the commission itself: the first, the second, the third, the fourth, the fifth and the sixth. The second reading of Bill 593 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U84	First reading of the draft Act amending the Estonian Health Insurance Fund Act and the Health Insurance Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Evgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour, opening waitress, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U85	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Riigikogu! We are pleased to introduce you to the Estonian Health Insurance Fund Act and the draft law amending the Health Insurance Act. The main objective of the draft is to change the organisation of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund's Supervisory Board. We have planned that this bill could enter into force on 1 September 2018, should the Riigikogu agree with the government. What are the reasons for the changes? The current governance structure of the Health Insurance Fund is structured in such a way that the board is supervised by a Council of 15 members. This scheme is based on the experience of the Health Insurance Board, which served as an advisory body at the Central Health Insurance Fund in the 1990s. That is why the Board of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund was established in its own time on a broad basis, including representatives of the state, employers' associations and organisations representing insured persons. After a long and fruitful job at the Health Insurance Fund, we have now, in fact, reached the view in several governments that such a procedure would need to be changed, i.e. the role of the Council and, consequently, the size of its composition should be clarified. The Council so far has been built on the principle of social partnership, there have been five representatives of the state, five representatives of employers and five representatives of the insured. We certainly want to keep this principle of social partnership in the future. In developing the regulation of the draft, we were based on the model of the unemployment fund, which is also based on a social partnership with a proportion of 2: 2, i.e. two employers' representatives, two trade union representatives and two national representatives. As a result, we started with the reform of the Health Insurance Fund Council. The aim was indeed to make the work of the Council more operational. But perhaps even more importantly, the work of the Health Insurance Board is currently organised in such a way that the Council plays some two roles at the same time. One is the role of the board of directors in the management of the health insurance fund as a public financial institution and a public insurance company; the other is the management of the health care system in a sense. As a result, on the one hand, the Council decides on issues relating to the financial sustainability of the Health Insurance Fund and the principles of financial planning, on the other hand, there are people who represent certain groups of society, such as the Alliance for Child Protection, associations of pensioners and many others. In some cases, these roles tend to get a little mixed up. We must take decisions in the Council that require medical competence. Some board members have this competence, but most do not have enough. Not all actors in the health system, specialists, are involved in the Council today, as system 5: 5 is broad-based, but does not allow everyone to speak with one voice. Consequently, several organisations occasionally write and say that they too would like to be members of the Health Insurance Board. There is certainly also a conflict of interest here. We have, as the various parties mentioned in the Council, people who are directly involved either in the provision of health care services or in the production of medicines, a representative of the Association of Hospitals, who clearly have their own special interests in this matter, are absolutely legitimate and understandable, but nevertheless have special interests. We have come to the idea that, in the future, the Health Insurance Board could be the place where the health insurance fund, as a public insurance company, is mostly carried out by making decisions on financial matters, but the concentration and hearing of medical competence could take place in a different format. This second format is also laid down in the draft and reproduced in the explanatory memorandum. Commissions are foreseen where health stakeholders can provide their input on an equal footing. This law gives rise to the obligation to set up a list of health services advisory to the board of the Health Insurance Fund. The list of health services, which is a regulation of the Government of the Republic, is the main instrument in which health care is managed in addition to health care financing agreements. In the Council, too, the question arises from time to time as to whether one procedure or another, the price of one or the other health service is adequate or not. The members of the Council do not have the necessary and comprehensive expertise to take these decisions. In future, it could be the committee that will discuss these proposals and then make proposals to the Bureau in this context. Similar procedures apply, for example, to the treatment of preferential medicines: the Committee of Professionals assesses and makes a reasoned proposal on the basis of all applications for medicinal products received on the basis of certain criteria. In order to strengthen the Council's long-term strategic vision, the Health Insurance Fund has already set up a committee to advise the Council on strategic issues, including representatives of the Estonian Medical Association, the Estonian Association of Family Doctors, the Estonian Association of Nurses, the Estonian Confederation of Central Health Care Professionals, the Estonian Association of Midwives, the Estonian Association of Private Health Care Institutions, the Association of Health Care Providers, the Estonian Association of Hospitals, the Estonian Association of Emergency Aids, the Estonian Association of Pharmacies and the Association of Pharmaceutical Producers. There is a clear description of the issues on which the Council wants to hear the opinion. In our initial plan, as has been said, there was a proposal to establish a Health Insurance Fund on the basis of the Council principle: 2: 2, i.e. two representatives of the government, two representatives of employers and two representatives of the insured. As a model, it would have looked as if the government was represented by a government member responsible for health care and a government member responsible for finance, which is still the case, the Confederation of Employers appoints for its part two members and one member appointed by the Confederation of Trade Unions representing the interests of the insured and one member appointed by the Chamber of Persons with Disabilities. During the procedure of this draft, concerns were expressed at the level of the Government of the Republic that there would be no representatives of the Riigikogu in the council drawn up on the basis of this model, especially with regard to the representatives of the opposition of the Riigikogu. As a result, the Ministry of Social Affairs has changed the initial point and has included in the Council the seventh member, who is in our vision the chairman of the committee responsible for budgetary control, who, according to parliamentary practice, is the representative of the opposition. The point is that if, according to the current procedure, the Social Affairs Committee appoints one member and one member is the chairman of the Social Affairs Committee after the post, then since the Council's role in the new model will change by its very nature, which means that the Council will do more to supervise the long-term health insurance fund than to run the insurance company, that competence, which we actually expect more there, is precisely the competence of matters of sustainability and financial discipline in the social system. That was the government's proposal to process this bill. It has been a question of why the House of People with Disabilities is here. We have based ourselves on the fact that the House of People with Disabilities is a umbrella organisation for several associations of diagnostic patients. The Ministry of Social Affairs has a prior experience in the activities of the Chamber, which has represented the interests of patients in the development of regulations. Consequently, such a proposal has also been proposed. In our opinion, the House of People with Disabilities is currently the strongest representative organisation of patients in Estonia. There are some other organisations, but either their sound is not sufficient or they are inappropriate for some other reason. We have laid down additional requirements to avoid conflicts of interest for the board members appointed by the government, who will have four members in the future: two members on the proposal of the Confederation of Employers, one member on the proposal of the Confederation of Trade Unions and one member on the proposal of the Chamber of People with Disabilities. They provide for the exclusion of conflicts of interest. According to the draft, a member of the supervisory board may not be associated with a health care provider or with a person authorised to manufacture or sell medicinal technology. It may also not be a member of the governing body of a representative organisation of those activities or receive from a representative organisation, on the basis of a contract, a service or service fee relating to the principal activity of a representative organisation or to the representation of its interests. The Government shall consider these matters when appointing a member of the Governing Council. The latest amendment is not related to the Council's organisation of work, but concerns the current legal provision under which fixed-term contracts with the heads of the structural units of the Health Insurance Fund are concluded with a term of up to five years. This provision is no longer in line with the rules of the Employment Contracts Act and also deprives the board of the Health Insurance Fund of management flexibility. This has been proposed by the new chairman of the Health Insurance Fund. That's all for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U86	Questions for the initiator of the draft. Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U87	Thank you. Good minister! My colleague Sester and I have just remembered August 2016, which was a year and a half ago. At that time, the Health Insurance Fund's board had a very strong argument over a major deficit. At the time, the three of us also discussed this issue at the House of Stenbock, and we came to a common understanding that the Health Insurance Board had to be reduced in order to make the responsibility clearer and to be able to manage more clearly. I am pleased that this bill has come before us now, one and a half years later. But my question is very simple. This bill is not really very long or complicated. What did you do for a year and a half, and there was no stagnation?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U88	Thank you very much. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, A few months after that August, a new government took office. As I said at the beginning, the two governments have decided that this change should be made. But the new Government of the Republic also wanted to discuss this issue. This was discussed together with the topic of the reform of healthcare financing in April 2017, after which the concept was obtained and this change was developed. But the truth is that the procedure for draft health reform was at the top of our legislative priority. Last year it was a very quick and very busy job, with the same additional allocation from the state budget as well as with the additional medical allowance that was due to enter into force. In addition, there was a huge burden on the Presidency of the European Union. All this led to the fact that the procedure for this draft has been delayed. I would have liked to get it over with faster, too. But that's the way he's gone, and there's some adjustments made here. As I said, in the original plan, we had a proposal to move forward with model 2: 2 : 2. The government, however, thought that the opposition of the Riigikogu should be represented in the council, which assumed that we had to negotiate it with our partners, as this is the principle of social partnership. So I guess that's the reason.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U89	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U90	Thank you. Mr. Minister! I understand that the Council will decide only on financial matters in the future, and this substantive side, the medical side, will simply be transferred to committees where professional associations are represented. Why, then, does the Health Insurance Fund give this medicine a broader view of development and politics? When the Health Insurance Fund was established, the idea was that the Health Insurance Fund was merely a cash fund and that the Ministry (why not also the Ministry of Health) and the Health Services would still solve content issues. Have you ever approached this side?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U91	Thank you. The Council will, of course, now also address certain issues that concern health care in Estonia, because, as has been said, the list of health services is one of the most important documents that will be approved by the Health Insurance Board. We are discussing this, the Council is proposing to the Minister who is proposing to the Government to introduce it. But as soon as the debate goes on specific issues, such as how much a bed day should cost to treat children, some people say it should cost so much, the board of the health insurance fund says it should cost a lot, and the health insurance fund board has no competence to assess how much it should actually cost. We want to create a model, as is basically the case in the Committee on Medicinal Products: specialists from different institutions are together, they have certain criteria according to which they decide whether they should be either that or that, and consequently make their proposal. Our opinion is that this proposal could therefore be more comprehensively considered and decisions wiser. This does not preclude that the board of the health insurance fund may not accept all the proposals. For example, it is also an opportunity that professionals may agree that some services should be added to the list, but the budgetary cost may be too high, so this will be done next year. These matters can continue to be decided by the Governing Board. But for this committee, it is important that their decisions and proposals are public, they can, of course, be assessed by the Bureau, to whom they are directly addressed, and also by the Council. Of course, the Governing Council can make recommendations to the Governing Board on the basis of a more diverse expertise. I agree with you that the Ministry of Social Affairs should take on a stronger role in health management, health development, than it has done so far. We have given a little too much power and power to the health insurance fund in certain places, and the Council has also given it to the board, as a result of the same issue of conflict of interest. For example, certain issues currently cannot be decided in the Council; they have been delegated to the Governing Board because there are people among the members of the Governing Council who would be equally or otherwise interested in taking these decisions. If conflicts of interest can be avoided, perhaps some decisions will come back to the level of the Council. But I agree that strategically health issues should be more head of the Ministry of Social Affairs. Over the last few years, we have also moved in the direction of taking on stronger leadership on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U92	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U93	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I certainly have no doubt either that the Council's work format has lived up to its own time and that it needs to be changed. I do not understand a little bit about the social partnership's approach, as you reported here. I have two observations, one on the representative of the House of Disabled People, who should represent patients in a broad sense, and the other on the trade unions. And why? It is precisely because both have interests in the Council. If we look at the trade unions, their greatest interest is in wage negotiations. You have to admit that, that's what they stand for the most. On the other hand, the House of Disabled people does not represent the patient population in such a way that we can say that there is a broad representation. Did you never consider that this Council must be formed very clearly without any specific interest in the fact that there should not be people in the circle of decision-makers who have specific interests in any organisation?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U94	I think that the interest in representing patients, including the interest in representing, for example, the same members of the Chamber of Persons with Disabilities, people with chronic illnesses who need special care in the health care system, is not a bad interest and I do not think that this should be underestimated in any way. As far as the Confederation of Trade Unions is concerned, I have not noticed that they have put some pressure on the Council in terms of salaries. After all, there are also wage negotiations in the health sector between employers and employees, i.e. a union and hospital union, there are some other players, but there are broadly between the Hospital Association and the Medical Association and other trade unions. The Health Insurance Fund is simply the one who will eventually give his expert opinion on the costs and will have to budget this agreement. So, no, I haven't noticed it in that form. I agree that the Chamber of People with Disabilities is a specific representative organisation for patients. Of course, I would be pleased if Estonia had a very broad, strong and recognised organisation that protects patients' interests, as is the case in another country. I think that, in this case, it might well be worth considering including him on this list, or, for example, the Confederation of Trade Unions could appoint someone from there as their representative; this representative does not need to be a member of the trade union. But, unfortunately, we have not developed such a very strong established organization.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U95	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U96	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. When you discussed the new board members of the Health Insurance Fund, did you also discuss the fact that medical attention, I mean the representatives of doctors' associations or hospital managers, would take part in this council's work?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U97	Thank you. Currently, the Hospital Association is represented, and this has in some ways created a problem that we are also partly solving. The Association of Hospitals shall be a member of the Council acting on a proposal from employers. The Association of Private Medical Institutions has wanted to become a member. We have said that this is not in line with its governance principle, there is a conflict of interest. To that end, employers have said: 'But excuse me, why are active doctors represented on the Council from the other side? " The Doctors' Association has written that they would like to be on the board of the Health Insurance Fund, as well as a number of other organisations that can see that some are there, but there are no others. That is why our vision is that the Council should be free of these immediate health interests in the future. So where does that expertise come from? Those mentioned have undoubtedly all the expertise that is very valuable and very important and must be taken into account in decision-making. This should be done on a broad and more equal footing to the Bureau through an advisory commission. It is part of this draft, which will set up an advisory committee to discuss and deal with the proposals made on the list of health services and to make these proposals to the Bureau. There are all those mentioned by you and many others. This is the place where this 'all-round' expertise in the health sector is brought together on the table.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U98	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U99	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, My question does not directly concern the future composition of the Health Insurance Fund Board, but it does concern the sustainable, efficient and effective and legitimate use of the funds of the Health Insurance Fund and the state budget. This is also one of the objectives of this draft. Indeed, one issue remains unresolved. A few years ago, the reserves of the unemployment fund and the sickness fund were consolidated into the national group account at the Ministry of Finance and are also used to finance the state budget. The use of the Health Insurance Fund's reserves in the composition of the Treasury's group account must be brought into line with the Health Insurance Fund's law. The Minister of Finance has promised to initiate the bill. Now the Health Insurance Act is open, this change is on the table.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U100	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U101	Did the Minister of Finance propose that this issue be resolved at the meeting of the Government, or did you even discuss, on the proposal of the Minister of Finance, that this issue of reserves needs to be resolved?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U102	Thank you again.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U103	Thank you. The answer is no. No such proposal was made. I am well aware of this debate, of course. My information is the same as yours: the Ministry of Finance has said that they will initiate a draft in order to clarify this provision. This issue is not as such in the area of responsibility of the Ministry of Social Affairs. We can argue whether the change ever initiated by Jürgen Ligi is correct or not, but I do not think there are any practical concerns about it in today's situation. I agree that the additional certainty that the various parties have requested could be provided and that the Minister of Finance should bring this draft to the government. I haven't seen it. So I can't tell you by heart what kind of condition it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U104	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U105	Thank you. This initiative of mine was, of course, right, like all my initiatives. (Ligi and Ossinovski laugh.) But I had to ask about the presence of patients in the Council. You will understand that the House of People with Disabilities is no more a patient representation there than any other organisation, that its nature is only partially linked to health care and that it covers a very small minority of patients. Rather, we can talk about the different interests of patients. If other patients aren't represented in this way, then this problem, I believe, you'll understand, there is. You said that the reason is that there are no serious organisations. What, then, are the less serious organisations that could have been involved in this role? You've made a pretty strong assessment of other organizations. Which ones?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U106	Thank you. I didn't use that expression. But the truth is that, speaking of a sufficiently broad representation of patients, the House of People with Disabilities is the broadest representative organisation of patients in Estonia today. He does indeed represent a minority, but certainly not a disappearing small minority, but through his sub-organisations, which are members of the House of People with Disabilities, he represents quite a large number of people. As these patients also need more specific attention, I think that their membership there is justified and correct. Indeed, the experience of the Ministry of Social Affairs has been that it is the strongest partner in the context of protecting patients' interests. I would certainly like Estonia to have the same broad-based organisation for protecting patients' interests as there is in another country. There is a representation office in the hospital, where you can go right away and ask for advice if you are not happy with the health service, for example, or if you have other questions. We don't have that kind of thing. To some extent, this may be due to the weakness of organisations and, on the other hand, to the lack of awareness of people. This is actually one of the places where the Ministry of Social Affairs sees that it should develop a partnership. There could be more such organisations. But we have seen that, in some cases, the representation of patients' interests is that there is actually a clear message of some of the business interests of healthcare. It's all in the record. Some cases have been written in the press and some have not. But there's a lot of money in medicine. A lot of money is generated by many organisations, and not all of them are always out for the public interest.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U107	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U108	Good manager! Good minister! Let's take a look at the big picture. The Health Insurance Fund has a budget of over a billion, but RMK's budget is five times smaller. The Supervisory Board of RMK is composed of nine people. You propose that the Health Insurance Board be made up of seven members. Have you looked at the whole picture? Is dealing with the state forest more important than dealing with human health? The budgets are incomparable, but the number of board members... What logic does it follow?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U109	Thank you. As I said, it is subject to the logic of the social partnership. We have seen that the second public institution in the area of responsibility of the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund, operates at the level of the Council on the principle of 2: 2 : 2 and has worked very well. It is ensured that all members of the Council actually feel the substantive responsibility for the decisions that are taken there, and the discussions have been very operational and well done. I think this is a very good experience. This has been the reason why we have thought that a similar model could also work in health care. I am not a forestry specialist and I am not able to comment on the size of the RMK Council and whether it is optimal or not.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U110	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! People live in health longer and longer. So who are the patients? Patients should be as elderly as possible. Couldn't there be a representative of the Alliance of Pensioners as a representative of patients?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U112	Yes, and at the same time, children also need special care of the state, of course, and there are a great many organisations that really, without any irony, are doing a very important job in Estonian society, and without doubt they must also have a say in these matters. The question is, how is this supposed to work? As I explained, there are currently two mixed roles in the big Council at the same time. One is the representation of the interests of different patient groups in the Council. This will be addressed, the concerns and questions of specific patient groups will be brought before the Council and amendments will be made to one thing or another. On the other hand, the members of the board are legally responsible for the sustainability of the long-term development of the sickness fund as a whole and for other such issues. These are two very different functions. We want to separate these functions. We do not want to reduce the weight of specialists in decision-making, but actually increase it by making a two-tier system where, on the one hand, the Council, which deals primarily with the financial side, in a simplified way, and monitoring the long-term strategic development, on the other hand, through this same draft law, different specialists are represented in a much more broad way, so that the management of the health fund, i.e. the board and the board, can make wiser, more informed and more deliberate decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U113	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U114	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. My question is relatively simple and rural. I understand that the regulation of the Health Insurance Fund Council is being amended so that the division of work and roles between committees, the Council and the Management Board becomes more effective. But explain in a simple way to the person who actually needs the money from the Health Insurance Fund to improve his health, what this bill will change in his life. Are the hospital queues getting shorter, the doctor getting faster, or what's really gonna change?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U115	Thank you. Does this now change the picture of health care in Estonia very quickly and in principle? No, I won't. But our vision is that, as a result, the quality of decisions could also be improved by involving more expertise in the development and decision-making of matters concerning medical services, and this will certainly ultimately affect patients. An example of personal experience. Last year, we discussed at Council level whether diabetic insulin pumps should be added to the list. Everyone felt they should. But what kind of pumps, but at what discount? Finally, some kind of decision was made, but no one in the Council had any certainty as to whether it was an optimal decision or not, because we are not specialists in this area. Such questions should be prepared and substantive proposals made by specialists, as I said, as is the case in the Committee on Medicinal Products. Perhaps, if this had been the case, these same pumps would have reached the list of preferential medicines earlier or under much better conditions. I do not know what to say, it is indeed a question that specialists need to discuss with each other. On the other hand, what has been lacking in the Council, and what we hope will now come up with, is that the Council will be more capable of dealing with strategic governance. We are still doing a great deal of running the existing system on an annual basis, without us being able to give the board any sign of the way to which we are heading. There is a development plan, there are certain meters and indicators, but the Council has had little power so far, because we have not given enough priority to this role, because at the same time we have to deal with very many individual issues where we do not have enough competence. We have now set up a committee to deal with strategic development issues within the Council, where we can also discuss these issues. For example, a practical subject: we want the Health Insurance Fund to spend more on prevention, prevention to be more focused and prevention programmes developed, which would be possible not immediately, but, for example, to save money and improve people's health over a period of ten years. Since the Health Insurance Fund, by its very nature, deals almost all the time with extinguishing the fire, there is little money, the queues are long, the patients want more services, a little too little attention is paid to these strategic matters. It is quite understandable on the board that this is being done, but it could be the Council that sets a little longer-term direction. I hope it improves with the new model. In the coming years, this could also be reflected in the fact that our health insurance system and the health care system as a whole are working better.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U116	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U117	Thank you. Mr. Minister! Try to answer that question again. I would argue that you used the words'seriously taken' about the House of People with Disabilities, that this is a serious organisation.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U118	Yeah, I'm sure.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U119	But is it really true that patients, 1.3 million people or any part of them, are represented by representatives of people with disabilities? Isn't that a little ironic, especially when you use those words? This coverage is still very small and very specific.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U120	Thank you. I don't have the statistics right here. 'The House of the Disabled' is a bit misleading as an expression. There are certainly people who have been assessed by the Social Insurance Board as a disabled person, but the House as a whole represents essentially people with more complex chronic illnesses who have a greater need for healthcare. They are certainly specially cared for by the state, as well as by the constitution. I think that the concerns they express are not due to their specific special interest, but, in reality, largely to the interests of patients in general. That's it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U121	Urmas Kruuse, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U122	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! These answers on representation are not very convincing. Did I hear you right? You referred, as if, to the problem that the board of directors presented to the Council the material of the insulin pumps was discussed, but could not prepare the material in such a way that it would have been easier for the Council to decide and choose based on both financial and substantive capabilities? After all, there is some expert opinion that the board must be involved right now. The fact that at one point it is concentrated or described in a different way should not reduce or a priori increase the competence that we have to take off the market. I would like to say, however, whether you would think about the representation that has been created through the House of People with Disabilities and so on. This Council should be completely independent, so that there are no special interests.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U123	Thank you. I continue to believe that social partnership is necessary in this regard. This means that representatives of insurers and insured persons are needed there in addition to the representatives of the state. Then the question is whether the members of the family should be represented within the framework of the general social partnership by the Confederation of Trade Unions, as they wished, and what is the model of the unemployment fund. We have thought that, given the specifics of the Health Insurance Fund, one of these organisations could be more specifically an organisation that protects patients' interests. Consequently, these decisions were taken as such. To further clarify, perhaps I expressed myself a little bit imprecisely in terms of what this Commission could give compared to today's situation. Of course, certain stakeholders and organisations will be able to increase the pressure for the Health Insurance Fund to finance it, the second, third or fourth, and if they are successful, it is likely that either a service or something else will receive funding as a result. The question is whether this is the most important thing, looking at the whole picture, that should be funded, or whether it is just a very good sales job here. This committee, which I talked about, which is broad-based and inclusive of expertise, could be the place where more objective consideration is given to which choices to make. After all, giving money to fund medical care is always a matter of choice. I prefer that there is as much information as possible to make a choice in order to do it in the best way possible. I feel that there is not enough on the side of the Council right now. We don't have enough information. People and organisations will write letters to the Council and ask for one, two and three to be done, but we have no competence and no place to discuss it in such a way as to make an expert decision. This is the case with medicines. I think that could also be the case with the list of health services.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U124	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U125	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. I'm sure you've all thought this through nicely. But in one of your previous responses, as regards the representation of the House of Patients and Disabled Persons, there was a saying such as the emergence of business interests in healthcare. You mentioned that for a second, if I'm not mistaken. Is the emergence of business interests in healthcare excluded in the form that this bill proposes?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U126	We want to rule this out at board and board level. For this reason, different conditions have been included for the members of the Governing Council. We do not want to exclude this from the committees. The business interest is, first of all, legitimate, and there is nothing wrong with the nature of the business interest. The question is that expertise must balance it. Secondly, people who have a business interest in this area generally also have expertise in this area, which is entirely natural. That's what we really want. As a result, there are different institutions represented in these committees, including private medical institutions, so that we can actually make balanced decisions on the financing of treatment.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U127	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U128	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I consider it very reasonable that the number of members of the Board of the Health Insurance Fund will be reduced. Similarly, it is very reasonable that it now includes the Chairman of the Special Committee on State Budget Control. But in my mind, the fact that no one from the Social Affairs Committee, such as the Chairman, is meant to be there is a little bit of uncertainty. After all, the Committee on Social Affairs is dealing directly with all these issues. For what reason is the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee excluded?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U129	Thank you. Purely because of the logic of the social partnership. My first goal was for employers, insurers, insured persons and representatives of the state to be equal, just as the unemployment fund has: 2 : 2 : 2. The government considered it important that there should also be a representative of the opposition. We negotiated it with our partners. Then this model would be basically 3 : 2 : 2, but since one has a representative of the opposition and partners have more votes on two than the government alone, it was considered essentially acceptable. I wouldn't dare displace this balance any more, I respect social partnership very much. As a matter of fact, it is by its nature, of course, the work of the Health Insurance Fund, what the Health Insurance Fund does, and also the work of the Health Insurance Fund Board and the management work is, of course, the task of the executive authority, it is not a legislative task when it comes to speaking in real terms of functions. Why have the legislator's representatives been there? I do not think that this is bad, it guarantees wider support for the health insurance system, which is in itself good in a parliamentary country, I think. But it's been a government choice. That's how much I can justify it. The Riigikogu can discuss this.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U130	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U131	Thank you. I will continue with this question. After all, our governments are also changing and changing the chairmen of committees; they are once in a political party, once in a second, they are in opposition or coalition. What happens if, at some point, the Riigikogu becomes Chairman of the Special Committee on State Budget Control, not of the opposition, but of the coalition? In that case, we should redefine and reform this law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U132	The government cannot, of course, dictate to the legislative authority, who is elected head of one committee or another, but it has been a parliamentary practice to date But, of course, purely formal, it is possible that this will not be the case in the future. These are the questions that the Riigikogu must consider. This is the government's proposal on how to solve this issue, but the Riigikogu is certainly the right place to discuss who is the right person to represent the legislative power of the Health Insurance Board.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U133	Thank you very much, Minister. No further questions for you. Maris Lauri, Member of the Social Affairs Committee, will inform us about the procedure and debate of the commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U134	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Committee on Social Affairs discussed this draft at its meeting on 19 March. The draft was introduced by the Minister and was also attended by Ülle Jordan, Head Specialist of the Health System Development Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs. To begin with, the minister presented the draft. I won't say it again, you heard it already. The questions of the members of the Commission followed the Minister. I'm going to put them in a slightly different order than they were. One question concerned the requirements imposed on the members of the Council, namely the existence of knowledge and an impeccable reputation. It's an estimated decision, isn't it? The answer was that three people are in office in the Council and, therefore, they are expected to meet the requirement of having the necessary knowledge and sound reputation. Four members are appointed by the government and, if there is reason to doubt their integrity as to their reputation or knowledge, they should not be named by the government. One question concerned the fact that there is no person with medical knowledge in the board of the Health Insurance Fund after the changes and that the Council will take decisions in such a way that knowledge of medicine is held by the board and permanent committees. Answer: This has been discussed with the Confederation of Employers and they had an interest in becoming a member rather than a person with financial knowledge, in order to ensure greater competence within the board to evaluate the work of the Executive Board from a financial point of view. There isn't much of that capacity right now. The third question also touched on the subject, which was recently under discussion here, that if there are currently several members of the Social Affairs Committee in the Health Insurance Fund Council, none of them will be there after the change. The reply essentially reiterated the Minister's statement that, according to the new model, the Governing Council should play a key role in managing a financial institution, and this role is better carried out by the Special Committee on State Budget Control. However, the Minister also claimed that he was open to discussing the issue. One question also touched on the issue that has already been discussed in this Chamber, as to why one representative has been elected to the Chamber of People with Disabilities. In reply, the Minister said that there are several organisations in Estonia that should represent patients by name, but the experience of the Ministry of Social Affairs has unfortunately been that it is very difficult to call them guardians of the so-called interests of the Estonian patient population. In everyday practice, the House of People with Disabilities has been the best partner capable of providing input in the strongest, most argumentative way and more clearly. One question was also about the setting up of committees and their independence. The Minister explained that an advisory health service list committee would be set up under the provision of the Health Insurance Act. The Government shall, by means of a regulation, lay down the rules of procedure and the procedure for the establishment of the Commission and for issuing opinions. The Health Insurance Fund Board has already set up a committee to advise the Health Insurance Fund on strategic development issues, consisting of different health actors. It is expected that and the agreement has been that the Council will also have a list of health services that will go to the board. If there is a point of dispute where the Bureau does not agree with the Commission's proposal, the Bureau must state the reasons and the Council can, in principle, amend the decision. The sixth question concerned the fact that if the system based on the logic of the insurance undertaking changes in the future against the State Medical Management Department, if it still has competence in the management structure of the insurance undertaking's logic. The Minister replied that in his view it would not be reasonable to abandon a single system of financing health care with a fixed public income base. Experience in other countries shows that this would lead to a health system failure. It is certainly appropriate to discuss who, what and how is insured, and whether the insurance is made by the person himself from his own social tax, or whether the state insures certain people, if so, which people, on what grounds, etc. The Minister did not rule out that there could be more insurance bases and could be extended in the future. The Commission then took decisions. Firstly, it was decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 4 April. Secondly, it was decided to propose the termination of the first reading. Thirdly, it was decided to propose a deadline of 10 working days for the submission of amendments. Fourthly, it was decided to appoint a member of the Commission who is here before you. The decisions were made in consensus, but Monika Haukanõm did not take part in the vote, as she is the chairman of the board of the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U135	The first question to the rapporteur is put by Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U136	Good manager! Good waitress! I didn't get it. I heard they asked why doctors and specialists should no longer be admitted to the council or why it doesn't matter anymore, but I didn't get a good answer. Is it that the doctors are no longer on the new council of the Health Insurance Fund? Is it some general trend that such councils have no place for professionals to have only financialists and such?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U137	Thank you! Well, it would certainly have been better to put this question to the Minister. I took stock of what happened in the Commission. But it can be said that according to this draft, the organisations and people with medical knowledge will be represented in the permanent advisory committees, in the committee already set up to advise on strategic issues, as well as in the Commission's list of health services. In addition, the Committee on Medicinal Products is also involved in this; in the past, pharmaceutical matters were covered by the Ministry; now they are covered by the Health Insurance Fund. So this competence shouldn't be lost. That's it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U138	Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U139	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I heard that the Commission was discussing, or even discussing, this draft law, that there could be more people in the Council who are financially strong and competent. Was it foreseen that there could be more of them in the Council, so that the entire funding system would be stronger and more expert? But as a strong financial scientist, could the Health Insurance Fund get any kind of consultation from those who are competent and very strong in financial matters and, with their proposals, would strengthen the nature of the whole health insurance fund?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U140	Thank you! The Minister introduced this draft and this aspect of financial knowledge exactly as he did in this Chamber. It's like I can't add anything to that. But I myself have been a member of the board of the Health Insurance Fund twice, once as a minister, once as a representative of the Riigikogu, and I can say that it must be borne in mind that it is still a very large part of the financial institution by nature, it is an insurance institution and there is certainly a need for the strength or prevalisation of financial knowledge, otherwise it may be difficult to make decisions. On the basis of the basis of the current establishment of the Health Insurance Fund, it is inevitably the case that there is not much of this financial knowledge, most of the members may not have it. But there are representatives of different interest groups, so they have different knowledge.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U141	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Eiki Nestor, about the negotiations? Well, that's what I'm about to open up, you got ahead of time. It happens. Please, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U142	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! I feel obliged to speak on this matter. First of all, I think the bill makes sense. The current regime has been in place for a long time, and it is a miracle that he has lasted so long. But I can probably say a few things here in clearer Estonian than the minister who did it in a very polite way. When the Health Insurance Board was born, there was a law and there is also a sentence in the current law, which is briefly as follows. The members of the Council are appointed by the Government of the Republic on the basis of proposals from certain interest groups, the government having the right not to appoint people who might be suspected of having a conflict of interest. This right has been exercised by one government once, and I was a member of that government myself. This was the first health fund council to which the Government of the Republic left one member unnamed. It was a very good and wonderful health manager, a doctor, a friend of mine who had to be personally apologized. He understood that in order to avoid conflicts of interest, he would not be appointed to the Council. But the power alliances are changing, and during the later power alliances, different people arrived through different interest groups. I may be helping colleagues to understand that it is the task of the Council to look at a person from the time he is in his mother's belly until his last day, all of his health, and to look at the whole of Estonia, where the interests of Tallinn or Tartu, for example, cannot be prevalised, I do not know, the interests of surgeons over the interests of pulmonary doctors, the interests of pediatricians over the interests of women doctors, there can be no prevalence for any interests other than those of health care and access to health services. In order to avoid this conflict of interest, I personally went through all the NGOs at the time, because it was also the first time that the state had brought them into the country's administration and responsibility through one council, and I asked them not to present candidates with a conflict of interest. Later governments did not exercise this right and called it a number of good people who, unfortunately, developed this conflict. This was due to the inevitability of the Minister to transfer his powers to the Governing Board in order to avoid conflicts of interest. At that time, too, the expertise of stakeholders and their knowledge are not underestimated. They needed to be involved in any case. But then it was a mistake in this bill that it is now very well solved, that we failed to write it into the law at the time, we could not foresee that it should also be described by law. This remained the decision of the Health Insurance Board, and the board then worked with stakeholders who are very professional and knowledgeable in healthcare. In my opinion, the choice made by the Government of the Republic is very simple. He has taken two representatives of the so-called "instances," who have been able to avoid this conflict of interest for more than 15 years, i.e. to do professional work. Because the patients' association, you see, can do the same... I'm asking for an extra minute, just in case!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U143	Yeah, please, three!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U144	When our basic health document, the Health Insurance Act, was discussed here, in addition to well-known patient associations in Estonia, another one suddenly appeared. Very fierce, very eloquent. They did not like a section of the Health Insurance Act and its section on the basis of their own interpretation, which was essentially aimed at such a fair play in relations with pharmaceutical sellers, made it clear to the public that the Minister of Social Affairs responsible for Health violated the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia and, above all, the anti-human type. It later became apparent that this patient association was formed by lawyers from a law firm and that this law firm represented the interests of a large pharmaceutical manufacturer in Estonia. It is also the way to form an association and name it the Patient Association. So I believe that this choice made today, essentially on the basis of experience, with regard to the representation of insured persons, has been done sensibly by the government. I also believe that the Riigikogu is so strong today, it is so experienced in these years, and it understands that the opposition must always be represented in this council. That's the most reasonable way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U145	No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 602. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft at 5.15 p.m. on 18 April.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U146	The eighth item is the first reading of the draft Act amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity and the Law on tobacco initiated by the Government of the Republic. Mr Tõniste, Secretary of Finance of the speech chair, please report. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U147	Good manager! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! It is extremely sad to be here before you when we no longer have a good colleague, Andres, who really excelled in his goodwill, positivity and knowledge. I came here to present a draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity and tobacco law. Its main objective is to increase the competitiveness of Estonian companies in the e-intensive processing industry or information activities sector, enabling them to consume electricity subject to preferential excise duty rates. The preferential excise duty rate will be EUR 0,5 per megawatt-hour instead of the usual EUR 4,47. Estonian industrial companies are at a disadvantage compared to competitors in neighbouring countries, as no distinctions have been applied to production with a high degree of electrointensity in Estonia. This hampers the expansion of already active entrepreneurs and new direct investments in Estonia. The implementation of these differences would allow energy costs to be reduced and international competitiveness to be increased. Reliefs for energy intensive production are common in the European Union. Such mitigation measures have been introduced, for example, in Germany, Denmark, Sweden and Finland. According to the draft, an undertaking in the processing industry or in the information sector must meet two essential conditions in order to obtain a preferential excise duty rate. First, the company's energy management system must be proven to be effective and comply with ISO 50001. The State does not wish to grant an advantage to undertakings that waste electricity. Secondly, the company's costs of electricity, either in the previous financial year or on the basis of the forecast for the following 12 calendar months, must amount to at least 20% of the value added produced or forecasted. The calculation of electrointensity and the underlying data shall be verified by an independent sworn auditor. EBS is entitled to consume electricity at preferential excise duty rates or to obtain an exemption from excise duty on energy from the system operator, issued by the tax authority. This authorisation is already being applied in the administration of a number of excise exemptions. In particular, the directive on energy taxation in the European Union gives rise to a number of mandatory exemptions for Member States. The exemption from excise duty on energy shall be granted without a time limit provided that the undertaking complies with the reporting obligations and other requirements laid down in the draft. The preferential duty rate may concern some 240 undertakings. In practice, there will certainly not be such a large number of applicants for an energy tax exemption in the first few years, as operators have only just started to adapt their energy management system to the above-mentioned standards. Rather, we are forecasting a preferential excise duty rate for applicants per year from 2019 to 2020 10 to 20. In view of the expectations of EEIs to consume electricity already in 2018 at a preferential excise duty rate, a partial refund of electricity excise duty will be applied on consumption in 2018, in the case of an exemption from excise duty on energy issued in 2019. The holders of an authorisation for exemption from excise duty on energy issued from January 2020 shall not be entitled to recover excise duty on electricity already consumed. As the regulation enters into force, the following amounts are expected to remain in the state budget: EUR 3 million in 2019 and almost EUR 1.8 million per year from 2020. The higher amount in 2019 results mainly from the right for EEIs to apply for a partial refund of excise duty on electricity consumed at the standard excise duty rate in 2018. Other changes will also be made to the draft. Adding to the possibilities of denatured alcohol, i.e. rendering tobacco unfit for drinking, applying the same rate of excise duty as smoking tobacco (this ensures that the rate of excise duty on a solid substitute for tobacco is changed in line with the rate of excise duty on smoking tobacco laid down in the draft until 2020), amending the Tobacco Act and correcting the reference errors in Paragraph 6 (2) of the Act. The law is designed to enter into force in two stages. The general date of entry into force of the Act is 1 January 2019. Paragraphs 1, 2, 6, 7 and 10 of § 1 of the Bill and the amendment to the Tobacco Act provided for in § 2 of the Bill shall enter into force from 1 July 2018. The implementation of these amendments does not require the undertaking or the tax authorities to undertake preparatory activities, so it is appropriate to implement them as soon as possible. These are the main changes to the draft under discussion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U148	The round of questions will be opened by Urve Tiidus. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U149	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. In your presentation of the bill, you said such a sentence that the lack of preferential excise duty hinders large direct investments in Estonia. Could you expand that statement a little bit, please? Do you have any idea who has failed to invest directly? What could be estimated to be the volume of direct investments that have not been made due to the lack of preferential excise duties?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U150	Thank you. It is known that our electricity prices are high compared to other countries, and it certainly does not encourage investments in Estonia. Several companies have said, at least in this way, that if the price of electricity were to be more favourable, they would make better investments in Estonia or expand their business. One concrete example is Estonian Cell.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U151	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U152	Good manager! Good minister! If electricity consumes more than one fifth of the value added, it is possible to obtain this preferential excise duty. There are 240 such companies. But, as I understand it, you want to support the producers of alcohol and tobacco in particular. Who are those who could get this preferential excise duty, given the title of the bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U153	Thank you. This title may be misleading here. The main direction is that this draft concerns companies in the e-intensive processing industry or information sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U154	Aivar Sõerd.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U155	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, I remember quite clearly, I think I am not mistaken that while the Centre Party was in opposition, they fought quite hard for it in this Chamber of the Riigikogu and also started drafts to lower electricity excise duties paid by all final consumers, individuals. Now, in a situation where the increase in the consumer price index is unprecedented and the price increases are putting people in their pockets, did a minister in the Central Party, one of your coalition partners, come up with such a proposal in government discussions to lower electricity excise duties on all consumers?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U156	Thank you. I'm gonna roll back a little bit in my memory. I think these discussions were in this room when the price of electricity went 'over' to the stock market. Then there was a great fear that the price of electricity would increase in a cosmic way. In this context, the idea was to lower the price of electricity. Today, when these fears are actually down, the price is relatively stable, the price of electricity has not increased as much as the people were intimidated, at least I have not heard in the office that the subject was on the table.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U157	Peter Ernits, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U158	Good manager! Good minister! You said that this draft does not concern, like, alcohol and tobacco companies or production, but the title of the draft is 'the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity and the Act on amendments to the Law on tobacco'. Why, then, such a misleading title?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U159	Thank you. In fact, its focus is mainly on e-intensive companies, but it concerns tobacco excise, precisely in the context that we are in principle now linking the rate of excise duty on the solid substitute tobacco to the rate of excise duty on smoking tobacco. When the accent changes, it changes both.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U160	Sven Sester.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U161	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress, first of all, I welcome the first reading of this bill. I think it's very reasonable that it's on the table today. Looking back in history, we see that making differences and thus increasing Estonia's competitiveness has been a relatively big taboo in the past, and there was no such opportunity for years. In this sense, praise is given to the government that has been prepared to increase Estonia's competitiveness. Here's my second, basically a 'continuation' question. I know that the government has discussed the possible specificity of gas excise duties on such energy-intensive companies. Perhaps you can enlighten me how far it is now? I know that Europe was also asked for'responsibility feedback' on state aid. Has it come or hasn't it? What might be the next thought? This is also a burden on the state budget, on the one hand, but on the other, it will certainly increase our competitiveness.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U162	Thank you. Indeed, a similar measure to reduce gas excise duty has been under discussion and the opinion of the European Commission was also sought with regard to the authorisation of State aid. The answer was positive in the sense that we can move forward. Now the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications is working on coming to the office and taking completely concrete steps.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U163	Urve Tiidus, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U164	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. I listened to you very carefully all the time, but one question did remain. You said that this bill would grant excise relief to companies with a high electricity demand, and for once you mentioned the processing of information. Let me get this straight, or did I get this completely wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U165	Thank you. Yeah, that's where the information companies go.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U166	Minister, thank you. No further questions for you. The presentation of the commission will be made by Mikhail Stalnukhin, Chairman of the Monetary Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U167	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, This draft law was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 5 March, and was accepted on 6 March. On 20 March, the Committee on Monetary Affairs prepared a first reading at its regular meeting. Eight members of the Commission were present. The presentation was made by Minister of Finance Toomas Tõniste. Marek Uusküla, Head of the Customs and Excise Policy Department, and Mr Toelumes, Chief Specialist of the same department, were also present from the Ministry of Finance. The debate in the Commission focused specifically on electricity excise duties. No questions were raised regarding the denaturation of alcohol or the solid substitute for tobacco. What was said in the Commission? The question was asked about the extent to which this policy has spread in the countries of the European Union. The answer was that it is used in all the old EU countries, with the difference sometimes drastic. This week we were sent a table containing factual information. I'd say looking at Danish data would surprise anyone. They have an excise duty of EUR 122 and 20 cents for private consumers, while the difference is only 52 cents for commercial consumers • 240 times for business consumers. They asked if there was a limit to the minimum excise duty. The answer was that it must not be less than 50 cents in accordance with the euro rules. They asked whether regional policy could be made with this excise duty. The answer was that certainly yes, Sweden uses it. In Sweden, the domestic consumer tariff is 30.75, but in the northern regions, where use is higher and access is harder, it is almost a third lower. There was a question, as here today, about these 240 companies, well, you heard the answer to the question of whether this change would increase investment. The answer was somewhat different in the sense that currently existing companies could, first and foremost, speed up investment, but in order for us to be really competitive, the advisers of the Ministry of Finance said that this is a reference to the association of large companies, we should reduce the megawatt price by about EUR 12. In addition to Urve Tiidu, I say that in a neighbouring country of Finland, the price of electricity is 50,2 if I am not mistaken and I am not mistaken, in Sweden, 39.7, while in the near future we will have 65.5 euros. So the renewable energy charge and the grid charge, these are the two things that could still be reviewed in order to lower the price of electricity. Am I forgetting something? I haven't forgotten. I would like to mention one more question that sounded in the Commission: why didn't the draft workout plan be drawn up in the preparation of the draft? The answer was that the criteria gave the government the opportunity to consider this procedure to be urgent. Then four decisions were taken. Three were adopted by consensus: to ask the Bureau to put this issue on the plenary agenda by today's plenary session, 4 April, to appoint the chairman of the committee as rapporteur and to propose that the deadline for tabling amendments be 10 days, 18 April at 5.15 p.m. These were consensual decisions. We voted on one decision, the result of the first reading. Proposal to terminate first reading: 5 for, 0 against and 3 abstentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U168	Thank you very much for the waitress. There are no questions for you. If I so wish, I will open negotiations for discussion of the general principles of the draft law. Please, on behalf of the Group of the Sven Sester Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U169	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, who have stayed in this Chamber! On behalf of the IRL Group, I welcome the entry of this bill into the Riigikogu. We support it in every way. I think that if this bill is adopted as a law at one point, Estonia's competitiveness will increase in the end. I think that we have quietly, but firmly broken certain taboos that have existed over time and which have perhaps characterised an earlier period when it was said that no distinction should be made. I think it is important to always consider how this distinction contributes to the development of one or the other topic or to policy making in Estonia. I think, looking back, too, from the distinction made to employers in the taxation of employees' health expenditures, to the distinction now being made for e-intensive companies, these are the kind of distinctions that ultimately help our own Estonian entrepreneurs. The true story, as the Chairman of the Monetary Commission mentioned, when we look at neighbouring countries, we see that Estonia has not actually been competitive. One might say that with this amendment we will also improve our competitiveness, but we certainly cannot say today, looking at neighbouring countries, that we have gone ahead of them in electricity taxation, but that is unfortunately not. But I believe this bill is one of the first swallows. This issue was intended for the Minister of Finance and, in fact, for the entire government, to think about possible steps that will help to increase the competitiveness of our companies and reduce their specific costs, thinking specifically of energy-intensive companies. I think that maybe this could include steps designed for the possible specificity of gas excise duties, but why not in the future, given the possibilities of our budget, also review the issue of network charges, etc. I think this field of work is wide where we need to operate, but at least we have brought the first swallow into this hall, and that is very welcome. So we certainly support the urgent procedure for this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U170	Mikhail Stalnukhin speaks on behalf of the Group of the Estonian Centre Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U171	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I couldn't not talk about it. Our day of sitting today started with it, and it's probably over. We've lost our comrade. I worked with him at the REKK and the Committee on Monetary Affairs for three years. I had a great deal of sympathy for Andres Ammas. He was smart, honest in his views, a calm man who didn't talk nonsense. All of us who worked with him know that. It's a huge loss for us. I want to express my condolences to the Andres family on behalf of the Centre Party Group and myself personally. It really was a huge blow this morning when I heard the news. I think men like that are remembered much longer than they live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-04_U172	Thank you, colleague. These words are easy and yet difficult to accept. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 595. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft at 5.15 p.m. on 18 April. Ladies and gentlemen, today's session is closed. Let's hope tomorrow brings us better news. I'll see you at 10:00. Closure of the sitting at 15.49 p.m.
