ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-14_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the session of the 18th working week of the VII plenary session on Thursday. Dear Riigikogu, today's date is one of the saddest and most serious days of our history. I propose that the victims of the June deportation be remembered with silence. [[The silence of grief.]] Thank you. And now, who has to hand over any drafts or inquiries? George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-14_U2	Mr President of the sitting! I'll report an inquiry to Home Secretary Anvelt. It has been signed by members of the Free Party Group. The topic is preparation for the Riigikogu elections next spring. We have been discussing this issue in this Chamber, and Anvelt has benefited from it in earlier times. The problem is that one thing is still not clear at this point. In fact, does this decision of the government coalition that the electoral circles are not being tried to change, even though they de facto changed significantly as a result of the merger of rural municipalities, not lead us to a technical and political disaster? The disaster could be, for example, that the number of Virumaa mandates would fall to four and Harjumaa to its fourteen, which would probably be the world's largest kind of crime. And secondly, as far as we know, the population register is still struggling with the so-called attachment of people to electoral lists. We are asking this question that, in the autumn, when we come back together, we should be able to find out quickly from Mr Anvelt what the state of affairs is and what the Ministry of the Interior has done in this area.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-14_U3	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-14_U4	Thank you, good Chairman! Good coworkers! Eight MPs will initiate a draft law amending the language law. These are Tarmo Kruusimäe, Priit Sibul, Jaak Madison, Henn Põlluaas, Madis Milling, Igor Gräzin, Jaanus Karilaid and Märt Sults. We do not think that we have a good state language in Estonia. There's no reason to be content and wallow in it. We believe that the maximum amount of EUR 640 laid down in today's language law has been lost in time. We want the Language Inspectorate to be able to do a better job to care for our national language. Thank you. I hope you will support the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-14_U5	Raivo Time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-14_U6	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Today, I'm going to put in a bill that will eliminate one of the historic injustices. When the Republic of Estonia was restored, security in the country had to be established in addition to taking political decisions and building up state life in other ways. Major crime had to be eradicated, border guards had to be built that would be able to protect national borders, armed forces had to be built to provide military protection to the country. Many men and women took the initiative to work on it, but at some age they had to leave the service and retire. Life and the economy are still making their twists. When the recession came, the Government of the Republic decided to reduce the civil service grade wage by 8% and the pensions of these people were equally lower. At some point the legal order changed again, pensions were decoupled from grades and were indexed. The veterans I just told you about were left at the door. Their pensions were no longer adjusted; they have this reduced level of pay as a basis for indexing the total pension. I think it's fair to set justice to these patriots, these veterans, and to base their pension on a situation that was before the recession. That is why I am signing a bill signed by 34 members of the Riigikogu. One signature is digital, it's Johannes Kerd's, who isn't here today. The draft has been signed by representatives of all six political groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-14_U7	So much more so that Raivo Time passed the bill, not in. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-14_U8	Mr. Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! On behalf of nine MPs, the majority of whom are representatives of the Free Party Group, but are also members of the special anti-corruption committee of the opposition, I would like to refer the matter to the Minister for Justice. This concerns a long-standing promise that has been included in the various discussions that we have held in the Special Committee on Corruption over time. The topic has also been discussed in Riigikogu Question Time, where the Prime Minister himself has promised that this will come by the end of 2018. In addition, it is included in the Anti-Corruption Strategy and in several plans of the Ministry of Justice. We are talking about launching such a system on the public money portal, where local government transactions, including transaction partners, would be monitored at all times. This has been said to be a very important anti-corruption measure. However, when I leave the Committee on Corruption, I have a feeling that this issue is open. In particular, this impression has arisen because we have started to get far more unsavory answers from representatives of both the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Finance. It is feared that the system will not be completed by the end of this year, we have been talking about 2021. We want to know from the Minister of Justice how it really is and what is preventing such a system from being implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-14_U9	I have adopted two drafts and two inquiries. We will proceed on the basis of the Home and Working Procedures Act. Can I have your attention, please? I have a lot of messages for you. Firstly, today, after the plenary session, the founding meeting of the Support Group Smoke-free Estonia will take place in this Chamber, the convener is Tarmo Kruusimäe. Secondly, Riigikogu member Igor Gräzin, who is the president of the Estonian-Russian parliamentary group, asks the members of the parliamentary group to stay in the Chamber today after the end of the sitting. Thirdly, I ask both Tarmo Kruusimäe and Igor Gräzin to act very quickly, because the Society of Tammsaare and Vilde Friends invites us today to our exhibition hall in connection with the reissue of the Volumes of Truth and Justice. This event will begin five minutes after the end of the sitting. If anyone else doesn't know where the show is, I'll tell them straight from here on the second floor. Now all the messages have been handed over and we're going to have a presence check. 77 members of the Riigikogu are present.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-14_U10	Today's agenda includes the third reading of the draft law amending the Defence Forces Service Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. Mart Helme on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-14_U11	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, We are in a situation where we have joined the Riigikogu, such as Leo Kunnas in his Estonian Day Paper or Delfis which one to take now? In the article published, "Turquoise Road. " And this is the path of turbo-processes we have embarked on for relatively incomprehensible reasons, rather for very incomprehensible reasons. It is completely incomprehensible to us why this bill needs to be dealt with in two readings within one week. It is also incomprehensible to us what vermin have put on the table in the Republic of Estonia the legislative changes contained in this draft. I have no sense or right to try to be smarter than the reserve colonel Leo Kunnas, who has long been in active service, who, very clearly and logically, presents all the risks that these legislative changes bring with them in the Defence Forces. It is incomprehensible why we want the defence forces to be served by people who have a schizophrenic situation in terms of doing business and serving the state, who may become orbitable if they go bankrupt and become manipulative. How is it conceivable that we tell young men in the Defence Service basically that when you get 60 and can't do it anymore, you were stupid to go into the Defence Forces when you were young? If we want our defence forces not to be a group of schizophrenic officers and elderly people in conflict of interest, we cannot support this bill. Once again, it is completely incomprehensible to me and to our group as a whole what kind of pests, what kind of fighters of the defence capabilities of the Estonian state have once again put their hands into play. We are categorically opposed to such national defence nonsense. I'm sorry I'm so strong! But there's no other way to characterize it. We're seriously knocking on everyone's heart: respectables, think ahead! There are few things that are absolutely certain in this world. One absolutely certain thing is that we all grow old and die. And the defence forces will not escape this process. Think hard before you act like sacks of flour and press the green button, which will have very negative consequences for Estonia's defence capabilities over very long years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-14_U12	I'm closing the negotiations. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on draft 447. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Defence Forces Service Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic, 447. Please take a stand and vote. There are 53 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the draft, against 13, with 2 abstentions. The Act on the Amendment of the Defence Forces Service Act and other Acts initiated by the Government of the Republic has been passed. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 10:18 a.m.
