ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U1	Hello, power! Question Time. Incoming check, please! 39 members of the Riigikogu are in Question Time. Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Minister of Social Protection Kaia Iva and Minister of Foreign Affairs Sven Mikser are present. I will give you an opportunity to ask you a more specific question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U2	The first answer is Prime Minister Jüri Ratas and the first questioner Jürgen Ligi. Please, Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U3	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister! Your team has started changing very quickly. I don't know if these things are connected, but more quickly your views change. The taxes are first seven at a time, then they will be withdrawn, then they will be postponed and then part will be introduced. Now you're talking about tax truce. What is even more interesting, however, is what you have said about budgetary policy. We have been telling you here for a year and a half that fiscal policy must not be selfish; it must be based on the economic cycle. You talked until recently about how the economy needs to be stimulated and you have important strategic things to do. Now all of a sudden, you're going to start pulling these strategic things off and talking about the balance of the budget. Even the most important thing, the city hall, which was supposed to make the economy flourish, has now been pulled down. Tell me what happened in the meantime. Have you read any books or what's happened?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U4	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good Riigikogu! Good questioner, thank you for your question. I am still of the opinion that this economic growth, which was several and several years in Estonia, cannot satisfy Estonian society. I think that growth, which is 1% or 1,5% or 2%, is not feasible for Estonia. A higher percentage is acceptable. In any case, Estonia's entrepreneurship and entrepreneurs must be acknowledged here that very good work has been done. The risks taken by entrepreneurs today show that economic growth may be close to 5% even in Estonia. Whether it is our daily or annual growth, it is a matter of its own. It is clear that when a country's budget strategy is made, rules must always be used. One of the rules on which the country's budgetary strategy is certainly based is the economic context at a certain point in time with regard to the GDP gap, whether it is negative or positive. What we are seeing now is that the economy is doing well, but we certainly cannot say that we can rest now. On the contrary, I think that economic growth must be sustainable and stable, and it must reach as many people as possible in Estonia. True, one indicator was, when we made the last national budget strategy, to reduce public activity or resources on the market in order to reduce the positive side of the GDP gap. I think that all kinds of dogmas or cutting into stone are not appropriate in Estonian politics. We need to look at how the market and economics behave and how decisions are made. It is said that sometimes it is right to take one step backwards in order to move two forwards. That means further analysis and debate. Your claim to have the city hall written out of its plans is completely wrong. The city hall is included in the country's budget strategy for 2020, 2021 and 2022.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U5	Jürgen Ligi, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U6	Thank you. I don't know what you think the GDP gap is, but the GDP gap is exactly the same as it was a year ago, but it's gonna fall next year. This means that next year there would be another reason to talk about how investment is lacking and what needs to be given up. In making this year's budget, you talked about your growth picking up, although the economy was growing beyond its potential. They were talking about putting out the fire with gasoline, changing the rules of self-interest. I ask you again: what has changed? The economic situation has not changed. At the time, the economy was growing very fast, but you kept throwing the fire down and saying it needed to be speeded up. What's happened in the meantime?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U7	Thank you. I think that this economic situation, which was one and a half years and more ago, has changed very strongly. Seriously, I think it's changed. The attitude has also changed. If it was always thought that we could have such a sustainable 1% or 1.5% or a sustainable decline, then it is certainly the level of ambition that the current government does not agree with. The fact that the government must be a good partner for our business and economic sectors is, in my view, important. What's changed? That the coalition has changed since the end of 2016. I think it's been the right direction and step. Indeed, some tax policy changes have also been made during this period. And, for example, the increase in excise duty on diesel, scheduled for the beginning of this year, was canceled. The increase in excise duty on strong alcohol, which had already been raised by the previous government, was reduced. Now we know, during the discussions on the country's budget strategy, that the increase in alcohol duty for the following year has been abandoned at all. In addition, certain changes have been made in the area of VAT concerning accommodation establishments. What else has changed? I think that very many of the issues relevant to the Estonian economy have either already been resolved or have been resolved. If, for example, we take wage-level education policy, I think that this is an important step in our economic structure that teachers' pay is rising. It has changed that investments in certain sites are important for the current coalition. For example, I would like to bring in rental homes and additional infrastructure investments. I think it is important that we support our people and local authorities in improving the economic situation. So a lot of things have changed, a good questioner, who has already come to leave this Riigikogu hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U8	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U9	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good Prime Minister! At the beginning of the year, members of the government association promised to improve the higher taxation of working pensioners. Does the country's budgetary strategy, which you have now reached a substantive agreement, include an amendment to restore a situation where working pensioners have the opportunity to count the tax-free rate on both pensions and wages? Does the country's budgetary strategy agreed by the government for the next four years provide that this situation will be changed, as you promised, where working pensioners will be treated unfairly compared to the rest of the working people?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U10	Thank you. In my opinion, the system that the current government has put into effect when you talk about the increase in the tax-free minimum and its change has given the Estonian society very important progress. If you are talking about older people who work, I understand that your confusing question is related to what is the income of the elderly, i.e. pension plus salary, then this system has become the same, uniform for everyone. It is true that according to the latest data given to me by the Social Insurance Board, there are older people who work and earn more than 1352 euros or more than 2100 euros in their income, and we also have 6.5% in Estonian society. Last year's data on the start of this year's data is still on the rise, indicating that older people who work and receive higher incomes really need to contribute more to society. In addition, over 40% of pensioners have won a new tax-free minimum, and the circa 50% are elderly people whose income remains the same if we only take into account the tax-free minimum. If we count on certain other contributions in this regard financially, such as child support and also a reduction in bureaucracy, it has actually given thousands of pensioners a higher income in Estonia since the beginning of this year. When you talk about older people who work, so many go to the education sector, culture or medical sector and ask what has been done in these sectors, they are entitled to raise wages. The minimum wage for teachers will rise next year, as well as the minimum wage for cultural workers and those working in social welfare will rise by 12%.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U11	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U12	Next, Minister for Social Protection Kaia Iva will answer, asking Monika Haukanõm. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U13	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Disabled children should be under the special care of the state and local government. When such a child is born into the family, the family life is like on the roller coaster, and we often expect their parents to have skills that they have never encountered before. My question concerns the issue of a guardian certificate for families or mothers with children under 16 years of age. You know you can issue a carer's certificate if you are an adult. However, we often require a carer's certificate from these people, for example, in order to get health insurance or go to an unemployment fund, to cancel a student loan, to apply for an ID card free of charge, etc. They have also received such answers: still talk to the municipality, maybe there is some way they can formalize you. Are you aware of this situation? This is how we direct the parents of children with disabilities to a health-free status, unemployment, but also to a poverty trap. If you are aware, what are you going to do about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U14	Thank you for this important question. There's a point of wisdom in it. Disabled children and persons with disabilities are under the special protection of the state and the municipality. It is probably also known to you that this year, the long-term care arrangements will be in place to bring these issues into a coherent framework and harmonise them across all local governments in Estonia. As far as children are concerned, the question is above all, as you said, that a parent is in a situation where he does not know exactly what he must do, where he must turn, and what help he may receive from one system or another. We are therefore planning to draw up a guide for the creation of family centres where a family, including the family of a disabled child, would receive one piece of information and assess, advise and direct the need for help to the right service would go to one place. The Ministry is currently working together with several municipalities, Viljandi is a good example here, but also Haapsalu and Saaremaa to create a model and specific guide for the family centre. We need to get so far that we can assess how such family centres can be launched in local governments, what legislative changes need to be made and what more needs to be done in the light of the issue you have raised. So I think we're moving on pretty fast with this. From there on, of course, the following questions are important: how this family can cope, what benefits are provided by the local government and which public sector, etc. As you probably have already read in the press, we have also found solutions here in the course of the country's budget strategy, which will certainly help such families to do much better next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U15	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U16	Thank you! Family centres are very nice and certainly necessary, but they do not reach every local government and probably not every family. I would like to touch on the second question. Families feel that too many expectations are placed on them and too many skills are required. This concerns aids and special procedure procedures. At the end of last year, you said: the system must be organised in such a way that people have access to tools and the rules and requirements of service providers are clear. When we talk about special procedures, we still assume too much from our parents. We expect him to take a medical certificate, two comparative quotes, add a rehabilitation plan to initiate a special procedure, if not, then we will make a rehabilitation plan, a disability certificate and a copy of the identity document and obtain a certificate from the recommended physical therapist or specialist. Then we have to wait for a special procedure and what we will achieve. Then you have to lodge a challenge and understand the two-page legal text that is in the dispute. It's a little too much for one parent who has to stay alive at the same time, work and do everything else.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U17	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U18	Thank you for this additional question. The first part of your question was that the family centers are nice, but they don't get to every local government, every child, every family. There's a statement in it that I don't agree with at all. In any case, this kind of family centers, whether structured in a bit of one way or another, must be in every local government in the future, precisely because they reach each family. It's important anyway. That is why we want to put together such a very universal and tried-through guide during the piloting process so that local authorities can also benefit from it and should not all start inventing a bicycle. As far as aids are concerned, here we have, indeed, just as in the case of rehabilitation services, the aim is for our rules to become more logical, humane and less bureaucratic. It's probably already known that last year we changed the procedure a lot in the rehabilitation service. We demand less and there is no need to draw up so many rehabilitation plans. We have cut red tape in this regard and we certainly want to lead this direction to aids. The amount of aid is, of course, quite large. This means that obviously we will not be able to get away with the special solutions, nor will they, but in any case we want to move towards cutting red tape. It is also important to see how much money the state has to provide for the financing of aid instruments. We know that this year we're probably in a small minus. We also put forward in the state budget negotiations the view that aid instruments, with specific rules and specific monitoring, would be cost-effective. This means that once we have the rules in place and we know how they work, we will no longer have to read the exact amount of the budget in a given year, but there is no risk of losing anyone at the end of the year.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U19	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U20	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! A very quick and concrete question after the previous answer: when do local governments have these support points? You mentioned that it would come to anything. However, my main question is that the Ministry has promised a faster service for those in need of assistance in 2016‐2017. You want to make it faster, so there is less bureaucracy. Now, from 1 February, restrictions have been imposed to obtain aids, you have closed the catalogue of certain products. How has it now met the objective of speeding up the delivery of aid? How much longer have the queues become?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U21	Thank you. First of all, your first question is when do local authorities set up these children's and family centres? Any specific municipality can answer that question. Our role and task is to create a model. Perhaps together with the progressive local authorities that have now joined this pilot, this model will be created and will allow local authorities to operate. As the resources provided by the state to families of children with deep and severe disabilities, which move through the local government and also through the SCA, are beautifully large, I believe that local authorities see that through such centrally coordinated centres, money can be better used, i.e. all health, social and educational services can be put together there. The other half of your question was about aids and whether, given the situation of families of children with disabilities, we have been able to meet their requests more quickly and with less bureaucracy. As I just said, we have been very much strengthened last year by the rehabilitation service. Now, the aids you referred to. On February 1, some ISO codes were closed. This means that for aids that are available in the ordinary course of trade and are not considered vital by the Social Insurance Board, there is currently a possibility to queue. Why is that? It is for the same reason that I described that, at the end of the year, no one would be at risk of losing any vital aids. However, we have really reduced bureaucracy. According to the regulation that I signed last year, many tools are now such as a physical therapist or family doctor for example. That means you don't have to go to a specialist anymore. Similarly, we have reduced the demand for recurrent evidence, and by this too, the situation of those in need has certainly become less bureaucratic.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U22	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U23	Prime Minister Jüri Ratas will now answer Martin Helme's question. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U24	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good Prime Minister! If I ask my question now, please understand that this is not about the desire to put the opposition away or about some cruelty, but we in this Chamber also feel responsible for the welfare of the Estonian state and the well-being of the Estonian people. If we look at your government, there have been nine ministers there in just over a year. It's a little tight, less than once a month, and lately, a minister falls out of a twist every week. We feel that we have reached a situation where your government is no longer capable of working. We're a little over nine months away from the election. How do you give us the assurance that Estonia will still be ruled for the next nine months and that more ministers will not be expelled from your government in the coming weeks or months?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U25	Thank you, good questioner! The assurance that this government will rule somehow, I will not give it to you. But the assurance that the government will rule well and hard, I will give it to you. I think it makes sense for the government to exist at all if it wants and is able to take decisions and solve various problems in Estonia. The best assurance that this government is truly ambitious and working and has a good spirit of cooperation shows, in my opinion, the country's budgetary strategy discussed at the end of last week and its adoption. I think that the fact that the EKRE and you, as Chairman of this group, are saying that you feel a sense of responsibility is already a pretty good sign of good political culture and cooperation. Now, with the budget strategy of the last country, we made a great deal of fundamental changes to Estonian society and to the people of Estonia. Since you asked how we can be sure, I will first say that by looking at today's economic forecasts, it is important that economic growth reaches as many people as possible in Estonia. It is known that we, say, in the public sector had quite a problem with internal security employees' salaries, incomes. Well, I believe you feel similarly responsible for the rescuers, for example. Savings raises the circa 20%, police raises the circa 10%. This includes the National Defence Academy and the Emergency Response Centre. As I said before, in social services, the wage increase is around 12%. I believe that we will now continue this debate with you on the next questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U26	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U27	Thank you. Thank you for the fluent talk points. If you look from this side of the hall, you can't see the will and the ability to make decisions. We have five items on the agenda for this week, and the previous weeks have been more or less the same. I do not, of course, agree that adopting a number of laws would show that we are doing an effective job, but as thin a agenda as in recent months as I think it has been before. But I'd come back to the government's credibility and ability to work. As we understand from the media, Minister Aab kept her caught to the police; she did not inform her colleagues or her boss for a month. How do you assess this behaviour from the point of view of political culture? Will he soon be rewarded for such a mistrust with a party seat?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U28	Thank you. In this sense, I share your views that, in my opinion, the one and only measure of the legislative assembly cannot under any circumstances be the number of laws or legislative amendments adopted in this honourable Chamber. I think that the yardstick is not quantity, but quality. In that sense, I agree with you. Now, in the case of Jaak Aab, the error is clear, and there is no other option but to resign from the Minister's office. Whether he's a minister or any other official, a person who's been drinking alcohol who has doubts about how he feels, can't drive a vehicle. Unfortunately, that's what the Minister did. He has passed the sentence, but he has also taken political responsibility, and I think he has done so very clearly and specifically. He has also made a statement to me, so I believe that in the coming weeks I will go to the President of the Republic with it. If you ask what happens to him next, Jaak Aab is not going to come to the Riigikogu, he did not stand as a candidate in previous elections. Given man's ability, qualities and knowledge, he certainly has them, whether in the social sphere, in the sphere of public administration or in the area of regional policy, I believe he is, as he said yesterday at the press conference, a free man on the labour market. If you're asking if we're now going to compete with the EKKRE and the Centre Party, who's making him an offer, it's theoretically possible, but I believe that Jaak will find a dignified application.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U29	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! However, I would come back to the issue of the government's ability to work and formulate my question like this. We see that you are a Centre Party with two smaller partners in the government, both of whom have very serious concerns about the long-term decline in their support in the public eye. Mr Ossinovski, who is still a minister, has also not hidden that he is going to raise his party's rating. This is exactly what the other party is doing, this is the IRL and its leader, Seeder. Do you realize that for both of them, one of the guarantees of increasing popularity is the confrontation of the Centre Party in their own government. Don't you think it's destructive and completely hampers the government's ability to work?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U31	Thank you, good questioner. I can also add, in answer to the previous questioner or your question, that the current government has now completed 90% of its action plan. This has certainly been the joint wish of three government partners. You want to reduce the social democrats or the IRL somehow. I think they do a very good job in government, both social democrats and the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance. They stand very clearly for their electorate, whether in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or in the Ministry of Social Affairs, whether in the Ministry of Defence, whether in the Ministry of Justice or in the Ministry of the Environment. I think the important decisions we have made will help these areas forward. Today, when I saw your questions, I thought I'd like to say: EKRE, you're very nice. You're like the House Chef from Astrid Lindgren's Karlsson stories. You will never miss the opportunity to scream and chastise with a loud voice. At the same time, Majasok was also a wonderful cook, and therefore, many people with whom he did not get along well were happy. I hope, however, that your bad mood will improve, and you will finally find your old boyfriend, Uncle Julius. [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U32	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U33	The next question is also for Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! I'm gonna keep going a little bit on the same subject, even though I don't want to get as much fun as Majasok. The problem is serious. The people say that the plan proposed by the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, the pouring of public money into public transport and the paying off of the ticket will not solve their problems. One of Urvaste's pensioners spoke very clearly: ticket money is not a problem; I want to go where and when I need to go. He put it together very well, I think. Mobility professionals have repeatedly pointed out that Samson's plan does not make people more comfortable. Your coalition partners from the Socialist Group have said that this is not the right place to target investment. It is certainly not necessary to deprive local authorities of their decision-making power and set the ticket price at zero euros. Similarly, Helir-Valdor Seeder, Chairman of the IRL, makes it clear that there is no agreement in the coalition on this issue and that nothing is broken unless an agreement is reached.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U35	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U36	Kadri Simson, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, on the other hand, continues to chop off free public transport. You are responsible for cooperation. Do you think that such a minister's jurisdiction to solo, to mislead voters, is right?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U37	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U38	Thank you. It's the government's handwriting, isn't it? How they want to organize and manage government. Do you, as you say, soloize.. I don't know if you're gonna produce examples here from any earlier times or if you're gonna find a joint? In any case, I think we need to find a common ground. This certainly cannot be said that the government coalition has not made efforts to make better, more operational use of public transport. Yes, it is. This year, more than 13 million more funding for public transport will be available, and more than 21 million will be available next year. Organisational steps have also been taken, public transport centres have been set up, and it is foreseen that a new pilot project in Saaremaa, for example, will test the service of driving sharing. If we continue to talk about public transport, both the possibilities of both the cheapening of public car fares up to zero and the tightening of routes should, in any case, be under discussion. It is true that we are still discussing how to resolve these issues before 1 July. There is nothing wrong with that, and we will certainly find a solution here. In addition, if we take the budget strategy of the last country, there were really important transport solutions between the Estonian big islands, between Virtsu and Kuivastu in relation to the third ferry. The connection between Kuressaare and Tallinn was also important for the residents of Saaremaa. And, of course, the important thing is that the Rye Channel should not arise in such a situation that it is not included anywhere in the budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U39	Yoko Alender, a more specific question. In one minute, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U40	Thank you for the fact that there is no deal! In the first speech of your term of office, you said here in the Riigikogu that there is no situation for you that is the right proposal, but from the wrong man. Will you stick to this and listen to these mobility professionals? If you are going to develop public transport, will you actually do so in the way that the advice of specialists makes it better and more effective for the people of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U41	Thank you. I am absolutely certain, even now, that we do not have any redundant ideas in Estonia to push off the table. When someone else says something, it has to be taken seriously, including the use of public transport. Once again, when it comes to the dilemma of free public transport versus the strengthening of lines, both alternatives must be under discussion. In any case, the most important thing is for public transport to become more accessible, operational and certainly cleaner. I think we need to move forward in this direction. You said I've said the wrong man can't do the right thing. I believe that this principle must definitely be changed in political culture. Any idea coming from this Riigikogu hall must be on the table very seriously. I'll give you an example of last week's briefing. I quote Mr Urmas Kruuse, a member of the Riigikogu, who asked: 'Does the Prime Minister know further about which areas of Estonia are not at all able to look at ETV+? After all, many operators do not offer ETV+ to their customers at all. Is the Prime Minister of the Republic concerned that Estonia's national television channels are not spreading? ' My answer to you is that the country's budget strategy provides for the same EUR 300000 for the next four years, so that ETV+ can spread across Estonia. I can give you another example. Urmas Kruuse has said in several briefings here in the Riigikogu that the issue of veterinary training at the University of Life Sciences must be resolved. I am pleased that the country's budget strategy provides for veterinary training at the University of Life Sciences for the next four years. Or we could take Aivar Sõerd. How much has he been talking about structural balance in this Question Time, last March 21st? I think this dialogue between the Riigikogu and the government has been very good.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U42	Now let's take Küllik's Hatter question. Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U43	Thank you, good Chairman. Good Prime Minister! According to officials of the Ministry of Finance, the population of Estonia has fallen to 800000 by 2100. We therefore have an urgent need to start reducing the costs of government from today. In view of the fact that Mr Aab and Mr Ossinovski have already said that they will not continue to serve as ministers, perhaps it is time for you to review the structure of the government as well. This has grown because politicians, or ministers, have taken on more administrative tasks, leading the ministry, not making political decisions. Does the government intend to review in the near future these three ministries, which currently have two ministers, so that there would be a regime, i.e. there would be one minister in all?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U44	Thank you. If it is your desire to put the field of the Minister for Health and Labour and the field of the Minister for Public Administration idle, then no, we do not agree with that. As I have already said, the current government does not have much of a time to tick when Estonia is celebrating its 100th anniversary anniversary. On the contrary. In the field of the Minister of State Administration, as we know, there is currently a project of state buildings, as well as the removal of jobs and some other regional programmes, such as the Ida-Virumaa programme. The future fiscal strategy of the country has a new initiative, the South-East Estonia programme. I do not think there is such an opportunity here that we would now say that these two very important areas should not be taken forward. On the contrary, they must. There have been a great many reforms in the field of the Minister for Health and Labour, their implementation in 2018 is important. Mr Ossinovski has, in my opinion, done a very serious and good job, first of all, of increasing funding for health care and also of creating certainty at principle level. If we take up additional funding from the Health Insurance Fund, it has actually been one of the issues he is moving and is also a priority for the government. Let's get on with the same prescription medication reimbursement of the circa three million a year. I would also like to say that we have foreseen in the new country's budget strategy a more preventive side, so that people's health is better, that they are healthier, even if it is to support the establishment of the same county health centres and support for sport. So there is a lot of work in both areas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U45	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U46	Foreign Minister Sven Mikser answers the question asked by Andres Herkel. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U47	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Minister of Foreign Affairs! The situation in Syria has been disturbing for a long time. In this morning's news, the question was whether experts from the Chemical Weapons Ban Organisation had arrived at the city of Douma and started working, and what were their options. Any subsequent delay may lead to the destruction of evidence. How do you see this situation? After this unfortunate chemical attack on 7 April, are there any preconditions for approaching a situation where such acts of terrorism are no longer repeated?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U48	Thank you. I believe that the overwhelming majority of the international community is working by all possible means to ensure that the use of chemical weapons as a prohibited weapon does indeed remain in history. The Convention on the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, which bans not only the use of chemical weapons but also the production and storage of chemical weapons, actually dates back more than 20 years. The Convention entered into force in 1997. Now 192 countries have joined it, i.e. only five or six of the UN Member States have not yet joined the circuit. It is recalled that in 2013, when the Syrian regime was accused of using chemical weapons, the Government of Bashar al-Assad also joined the Convention on the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons in Syria under pressure from the international community and declared the destruction of chemical weapons. Nevertheless, the use of chemical weapons against opponents has also repeatedly been confirmed over the intervening years. On two occasions it has also been forced to take military action a year ago by the United States, and now, a few days ago by the United States, Great Britain and France, in order to give a very clear understanding to the Bashar al-Assad regime that the international community is not prepared to accept the use of chemical weapons and, of course, to seriously damage facilities for the production, storage and use of chemical weapons in Syria. These are all steps towards making it more difficult for such criminal regimes to use chemical weapons against their people or against their opponents, both through political pressure and through real action.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U49	Andres Herkel, please specify the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U50	Thank you. Dear Minister, You, how to say, homology Russian Foreign Minister Lavrov, after the attack, said that it was organized by secret services from another country and the reference was probably to Britain. The French President, in turn, has said that there is evidence that it is organised by the Assad regime. You have commented very much on this subject. I myself wrote a few sentences on Facebook on Saturday morning, and the trolls appeared, asking about where you're even taking Assad's chemical weapon. How about this? How strong is our evidence, and where does this troll factory come from?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U51	Thank you. The evidence is overwhelming and convincing. When it comes to chemical weapons, there are, of course, many kinds of chemical weapons. There are certain types of chemical compounds and agents, such as nerve gases, which cannot be used for purposes other than chemical weapons and whose production, manufacture and storage are prohibited. And there are other types of chemical compounds which are also widely used outside warfare, the production and possession of which is not in itself prohibited by the Chemical Weapons Convention, but the use due to their toxic effects is prohibited in war situations. There are also a number of categories. As far as troll factories and propaganda attacks are concerned, already on Friday night, at 10 a.m. on the east coast of the United States and at 5 a.m. on Saturday morning, when there was a direct attack on chemical facilities in Syria by the United States, Great Britain and France, the United States Secretary of Defense, Mattis, said at his press conference that a massive propaganda attack could be expected, trying to spread the truths and question the facts that were confirmed. This is what we see, too, when doubts and doubts are sown. In fact, Russia, which has been known to be one of the most influential and strong supporters of the Bashar al-Assad regime, and which has not itself demonstrated compliance with the obligations they have undertaken with the Convention on the Prohibition of the Chemical Weapons, has at all denied that a chemical attack is taking place in that city of Douma. In other statements, however, he has said that a chemical attack has taken place, but it has been perpetrated by someone other than the Bashar al-Assad regime for some kind of provocative purpose, in order to justify a future attack. So this is a pattern that we actually see in Russia's wider behaviour, not just in the context of East Guta or Douma.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U52	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U53	Thank you, good Chairman. Good Minister of Foreign Affairs! How successful do you consider Britain, France and the United States to be on 14 April? Have you done any analysis in Estonia, at European Union level, at NATO level, and what is your personal position?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U54	Thank you. In fact, the three countries that carried out this attack declared that this is a one-off precision attack, which is clearly targeted at chemical weapons facilities and which does not have the broader objectives of influencing the overall cost of the Syrian conflict or the objectives of amending the Syrian regime. Not that it is not desirable, but the purpose of the attack was not to overthrow the Bashar al-Assad regime or replace it with another regime. As I said, this attack will undoubtedly have two objectives. France's leaders have also repeatedly stressed that, apart from sending a political message, the purpose of this attack was to significantly undermine the ability to produce and maintain chemical weapons. As it is successful in the long term, it will be answered by weeks and months. Undoubtedly, in the short term, the ability of the Bashar al-Assad regime to use chemical weapons will be reduced. Has it become nonexistent? It's difficult to say. Our national capacity to adequately assess this is somewhat limited, we must rely on the assessments of our allies and international organisations. This single attack certainly does not deprive the Bashar al-Assad regime of its ability to continue its military activities by conventional means. The position of both Estonia and the European Union is that a long-term solution must be political. The fact is, too, that the military success, especially with the support of Russia and Iran, and the inclusion of the territory, have apparently demoted the Bashar al-Assad regime to seek any political solution. Of course, one of the inevitable conditions of any political solution is that people who have committed war crimes or crimes against humanity must not escape punishment and must bear responsibility for their actions.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U55	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U56	Prime Minister Jüri Ratas will now answer the question posed by Uno Kaskpeit. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U57	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! For example, in Finland, when a dwelling is planned or built, there is a standard for square meters, from which there must be a civil shelter under the house. Unfortunately, we have even forgotten these rooms in the Riigikogu; in cities, all advisory shelters have been destroyed and there is no norm or obligation to build and design new buildings. I am interested in how we currently have civil protection and security, especially in cities in crisis and bombing situations.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U58	Mr. Uno Kaskpeit! I think that this issue that you are raising is very important. Often, for some reason, it seems to me that this shadow is not taken seriously. You could say that sometimes there's even irony in it. But in difficult moments, we do hope that these moments will not come, of course, the shadowing of people is an important issue. Unfortunately, the fact that this has not been the case for a very long time in Estonia is true. A task force has been set up at the State Chancellery in order to move forward and deal with this issue, whose task is to provide the government with an analysis of common shadow solutions by the end of this year. We discussed this at our cabinet meeting and also when we approved the concept of population protection, and we have talked about this on several occasions in the Security Committee of the Government of the Republic. The questions that arise are, in fact, what you referred to in these situations, in those moments, those who guide people, where they are directed, and whether we have an overview of the possibilities of hiding. I think that what is very important is what you were suggesting that if larger public buildings are built, what is their technical capacity, the strength reserve, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U59	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U60	These are the topics we have really discussed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U61	Uno Kaskpeit, more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U62	Your predecessor answered my previous question, "We have long-range anti-aircraft missiles." That, of course, was an interesting answer. I'm glad to hear you've been discussing this. However, are you not planning to turn to your Finnish colleagues? They have long experience in this regard, especially in the construction and creation of new dwellings. What are the future plans?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U63	Thank you. As I have told you, we do not currently have a clear responsibility in the country, as well as specific activities. What have we done? There has been more than one debate. The task force at the State Chancellery is really working on this subject until the end of this year. Do you want to contact Finnish friends and ask for experience? I think it may even be worth looking a little more at how it has been resolved in other Scandinavian countries. Certainly turning to Finland is not a bad idea. When this moment comes and is needed, I believe that learning from my friends, say, Finland or other Scandinavian countries is reasonable. Anyway. But we'll figure out our own solution eventually. However, as I said in reply to the previous question, I think that, in the case of large public buildings, very serious attention must be paid to whether to build special rooms or to make certain parts of the building with such a strong margin of strength that hiding there is conceivable and possible, I am thinking in particular of car parks. I'm sure it's a good idea for us to have this discussion, that's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U64	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U65	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! This topic is, of course, much wider and more multilayered than the issue of shelters alone. In fact, in this context, I want to know whether the government has a specific plan to evacuate the population and how to provide the evacuated population with everything that is necessary for life. As the experience of Syria now shows, a country east of us will not be crucified by the bombing of the civilian quarter and civilians. Firepower today is such that there are few shadows that resist it. This means that in a crisis situation, it is likely to be necessary to evacuate the population. But the crisis may also be linked to other factors, such as the cyber attack that disrupts our water supply, electricity supply and communications.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U66	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U67	In this case, too, it may be necessary to evacuate the population. Is There Preparedness?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U68	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U69	Thank you. Also to the aspect of cyber-danger or cyber-attack that you spoke about and concerning our daily services, you said water, but I would also say traffic, electricity and heating, has been addressed and paid attention. The concept of public protection was approved by the Government on 15 February 2018 and its implementation is coordinated by the Ministry of Internal Affairs (emergency situations) and the State Chancellery (public defence crisis-related activities). This concept is necessary because the threat picture is complex, natural disasters threatening everyday life, possible disruption of vital services such as electricity, water and communications, terrorist attacks, etc. In addition, the country as a whole also needs to reflect on activities and define a clearer division of responsibility for who, how and on what basis deals with the protection of residents in the event of both civil and military threats. What has the country done? There is a need to develop certain capabilities to be prepared to protect the population in crisis situations. This additional need was also at issue during the discussion of the country's budgetary strategy. First of all, there is a need to develop a SMS-based notification system that would allow people in a specific location in a crisis situation to be informed quickly and given primary codes of conduct. Secondly, in the area of health, there is a need to increase medical supplies and to provide crisis-specific training for medical staff so that hospitals are able to reorganize their normal work in the event of a crisis. Thirdly, the awareness of the population needs to be raised. More risk communication and communication is needed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U70	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U71	Prime Minister Jüri Ratas will now have the opportunity to answer the question posed by Enn Meri. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Founded Prime Minister! As we all know, the picture of the Estonian economy looks something like this: the economy is doing very well and it is slightly overheating. Our construction sector is the main cause of overheating. The overheating of the construction sector is justified by the intensive construction of commercial surfaces and, to a certain extent, apartments. In addition to this situation, the construction of planned state-owned rental houses and several official buildings will deteriorate further. My questions to the Prime Minister. Firstly, has the budgetary strategy taken into account the risk of overheating of the economy and, if so, how? Secondly, has the government discussed the postponement of planned construction sites?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U73	Thank you. I didn't have a chance in the last briefing to wish you strength. This time I am honoured to answer your questions for the first time, and I also wish you strength in this difficult but certainly necessary work here as a member of the Riigikogu for the benefit of the residents of Estonia. You asked whether it had been taken into account in the country's budget strategy and whether overheating had been taken into account. I have met quite a number of local authorities and there have been very clear principles in the government coalition. We know that labour is not the best in the economic sector, rather it is bad. We must make every effort to ensure that the people of Estonia who work outside the country come back here. Many of them relate not only to Tallinn and Tartu, but also to rural areas. They have to be given the chance that when they come back here, they have a real place to live. Quite a number of local authorities have already approached the state with the interest that the programme of rental homes should be realised in their own country. Have we planned to postpone these activities? We talked about this during the debate on the country's budgetary strategy. On the contrary, I think this is where we can see that this programme needs to be moved forward. This is actually one way of resolving the issue of our labour market, so that people actually return to Estonia. No, we have left these investments exactly as they were in the previous national budget strategy.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U74	Enn Meri, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U75	I would ask if, as an alternative to building rental dwellings and rental houses, an option has been discussed to buy apartments and then rent them out to the families you called here.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U76	Thank you. No, the program still provides for the creation of comprehensive solutions. Here, the most important partner or party is actually the local government, which must organise it, but the state is willing to provide financial support.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U77	Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Minister for Social Protection Kaia Iva, Minister for Foreign Affairs Sven Mikser, thank you very much for your reply! Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U78	Hello to those who have not yet seen! Power! Transfer of pre-claims and enquiries. Incoming check, please! Currently 72 members of the Riigikogu are present in the plenary. Clarification of the agenda. Agenda item 2 has amended the Commission rapporteur, which has become Helmut Hallemaa, on a proposal from the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U79	Let's start with the third reading of the draft law on bankruptcy initiated by the Government of the Republic and the amendment of other laws 575. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. Let's go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu is required for the adoption of this bill. Incoming check, please! The assembly has 81 members of the Riigikogu. I am voting on the draft Act on Bankruptcy initiated by the Government of the Republic and on the amendment of other laws 575. Please take a stand and vote. There were 77 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the adoption of the draft 575, with no abstentions. The law amending the Bankruptcy Act and other laws has been passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U80	Second reading of the draft law amending the Aliens Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Helmut Hallemaa, rapporteur for the Constitutional Commission, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U81	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, I bring to you the debate at second reading of the draft law amending the Aliens Act, held in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The committee was chaired by Marko Pomerants and attended by Jüri Adams, Hanno Pevkur, Dmitri Dmitriev Helmut Hallemaa as alternate member, Jaak Madison, Lauri Luik, Tarmo Kruusimäe Mart Nut, Mikhail Korb, Rein Randver, Tiit Terik and our advisers. Ruth Annus, Head of the Department of Citizenship and Migration Policy of the Ministry of the Interior, Harry Kattai, Adviser to the same department, and Kaspar Lepper, Legal Adviser, and Tanel Jõks, Head of the Consular Office of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The chairman of the committee said at the beginning of the committee meeting that the first reading of the draft took place in this very Chamber on 14 March and after that an amendment to the draft was tabled, the author of which is the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party (EKRE). This amendment was presented at the meeting by Mr Madison, Member of the Commission and of the Group. He explained the content of the amendment tabled by the EKRE Group. The transposition of all the points of the European Union's directive on learning and research migration is not, in fact, compulsory, and one such point concerns the service of au pair, or home maid. The content of the amendment is to remove from this draft law those provisions which ensure that the regulation of this service is introduced, i.e. the part of subsection 1 (11) supplementing the Act by § 1061, § 1 (13) and § 1 (17) to (18) and § 21. The content of all of them is the regulation of the baby-sitter-home-help service, or au pair, which is being taken out of the bill. The whole discussion took place mainly between the authors of this proposal and the people who were present in the Commission: why, in the opinion of the initiators, the proposal was necessary and why, in the end, the Commission was found not to be necessary. Ruth Annus, Head of Department of the Ministry of the Interior, stated that the Ministry would support the adoption of the draft as originally proposed by the Ministry, which is why the Ministry does not accept this amendment. The justification is that this regulation is compatible with the Estonian legal order and there is no reasonable legal justification why the directive should not be transposed into this category. The need for such baby-sitters and domestic workers is real in Estonia. The Commission also held a "geographical discussion." Ruth Annus also said that Western European countries have largely transposed this regulation, and Eastern European countries have not done so. As one of the authors of the amendment, Jaak Madison asked on what basis it would be assessed, i.e. when the Eastern European country moved to western Europe. I think it has never been a geographical issue. It has rather been a matter of political developments and also of the level of development of society. Ruth Annus also replied that it was not really meant to be here. Rather, it is meant that Estonia has so far been guided by the principle that Estonia imposes restrictions or does not provide new opportunities solely on reasonable grounds, which are the main risk of misuse and the threat to public order and security. This regulation has neither been observed nor foreseen to pose any risk. Member of the Commission Jüri Adams asked whether, at the moment, the action as an au pair in Estonia was hindered or complicated, or if the EKRE Group's proposal were to find support, what would be different in the future. The answer was that the Aliens Act does not currently provide for such a separate regulation. All the people in this category who come from third countries when they are there will actually go under labour migration and have to meet requirements that include the requirement to pay average wages. In the later discussion, several members of the committee found that there are not many cases in general in Estonia where average wages are paid to babysitters and domestic workers. Rather, a significantly lower fee is paid for this service. Member of the Commission Lauri Luik was interested in what risks the EKRE Group sees in introducing au pair regulation into the Estonian legal order. Jaak Madison noted that the EKRE Group does not support the idea that the Estonian state must transpose the provisions of the directives into its laws simply because Estonian ministries see no valid reason not to accept them. Rather, on the contrary, it should be that these regulations and legislative acts that solve a problem are being transposed to help the Estonian legal system or the working environment. Jaak Madison also mentioned unregulated taxation, which could be a problem issue. The Ministry's representative, Ruth Annus, noted that the part relating to the taxation of the remuneration paid to baby-sitters and domestic workers will not change after this takeover; in fact, this regulation still exists. The introduction of this au pair regulation makes it possible to pay allowance to baby-sitters and domestic workers; it is not a salary or a salary. If it were to be transferred to pay grounds, it would have to be based on all labour laws, and then such work would have to be regulated. Similarly, it is possible to observe the principles of domestic or baby-sitter activities. In any event, if they are not followed, the work to be carried out in such a case must be taken as a basis. That's when Hanno Pevkur got the call. He addressed the ministry representative Ruth Dosage with quite a number of questions. First, he asked if the size of the allowance was regulated. The answer was that it was not regulated. Hanno Pevkur was also interested in how many people could be interested in coming to Estonia for an au pair. The answer to the ministry was that we do not really have this knowledge right now, because we do not have any regulation. Thus, the relevant category is not fixed in the law either. Hanno Pevkur also asked whether the Ministry of Finance did not see the problem of paying au pair pocket money that was not taxed. The answer was that neither the Ministry of Finance nor the Ministry of Justice sees a problem in this matter or matter. In fact, by taxing it, the family or parents pay the service provider a fee on their salary or income from which the Estonian state has already received taxes. Tarmo Kruusimäe wondered whether such regulation existed in Hungary and the Czech Republic, for example. The answer was that this regulation has not been implemented in either country. Jüri Adams stated that, if you look at the text of the draft, it does not appear that au pair must have a contract with the host family, but is likely to have a contract with a dealership. The Ministry's legal adviser, Harry Kattai, explained that in the future there could indeed be a possibility that a child-sitter organisation would enter into a contract with a person to help a particular family and that the person would take care of the children of that family. At the end of the debate, Mr Pomerants, the chairman of the committee, asked for support for the amendment tabled by the EKRE Group. The vote received two votes in favour, and the other members of the Commission were opposed, so the Commission did not take this proposal into account. [[Jüri Adams and Jaak Madison]] The explanation of Jüri Adams must also be mentioned here. He noted that his vote was not substantive. He considered it necessary to vote in favour of our home and working arrangements, which provides that if the draft has less than two supporters, which of course can only mean one supporter, it will not be put to the vote in the Chamber. Adams' justification was that he voted in favour of the draft in committee, so that this amendment could also be put to the vote in the Chamber if the author of the amendments, or the EKRE Group, so wished. Finally, procedural decisions were taken: to put the second reading of the draft on today's agenda, to propose that the second reading of the draft be terminated and, if the draft is supported at second reading, to conclude the final vote on this draft on 2 May 2018. All members of the Commission were in favour of this, except for Jaak Madison, who opposed it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U82	Questions for the waitress. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U83	Good manager! Good waitress! I have read the directive carefully and it is excellent: scientists, students, volunteers, etc. But the au pairs are there like a saddle on a pig. However, point 23 of the Directive states that Member States should also be able to apply the provisions of this Directive to them. This is the only point that does not concern scientists, students, students or volunteers. I also looked at the pages of Pere24: two Olgas, two Triinuts, one Evelin, three Tuulis, Marilis, and many others are looking for work as an au pair. My question is why you didn't consider it. The directive gives the local state the opportunity, according to the circumstances, to apply the provisions precisely in the case of au pairs, but we do not. Why?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U84	You should ask all those eight hitchhikers why they did that. In the Commission, a majority of members voted in favour of not taking this amendment into account. As I mentioned here, Jüri Adams also explained why he supported the consideration of this amendment. He considered it necessary to state separately for the minutes that his main motive was that the amendment should be put to the vote in the Chamber. Perhaps if the performers wanted to put it to a vote in the Chamber, it would also be put to a vote here. Surely those people with the Estonian names you called would also deserve and need this service and, if there are people who wish, why not.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U85	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Commission waitress. You spoke quite thoroughly about what the Commission was discussing and what the questions were. Would you please summarise further what societal bottlenecks are really being addressed by this legislative amendment, which specifically involves the possible implementation of third-country baby-sitters and domestic workers? What is the problem of society itself, of our society?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U86	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U87	I actually explained that. After all, the responses also mentioned that the current draft law, this transposition of the European directive, is not intended to address any particular bottleneck, but to provide additional opportunities. In a very large number of European countries, this directive has been implemented in this way since 1969 in agreement with the Council of the European Union. I am not the author of this draft law and, therefore, I cannot state all the reasons, but it is a transposition of a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council. The au pairs have been added to it as one point, but above all, it is the directive on learning and research migration. The main part of this directive really concerns this side. This is a completely necessary directive because it harmonises the movement and work of people with residence permits issued in the European Union based on regulations in Estonia and being here. Similarly, people with residence permits issued on the basis of regulations will have the opportunity to move to other countries. It is also very important that it is now possible to reward the practice, which could not actually have been done before.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U88	Thank you. All you're saying is absurd. Estonian universities are full of foreign students and foreign lecturers. All the laws are in place that allow it. There is free movement of labour within the European Union. What are they talking about? What they're actually talking about is opening the back door to immigration. By the way, as far as au pairs are concerned, this is also about opening the door to human trafficking, including prostitution. All the things you have mentioned here are how pocket money can be paid, and the way some dealership can start bringing them to the country is to open the door to illegal immigration, prostitution and human trafficking. The transposition of this directive is currently absolutely immoral and has been understood by the Czechs and by some other Eastern European countries. My question is, do you agree with me that from whomever the Lord wants to punish, he will first take his mind?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U89	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U90	I do not believe that this last question of consent or not consent is a matter that is in line with the agenda. However, as far as the statements made by my good colleague Mart Helme are concerned, your amendment does not really address the part that you are talking about here. You yourself have proposed an amendment only to the part of the directive concerning the regulation of au pairs, or baby-sitters and domestic workers. So the preceding part, which was the first part of your question, you have not formulated in your amendment, which could then have been worded. It is undoubtedly possible to relate to it differently, and this first part is important. With regard to the care of the baby-sitter-home maid, it is certainly possible to improve matters here too, with future regulations, more control and better regulation.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U91	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U92	Good manager! Good waitress! I repeat once again: although we do not need to have our own people looking for work, and the directive provides an opportunity either to implement or not to implement the point, we say, with fish eyes, that we are still implementing it. Have you and the Members of the Commission even read the directive? On the other hand, the Directive states that au pairs may be exploited, which is not mentioned for researchers, students or students. Did you discuss as a second question how to prevent these au pairs coming from third countries from being exploited here, for example, as a prostitute or I do not know who else?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U93	Thank you. In fact, this is a second-reading debate. Between the first and second readings, everyone had the opportunity to make proposals for amending, supplementing, correcting the bill, whatever it takes. Only one of these proposals was received. And the part of the Commission's protocol that you dealt with at the end was not reflected in the issue of using them in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U94	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U95	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good waitress! Did the Commission also discuss how the Tax Administration would accept their allowance? The people of Estonia are really looking for a job as babysitters, but people come here from elsewhere to earn pocket money, so-called pocket money.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U96	In fact, all the categories that are discussed here must fit within the framework of the laws in force in Estonia, under Estonian regulations. And all these legislative acts give the Tax and Customs Board enough regulation. Nor should we over-regulate Estonian society.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U97	No more questions for the waitress. I'm opening negotiations. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U98	The talk that we have now heard here is literally absurd and, embarrassing to say, completely shallow. The reasons for making one of the recommended parts of the European Directive mandatory in Estonia are below all records. Firstly, I have a question as to whether Estonia is a sovereign state. Does the Riigikogu represent an independent, sovereign state that has its own judgment and also its own powers of decision, or are we just loyal servants who run on each master's fingertips and absolutely agree with the regulation of banana curvature, the declaration of carrot fruit or whatever? We do not have the slightest obligation, much less the need to make this part of the directive, which concerns baby-sitters and domestic workers, compulsory for Estonia. We have absolutely no need to open the door to third-country nationals. We already have enough of them: in 2016, almost 7300 people came from third countries, and in 2017 the number of immigrants was even higher. In ten years, we will have a contingencies the size of the city of Tartu, which do not speak Estonian, if this trend and all these bypasses of your proposed quota system continue. The talk that we are not increasing the quota is not going to cost anything: practically every day they come up with new exceptions, which actually cancels this quota for the protection of the Estonian population. Now specifically about this thing. According to the Ministry, there are no legal contraindications. Oh, my God! We only have 900,000 Estonians here. We have a huge open region, the European Union, the United States, Canada, Japan, where there are a billion people who can come here without any restrictions. There is little of that, you want to open the door to third countries. The remuneration paid to the babysitter-home maid is suddenly no longer a salary. It doesn't have to pay taxes, it's not like doing work. That's absurd! In fact, black wages are legalized. And the claim that the employer has already paid taxes, that au pair doesn't have to do it anymore, is absurd. We all have to pay taxes, but suddenly one contingent doesn't have to. If my neighbor is unemployed, I hire her, I call on her to help me break up the trees, and I pay her EUR 10 to 20, for example, and it gets to the IRS, she's gonna lose all the benefits. But some au pairs can make no matter how much. Worst of all, they can really work as prostitutes, or God knows who doesn't have a problem. The fact that integration problems are increasing in society, or the pressure on wages to remain low, does not matter at all. It doesn't make any sense. And if you listen to what the Minister of the Interior said here at first reading, there is no justification for the need... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U99	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U100	The Minister of the Interior announced that this would give third-country people the opportunity to broaden their horizons. Oh, my God! It is not up to us to broaden the horizons of people from third countries by taking our people's work away from us. As a colleague read out here, we have a whole bunch of people looking for a job as an au pair. We have thousands of students and students who would be happy to earn some extra money while studying. We have pensioners, and so on. We don't think about them. If they go au pair, baby-sitting-home help, the IRS is gonna kick their ass, 'cause otherwise they're gonna do the dirty work. But to the people of third countries, we say, "Be my guest, come and work blackly as much as you can, and in addition to it, anything else." Some of them may be coming to the family not to do the homework, but to do the homework. This will contribute to legalising prostitution. Coming out here with this kind of thing and saying that it's kind of useful to us, and there's no argument against it, it's totally crazy. The only arguments that exist are the thoughts put forward to push through this crazy idea and recommendation. So I believe that every person with any gray brain cells in this hall, not only in this hall, but in the entire Republic of Estonia, understands that this is an absurd proposal. This is one of the links in a series of encouraging mass immigration, with which we are extremely fiercely, purposefully and consistently coming up, which we have seen and will soon see again in this Chamber. Let's brake it! We're small people. Our preservation and survival are our most important task and responsibility and an argument against all such plans to replace and destroy the Estonian people. Thus, the Estonian Conservative People's Party proposes to interrupt the second reading of the draft law 590. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U101	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U102	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I wasn't planning on coming here, but I can't keep my mouth shut when I'm through this directive. In fact, it is a very good directive, which aims to increase the role of science and to find more people who could implement science in the interests of society. It concerns scientists, students, students and volunteers, but as I said before, the au pairs have been assembled there like a saddle on a pig's back. The directive also states that a subsequent wider consultation has revealed the need to provide better protection for au pairs. It is also said that au pairs may be exploited again by the text of the directive. Nowhere does the directive say that researchers, students, students or volunteers will also be exploited, that there is such a danger, that only au pairs are spoken of. At the same time, point 23 of the Directive states directly only as regards au pairs that Member States should be able to apply the provisions of this Directive. I repeat: it concerns not scientists, students, students or volunteers, but au pairs. Consequently, the Commission has only given us a chance at this one point, but we say fish-eyed, with the face of cod, that we are taking over everything as a whole. Come on, guys, why? Moreover, if this profession is needed by a very, very large number of people at home. So I don't understand why we're doing this. I would stress that this directive will actually be deserted: it will have to be adopted by 23 May, otherwise there will be an infringement procedure. So there's still time. In my opinion, the directive is good in itself and should be adopted. I would vote in favour, but if the directive gives us the opportunity to consider the role of au pairs and we do not do so, I do not agree with that. So much could still be discussed and there could be statesmanship, that if we really do not need it, and the Commission will give us an opportunity, we will use it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U103	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U104	Good Chairman! Good folklore! I was planning on coming here. At first reading, I was very keen on domestics and babysitters, and unlike maybe many of you, I got a pretty good headwash. It turns out that for quite a few of our young people, the first foreign experience is being a domestic or babysitter. I don't know where you've all come up with this idea that the nanny is automatically a prostitute. Perhaps we have far more specialists here than we thought. People can also claim that all members of the Riigikogu are stupid, but not all fools are yet members of the Riigikogu. So if you know a few cases when you have used this service, not reporting a crime is still aiding a crime. If you use babysitters and domestic workers in an untargeted way, we have law enforcement agencies. The threat is generally maintained, because if the nanny prepares the master a little bit, it may not be directly due to the duties of the host. That's what I said here last time, when a maid has to make a birthday table, is it supposed to be? I know what I'm talking about. I've been a restaurant chef, and I've also been offered cooking at embassies or at the ambassador's house. It's just that this working schedule didn't work for me at the time. I wanted creative freedom, not that I have to be ready in the evenings, maybe some member of the Riigikogu will go to the ambassador who resides here, and I have to start doing shit instead of trying to be calmly with the bandmates. There's a very important moment I want to tell Jüri Adams. He said there in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that because his mother was a domestic worker in England, he received good, perfect English. As a result, through his mother, he also gained the values he now has. On the basis of only one thing, our Rules of Procedure, he supported the proposal, but unfortunately he does not talk about anything else here. So I don't know if it's good to have people here at all. Let's start by shutting down the borders: not letting our children and young people go anywhere else as domestic workers or babysitters, but let's not let others in. The hysteria that we have mass immigration, I haven't noticed, although I'm moving around. And is it good or bad that we have universities going down the road that people with different skin colors study there? I think we should review the university law, we may have given them too much autonomy. Maybe the problem you should be talking about right now is that your master's thesis can be protected here in English. It's also a sign of openness, but that's why our native-language higher education is dying out. I apologize to all of them that I think so, but it is not wrong of us to have a businessman coming to Estonia from Indonesia who wants to bring a domestic worker, so that the language and culture of Indonesian can reach his child, who would not learn so much local customs. We could count on each nation to be sacred. And if successful Estonian people go abroad and take home help from here, it is welcome. However, I do not understand the concerns of young people who say that they would like to work as a domestic worker, whether they have written a letter of motivation in Indonesian, have applied for it or have other demands, conditions or lack of competence. I don't see a problem that bad right now. But sometimes we think about our young ones, too, maybe we look at the mirror image. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U105	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U106	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, Golden words are what has been said in some cases so that some people can take advantage of the opportunity to remain silent. Some people could have used the opportunity to remain silent today because there is no point in squirting the foolishness of a servant in this hall, as if our young people could not go abroad. There is free movement of labour, capital and services within the European Union. It probably hasn't reached some of the pagans, even though we've had it for quite some time since 2004. We see that our young people can go to Germany, England, Poland and Spain as babysitters or students, as well as research or restaurant work. Estonia's valued cooks are everywhere in Europe. There are no obstacles. Just as there are no obstacles for people from the European Union, the United States, Canada and very many other countries, who have about a billion or so, to come to Estonia. It is possible for all of them, and it is foolish to talk here about closing borders. I repeat, from whomever the Lord wants to punish, he truly takes his mind first. And if you don't have any sense, there's no point in talking about things you don't understand. It is not even a question of knowledge; it is simply a question of understanding. This draft has raised the issue of opening the back door to third-country nationals and criminal structures, who are in absolutely every country in the world. We are also giving the same directive the opportunity to lay the foundations for illegal trafficking in human beings. And if someone is trying to say that there is no illegal trafficking in human beings in the world and that there is no illegal trafficking in human beings in the European Union, I am sorry, go to a psychiatrist and it is completely there. If someone tries to claim that there are currently about a billion people in the world who would like to leave their homes, whether it is because of global warming, civil wars or whatever else, he also knows nothing about what is happening in the world. If this person does not know that one target for this billion people is the European Union, including Estonia, then he will not perceive what is happening in the world adequately. If this person does not know that the migratory pressure on the Nordic countries and the European Union will only increase in the future, then this person will not perceive the world adequately. This morning, I read the opinion of a Finnish scientist that Finland will be threatened by the immigration of about a million people from Africa in the coming years. Finland is a welfare state that has already been put on a map by its people. About a million people may want to come to Finland. If people in this Chamber do not understand the realities that govern the world, they have been given a mandate under very, very strange circumstances. It is not a question of our group wanting to lock Estonia up. The question is not that our group wants to rebuild the wall to Estonia, as our enemies keep repeating themselves and convincing themselves. The question is that we are defending Estonia. We defend this Estonia, which is enshrined in the Constitution. This Estonia is an open Estonia, which is in the European Union and NATO, from which we do not want to step out, although the chairman of one of the parties on the wing of this hall is consistently lying, as if we wanted to step out of it. I don't want to step out, but that doesn't mean we don't have to defend and value our sovereignty in these organisations, either. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U107	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U108	The question is the right of 900000 Estonians to maintain their national homes. It cannot be made dependent on all possible utopia of the Eurobürocrates Directive. We have to be critical. By the way, before we start talking and before we start writing, we still need to turn on the thinking mechanism. I hope everyone in this hall has it. And this thinking mechanism tells us very clearly that there are about one million Estonians on a planet with a population of 7.5 billion inhabitants, and 900000 of them live in Estonia. It is our duty, which we have received a mandate from the electorate, to keep, protect and cherish this 900000 people and their national home. Finally, so much more that the elections are approaching at a cosmic rate. We heard the new chairman of a party talking about patriotism on Sunday. We can hear others here talking about some kind of happy and friendly nationalism. Friends, then act like patriots and friendly nationalists who, at the same time, will not escape the fight when it is necessary to stand up for your truth, your righteousness and your people. That's how simple these things are. And we will end the automatic transposition of the Euro Directives. We are not here to be the rubber stamp of the Euro Directives. We are here because we have received a mandate to protect and represent the Estonian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U109	I'm closing the negotiations. One amendment has been tabled for draft 590. This has been presented by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia and the Commission has disregarded it. There's no problem with that. However, there is a proposal. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U110	Thank you. I ask you to vote on this!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-18_U111	Got it! Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 1, tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, which has been disregarded by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. This amendment was accepted by 18 and 31 members of the Riigikogu, with one abstention. The proposal was not supported. Dear Riigikogu, we have examined the amendments. However, we have also received a proposal from the Conservative People's Party Group to interrupt the second reading of the draft. We also need to vote on this proposal. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia to interrupt the second reading of the draft 590. Please take a stand and vote. 18 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of this proposal and 33 against, with 2 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The second reading of Bill 590 is complete. Closure of the sitting at 2.55 p.m.
