ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-10_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the 14th working week Thursday session of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Does anyone have any drafts or inquiries to hand over? No drafts or requests for information are recommended. We're going to the presence check. Incoming check, please! Ladies and gentlemen, 67 members of the Riigikogu are present, 34 are missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-10_U2	Our first and only item is today the Annual Report 2017 of the Financial Supervision Authority. Before we go any further, I'll introduce you to the procedure. First, the presentation by Kilvar Kessler, Chairman of the Management Board of the Financial Supervision Authority, will be up to 20 minutes, then each member of the Riigikogu will be able to ask the rapporteur one oral question and after that negotiations will be opened to the representatives of the political groups. Now, let's move on to our agenda. We ask for a chair of speech from Kilvar Kessler, Chairman of the Board of the Financial Supervision Authority. Here you go!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-10_U3	I am pleased to see that there are so many listeners this year, and there have been a little less in previous years. Thanks for that. Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Good viewers-listers who follow the presentation online! Under the Financial Supervision Act, we submitted the annual report of the inspection to the Riigikogu. It covers the most important events, trends and actions in the Estonian financial market and financial supervision that took place in 2017. I am always happy to make a presentation here in front of the Riigikogu. We are ready to answer more than one question with the Financial Supervision Authority, but I understand that there are rules in this Chamber, and I am also following them. However, if you have more questions, let us know and we will always be happy to answer them. There would be many issues to discuss with you, but because of the limited time I have to make a choice in my presentation today. First of all, I will make a modest attempt to score, aggregate scores for market participants in the Estonian financial sector. My grandfather was a teacher, gave history, my grandmother was a teacher, she gave German, my daughter wants to become a teacher, even though she still doesn't know exactly what subject she wants to give, my wife works at school, and I give the Faculty of Law of the University of Tartu the subject "Financial Markets and Financial Supervision" for 18 years. So forgive me for this urge to score. I will then consider the importance of international cooperation, present the selected views in the field of risk control and financial innovation of financial intermediaries, and end up describing a few large projects that I think are positive for Estonia. Our economy is doing well, and that is why the financial sector is doing well. We have been through the crisis and relatively good times have arrived. The truth is that the foundation of the next crisis will be laid in good times, and then no one will know when and how the crisis will occur. Past indicators may not provide the slightest indication for the future. The second point I would like to emphasise is the fraud of statistics. Overall, good indicators do not mean that everyone is doing well without exception. In reality, the whole person has a body temperature of 36,6 degrees and the patient is the one to whom the thermometer shows, for example, 39 degrees. Both are just as healthy as they are, the other sick, not two sick people with an average body temperature of 37.8 degrees. Therefore, I apologise in advance if the generalisations and prognosis contained in my report do not correspond to every single real case now or to the trend that will emerge in the future. We in the Financial Supervision Authority like to do more to gather evidence, analyse facts, weigh these facts on the rules of law and make specific, clear and binding individual decisions. But let's put a couple of grades on the sector together, as promised. Estonian banks and most other regulated financial intermediaries are well capitalised, they stand on a solid financial basis. The Financial Supervision Authority has directed them to provide sufficient buffers to cover losses resulting from the realisation of risks. The loan portfolios of banks are of high quality, the combined ratio of non-life insurance companies is outstanding, the fixed costs of management companies are decreasing to net service income. The productivity of the sector's equity capital as a percentage can generally be written as a two-digit number, and this is a good result in a European context. Prudential standards are filled with a good margin. In purely financial terms, Estonia can score a clear five for the regulated financial sector in the collection. If you move from financial side to management and management, organisation of the organisation, especially the functioning of internal control, the picture will become brighter. The common denominator here is the cost of the complexity and number of standards and the desire to save them. Organisations with a higher income base or more technologically developed organisations have more opportunities to contribute to alignment, although illusions should not be created here. A and O are the culture and management of the organisation and the values to be borne by them. Given the size of Estonian financial intermediaries, the nature of the services provided and the quality of the supervisory dialogue, Estonia can score three plus in the collection of management, organisation and especially the functioning of internal control of the regulated financial sector. There is room for improvement and the Financial Supervision Authority will continue its in-depth work on the relevant strategic priority, corporate governance supervision. However, these relatively good grades just five and three plus may change if the risks to our sector materialise. A relatively rapid increase in credit growth and the share of technology is currently to be mentioned as trends. To the Estonian financial sector, our central bank, Eesti Pank, currently considers the main risks arising from the Nordic economy and banking: the indebtedness of households there, the high price level of real estate, the sources of bank financing and the maturity. We in the Financial Supervision Authority are also inclined to accept this assessment. This means a direct risk to our big banks if their Nordic parent companies want to support their activities at the expense of the buffers and capital here. In addition, this implies an indirect risk that the Estonian economy, which is closely linked to the Nordic economy, suffers and becomes a lower credit quality in the loan portfolios of our banks, which in turn is amplified by the relatively rapid growth in loans referred to above. It is worth noting that our large banks, Swedbank, SEB Bank and Luminor, are directly supervised by the European Central Bank in the area of capital, as are the other 116 large banks in the euro area. This means that the persons of the Financial Supervision Authority are carrying out factual capital supervision over the three major banks, but supervisory decisions in the area of capital are made by the European Central Bank (ECB) for additional capital requirements, precepts, capital and organisational obligations. The latter has a substantive decision-making body for the Board of Supervisors, one of the 23 voting members of which is also the speaker here. In the case of Estonia, the most important decisions must be taken by the European Central Bank together with Swedbank and SEB's institution of origin, the Swedish supervisory authority, which has the last word. It is therefore extremely important for Estonia and the Financial Supervision Authority that cooperation with the European Central Bank, as well as with Swedish colleagues, is good. And he is good because, in general, our work culture is similar to conservativeness, transparency, predictability. Recently, our cooperation has also been good with the Danish financial supervisory authority on the supervision of the Danish credit institution Danske Bank. As a reminder, by 2014 Danske Bank had accumulated risks due to non-residents' service that financial supervision intervention was unavoidable. 'Pecunia non olet' or 'Money does not stink,' said Roman Emperor Titus Flavius Vespasian and many bankers seemed to think similarly. However, the independent and strong Estonian state institution did not think so. The two on-the-spot inspections of the Estonian Financial Supervision Authority in 2014 and the inspiring injunction for the Estonian branch of the Danish credit institution to eliminate losses in 2015 led to the completion of the last non-residents' business by the end of 2015. The bank's infringements consisted of an inadequate risk control system. The organisation and management of the bank had significant shortcomings in the non-residents' business segment. As a result, it was possible for the Bank to participate in suspicious transactions and for the corresponding reputational risk to materialise later, in 2016 and 2017. I would remind you that according to current law, the Danish credit institution acted and acts as a branch in Danske Bank Estonia. The branch shall not have legal personality. This means that in Estonia the Danish credit institution itself and not the corresponding Estonian legal person will be delivered in contrast to, for example, Swedbank, LHV or Coop Pank, which is the legal entity of Estonia. According to the EU acquis, this means that the Danish credit institution organisation is supervised by the Danish competent authority. Denmark is good for governance, risk controls and the functioning of other organisations. The competence of the Estonian state is limited here, again under European Union law. Estonia has the right to deal with individual issues with the branch, including the application of anti-money laundering rules, i.e. what the Estonian Financial Supervision Authority has done about Danske branch three or four years ago. Denmark's supervision has now also made a negative assessment of Danske's management and organisation. The question arises as to whether, by settling Danske Bank and Versobank's affairs, the corresponding risks of servicing non-residents would have passed. I understand that in Latvia, the very legislator intervened in the process by planning to prohibit the service of certain types of non-residents. To respond, we need to make the right move to foreign policy. In particular, international relations and tensions there identify challenges for the financial sector. I quote Article 4 (1) of the Estonian International Sanctions Act, according to which 'International Financial Sanctions within the meaning of this Act are an international sanction which totally or partially prevents the subject of an international financial sanction from using and disposing of funds and economic resources or giving them possession to him. ' The tighter the relationship between countries or economic regions, the more we see financial sanctions, the wider the circles of activities they cover. This, however, puts a clear administrative burden on financial intermediaries, who must stand up for financial sanctions. The higher the compliance cost in relation to foreign customers, the lower the bank's and the other financial intermediary's interest in dealing with the relevant business segment. And we have reached a national project for foreign clients, an e-residency project. From a technical or technological point of view, I believe that this is an interesting innovative idea and solution. In this dimension, I see good support for the image of our e-state, especially if new e-services were to be added to the package. In addition to recognising the idea of selling good e-residency, however, as head of the supervisory authority, I must analyse the potential risks to the financial sector. I see the risk that the Estonian financial sector was automatically assumed to be a client of the e-resident. In my opinion, such expectations for businesses or the private sector can only be accepted if they derive from the law by obliging parties or clearly motivating them with a good or environmental incentive. The Estonian financial sector does not operate in isolation, but is subject to a framework that is 95% domestic. Our sector is part of an international network of financial intermediaries. We have an independent financial supervisory authority which is part of the European Union's system of financial supervision. The ability of Estonia to deal with the prevention of money laundering is regularly assessed by international organisations. Those are the facts. It is good that I have now seen both banks and ministries wanting to make the financial sector aware of the risks associated with e-residency and to think together about their management. A few more words about technological innovation in the financial world. The Financial Supervision Authority does not like to crazed consumers with novel terms, let the name 'crypto coins' be mentioned here and the money from those people. As one of the first financial supervisors in the world, the Financial Supervision Authority has publicly explained the nature and application of the provision of crypto assets. We do not like the seeming dressing of traditional classic financial services in an innovation jacket and, therefore, merely seeking a softer approach. In such a case, it must be asked more broadly whether the relevant financial service is over-regulated, whether the existing risk allocation in society needs to be re-evaluated and distributed in a different way. Financial market regulation is and must be technology-neutral, unless society wants non-uniform treatment in favour of technology solutions, for example at a lower consumer price. What seems normal to us as a consumer in Estonia can be a technological dream in many other countries. Estonian financial intermediaries, especially the banking and insurance side, are highly digitised at least in the context of the euro area. The Financial Supervision Authority likes innovation, digitalisation and its use in the financial world in order to improve services for consumers. A figurative example and comparison with the music world: CDs are analog music dressing in the digital jacket, so-called business format is the same, but the new jacket gives new quality. A completely new business model driven by technology is, for example, a Spotify-like music portal, where technology has created a new and more convenient service/product for the consumer. Consumers in the financial market do not yet see a change of this depth, although the upheaval at conferences and other gatherings has been predicted very soon. Artificial intelligence, big data, etc. digital solutions are not strangers to our market either. However, even experimentally, we want to see even more chat robots, robo advisors, client profiling based on big data, reporting and analysis of transaction patterns etc. on the Estonian financial market. As one of the few European financial supervisory authorities, in cooperation with Estonia's best IT security experts, we have tested the strength and security of the online solutions of the financial intermediary selected in an isolated environment. The Financial Inspectorate is prepared not only to take an extra step in Estonia, but to take a walk, even to run with innovators, taking into account, of course, the limits of the law. For example, we have been walking and running along with the central register of Inbank, Coop, Luminor and Estonian securities in 2017. As a new and very small bank, Inbank needed to be thoroughly explained to our supervisory partners in a large country of destination so that the latter's market would open to our business. Opened. Our own consumer co-operative ETK, now known as Coop, bought out Eesti Krediidipank from a Russian credit institution and is creating it as Coop Pank. This transaction, too, did not come about in itself and in games, but needed balance from all parties and a skilful and appropriate management of activities from financial supervision. Nordic Nordea and Norwegian DNB put together their Baltic businesses and formed a new Luminor bank with its headquarters in Tallinn. This transaction is one of the most exciting, including colleagues from Riga, Vilnius and Frankfurt. The Estonian Financial Supervision Authority has been the lead coordinator and carrier of this project. As you can see, Nordea and DNB's decision in favour of Tallinn did not fall at random, but as a result of a thorough analysis, where the assessment of financial supervision did not play a minor role. The central register of Estonian securities was merged cross-border and now operates from Riga, subject to the jurisdiction of Latvia. This was the first cross-border merger of depositaries in the European Union under the new regulation governing the operation of central registers. We have realised that this decision of the headquarters was influenced by Estonia's opinion at the time of the analysis to join the EU's then planned securities transaction tax. Latvia was not planning to join this plan, which has now diminished, and some time later, too late, unfortunately, Estonia gave it up. But it's just a side note. What I am stressing here was the clear wish of the Financial Supervision Authority that the personal data of future and current Estonian pensioners of the Eesti Pank merger transaction remain in Estonia. People do not have the opportunity to fail to provide the required information in relation to their pension, the choice is made here. On this assumption, the movement of such a large, sensitive and detailed database of our people into the external jurisdiction, whether it is friendly to us in Latvia, is a matter of national security. EVK formed a subsidiary for the pension register and the relevant data remained safe in Estonia. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The central role of the Financial Supervision Authority is to maintain financial stability and to ensure the fair and transparent functioning of financial markets as a whole. The 2017 Annual Book of the Financial Supervision Authority, which has been made available to you, describes the performance of these tasks during the 2017 accounting year, the 15th year of operation of the Financial Supervision Authority. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-10_U4	Thank you. You have questions too. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-10_U5	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable Head of the Financial Supervision Authority! I also wish you luck and good luck with the fact that you have been successful for over 15 years. But I wanted to ask you about a small investor case where they could so-called shear. We're talking about Romanian junk bonds. Yesterday also came the Supreme Court's resolution, which limits the chances of small investors getting something back from their property, but the legal maze of disputes continues, and this is already a ten-year story. You appreciated this situation here with a score of three plus. Could you draw any conclusions from this case yourself? This is a case involving a commercial bank that dominates the Estonian market. Are control mechanisms and due diligence procedures still working when such things happen?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-10_U6	Thank you for your question, Mr Sõerd, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. This is a case from 2007. Its roots are in time before the financial crisis, in the boom of that time. Now, if you look at the later period of 2008 and the subsequent years, the Estonian financial market as a whole learned a great lesson at the time. As far as we know, all major market players have since reviewed their organisations and identified potential risk areas. It's all been born a long time ago. I dare say that lessons have been learned since this last booming in 2007 and that this questionnaire has now been resolved. I would not like to make an assessment of a particular dispute, so let the court do its work here on the basis of concrete evidence. We always operate in a forum like the one we are today in the asymmetry of information. Our discussions would not be perfect and perhaps lead us to the wrong path. In saying this, I would also stress that under Section 54 of the Financial Supervision Authority Act, I have a duty of confidentiality, i.e. I cannot comment on every single fact.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-10_U7	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-10_U8	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Kessler, first of all, I would like to thank you for addressing this case of Danske Bank and the risks associated with e-residency, which are such painful questions, quite properly in your report. Recently, the Money Laundering and Terrorist Prevention Act has also been amended, and banks are asking all kinds of quite detailed questions to family members of people with even national backgrounds. My question is whether the practice of banks in implementing the new regulations is the same now. Is there no risk of overregulation here, given the very bad cases we have had? Perhaps there is too much detail and also too much detail on people's personal data, although there is no real reason for doubt.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-10_U9	Thank you for your question, Mr Herkel, a good member of the Riigikogu. This so-called "PEPs" is defined by the word politically exposed person "normality" derived from international rules originally established by an organisation such as Financial Action Task Force. It is a working group put together by the major powers, which provides certain standards and directions for setting anti-money laundering standards. The FATF has established a certain set of PEPs, I apologize for speaking with these abbreviations! For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions apply: From this norm, the European Union has, in turn, taken over the treatment of PEPs by means of a directive and Estonia has basically copied the European Union Directive on PEPs into its own law, as it should. Therefore, the regulation of the PEPs comes from internationally agreed standards and Estonia's manoeuvring space is small here. However, I also know from my own hands that, by looking at the size of our society, all of you and a few other people, perhaps even I, will be able to feel the burden of the PEP framework if we have to provide financial intermediaries with certain additional data about ourselves and our loved ones. It's inevitable. How each individual bank applies this regulation is a question of the bank's professional skills just how well it can make it suitable for its client for the questions it asks to get information about it. If, for example, this approach of the bank is not suitable for the client, he will be able to choose between 16 other banks in Estonia. So there should be competition in that sense. I know from my own hands, and now I am talking as a private person, not as a head of financial supervision, that these issues and standards really are a little different for banks.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-10_U10	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! In your report, you also mentioned e-residency and indicated that expectations for banks were too optimistic, as 95% of regulation is international. You said you were working together. My question, therefore, is this: if the whole society and the risks of today are described, including money laundering, etc., can the opposite effect not happen, that banks simply do not want to expand a certain package of services, just in case? There will be a conflict between certain packages of services, even if we cannot actually a priori say that it is very bad.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-10_U11	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-10_U12	Thank you! Yes, honourable Member of the Riigikogu Kruuse, that is a difficult question. I think that when this e-residency was put together and done, the foreign policy, the international environment, was a little different. This whole context was a little more lenient and therefore these expectations for the financial market were also different. But life is dynamic, time is changing. Yesterday we had news, for example, of how the United States is stepping out of the Iranian nuclear agreement, which in turn is clearly creating new tensions. I also referred in my speech to international financial sanctions and their transfer to the financial sector. The financial sector does not live immune to the functioning of the dollar, and I think it places a certain extra burden on the Estonian financial sector or, let's call it a more beautiful, due diligence obligation. In this sense, simply in the case of e-residency, it must be taken into account that such trends exist in the world, and somehow try to find a viable solution between the market and the public sector in order to preserve this project. As I said, I personally believe that this is the future of the financial sector, also globally. But perhaps, globally, it is not yet ready for this future because, on the other hand, these same international relations have some influence on the operation of this project.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-10_U13	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-10_U14	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I noted one small fact from many facts about investment service providers and especially those who may not be authorised. For last year, you mentioned that you made 100 more alerts than a year earlier, a total of 450. In this report you say that this pattern mainly concerns those who register in Estonia but who do not have an authorisation to provide financial services. My question concerns the effectiveness of the Financial Supervision Authority's action in this area in detecting these violations. Is the number of such infringements comparable to the number of warnings? Is it in any way correlated? That number was 450, which sounds really big.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-10_U15	Thank you for your question, Mrs Tiidus, a good member of the Riigikogu. These warnings are global. They come not only from Estonia, their roots are not only in Estonia, but across Europe we are sending warnings from our European colleagues. Why are we doing this? You see, the activity of crooks is mostly not limited to one country, but is very international. In our own house, we call these diagrams pentagonal-shapes, the branches of this pentagon are in different jurisdictions. For example, it is very popular lately, and I think that the part you have referred to in our report is also about this, that the Estonian private limited company is a legal body or one legal body through which one service is provided. Why is a private limited company in Estonia? Because they're relatively easy to set up here. I'm talking about the dark side now. One side of this business freedom is all good, you can quickly set up a private limited company. I love it too, but the dark side is that bad guys can do it very easily, too. The Estonian private limited company is one branch, there is a 'tank' from somewhere outside the European Union, there is one bank account, which is outside, there is one website that is outside Estonia, and clients are all outside Estonia. And in such a pentagon, where every "key moment" is located in different jurisdictions, money is cheated not at all from Estonian people, but mostly from foreign people. What are we gonna do? We are simply drawing attention to this and telling our people, Estonia, to be vigilant. The website of the Estonian Financial Supervision Authority lists all authorised persons who have the right to provide investment services. Check it out before you start giving your money to someone who promises you trees and lands together. This is the background to our description of the annual report. When it comes to the ability of the Financial Supervision Authority to deal with these matters, there are two components of the Penal Code: one is a fraud and the other is an investment fraud. The Financial Inspectorate is not involved in the implementation of criminal proceedings. What are we gonna do? One is the warning feature just let us know about things on our website and talk to people about them. The other thing is that we make crime reports to the police, especially when we see that there is a connection with the people of Estonia, that listen, this is the thing, see whether this is a crime or not. The law enforcement authorities, the prosecutor's office and the police will then, in turn, investigate it if they see that there is a suspicion of a crime.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-10_U16	Anne Sulling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-10_U17	Good President! Good waitress! In addition to financial stability, access to finance is equally important. You have a nice financial market review here. Since you were giving grades before, I wonder what grade would you give in Estonia to the availability of opportunities for financing companies in the field of advanced technology, both during the seed phase and during the escalation phase.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-10_U18	Thank you for your question, Mrs Sulling, Member of the Riigikogu. According to the law, it is not our function, or the Financial Supervision Authority, to investigate the availability of financing. However, the central banks, the European Central Bank and Eesti Pank do so. As far as we are aware of their analyses and investigations, on average in Estonia, there is no indication that financing for small or medium-sized enterprises is more available than in another European Union or euro area country. I mean, that's all I can say here. The assessment goes beyond FI's competence, so I'd only speculate if I thought anything about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-10_U19	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-10_U20	Thank you. Good waitress! I would like to begin by thanking you and congratulating you for what you have done both when you bring Lumori to Estonia, as mentioned above, as well as for regulating the provision of shares through ICOs or crypto money, for example, or, at the very least, for issuing, say, preventive rules and guidelines. I really like the fact that the Financial Supervision Authority thinks of itself as a partner, not just as a supervisor. My question, however, concerns the institutions and the activities of those who are not under your supervision, but whose actions are negatively affecting the solvency of the Estonian people. Perhaps by asking very simply, what is the current situation with all possible providers of express and SMS loans? What is the state of the market, how much is it currently harassing the Estonian people or affecting their solvency?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-10_U21	Thank you for your question, Mr Kõivas, a good member of the Riigikogu. The Riigikogu has decided to give rapid lenders to our supervision and we are monitoring them as a service. This means that we will see if the organisations of express lenders and other creditors comply with the requirements of the law. The emphasis and key issue here is whether the principle of "responsible lending" is respected. Now, let's say, the first phase of this project, after the law was introduced, was the authorisation, licensing of these companies. We have now completed this round, with over 70 creditors authorised on the market. The authorisation must be granted to creditors who grant loans to consumers, i.e. to natural persons, and commercial loans are out of there. The second phase that we have launched and which we have circled in more critical places last year is on-the-spot checks. We have appreciated the principle of responsible lending. In this segment, the picture is quite written. It includes leasing companies of large banking groups; it does indeed include instant lenders. It includes the so-called lending functions of large groups. I will, for example, bring Telia, who sells phones on hire, i.e. Telia is also subject to our supervision in this function. Since the picture is very written, there are also, as I said before, very different levels of fever. Some are quite healthy, 36.6, but some are still feverish, or organisations are not yet ready, because they have not been quite structured to comply with the principles of responsible lending. We have also guided businesses through our dialogue, or, in certain cases, with administrative instruments, to be legitimate, legitimate. So you could say that in some ways, this market has improved. We have also talked to our colleagues about consumer protection and asked how their senses are. They also argue that the fact that the law gave supervisory functions to the Financial Supervision Authority has limited the power to control fast lenders, for example in its adverts, etc. There are now some more segments that are symbolically important to Estonia. I would like to mention, for example, loan portals where people can invest or lend to various projects. They are, in fact, essentially unregulated at the moment. We have already made proposals to our partners from the Ministry of Finance about this a year or two ago that, listen, we see that risks have accumulated there, because this information is asymmetrical to investors, they are not properly informed. However, if we regulate this issue, this is one of the arguments to approach the European Commission and say that we are opening up the European market. I understand that my answer is causing a discussion session, that's a good thing. Both of these things work in the Ministry. So, on the one hand, we hope to have a minimum regulation in the area of single currency, and, on the other hand, I think that the European Commission is now quite similar to us to open up the single currency market to our businesses, too, because our business is quite well developed in this area.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-10_U22	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-10_U23	Thank you, good waitress. It's easy for me to understand you, but I've also appointed you, but I've had a hard time explaining exactly what you're doing and whether you're not a brake and an enemy of entrepreneurship. There have been speakers from every corner, and in some cases you may not have been the decision maker. If, for example, a fishing company closes the bill because it does not stop in Estonia but sells at sea, or the banker is taken away from the banker, even though he has gone there to be repaired, or orders are given from America or just someone's bill is closed or not opened, then your answers are always such: this is according to the law. At some point, you disappear into the box, but the world isn't just in the box. Would you also give some comforting messages that you have progress and positive messages about such partner status, and that the necessary things you do are not rigid and pessimistic to the end?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-10_U24	Thank you, Mr Ligi, a good member of the Riigikogu, for a good question. The first thing to begin with is not to misunderstand your colleagues: I have not been appointed by Mr Near, but by the Financial Supervision Board, which was also a member of Mr Near in his time. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] Perhaps I will also say that last year I had my first term of office, and the Council re-appointed me Chairman of the Board. But that's it. The world really isn't in the box, I totally agree with that. We must also monitor what is happening in our immediate area. In my speech, I also spoke about how the Latvian Parliament is dealing with banning banks from serving certain customer segments. The Estonian Parliament has not had to deal with this, as Estonian financial supervision does not operate in a box. He understands what's going on in foreign policy, he understands who our partners are, and he is acting in a proportionate manner and according to the law. Imagine if an executive authority were to act outside the law, so-called power and decision would be taken. I don't think it would be the rule of law anymore. I think that, in the rule of law, every branch of power must have a legislative branch, executive power and judicial authority to perform its function. They can't take over each other's functions. And that is exactly what the Financial Supervision Authority has done in a neutral and proportionate manner.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-10_U25	Jürgen Ligi, do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-10_U26	Yeah, because my name was. I have a procedural remark, and I'm taking this opportunity to use the waitress's style. According to the law, the questioner was correct. He appointed the Chairman of the Board, although he did not do so alone. So I don't have a problem with pride, I just have a positive personal relationship with a person. My identity in itself really has nothing to do with this.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-10_U27	Thanks for the comment. Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-10_U28	Good manager! Good waitress! I have not appointed you, but I ask from a common man's point of view. The main complaints concern loans, credit and settlements. If you look at our two major banks, it turns out that SEB's number of complaints is more than twice as high as Swedbank's. What's going on in SEB is with loans, credits and settlements, that's the number of complaints that concerns SEB.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-10_U29	It is difficult for me to comment on any particular subject of financial supervision on specific matters. However, I can say that the subjects of financial supervision, including banks, are quite different from their organisation and that there are also different ways of saying, customer handling practices, rules, etc., i.e. as professionally and how well they are able to communicate with the client. The bank may not always be right, the client may not always be right, and not all these complaints may be justified. What does the Financial Supervision Authority do about such complaints? We're going to take this complaint into our own hands. According to the law, we don't have the function of a middleman or a financial ombudsman. By the way, this is one of the topics that could also be analysed very seriously - whether the function of the financial ombudsman is needed in Estonia, so that the complaints you are referring to can be dealt with in essence. However, we take this complaint, we take the complainant's consent, we can be in dialogue with the bank, we are in dialogue with the bank, and then we try to be the so-called mediator in resolving this complaint. Some of them work out, some of them don't, some of them go to court. Returning to your question, yes, banks can and do have different styles and ways to deal with complaints. This is likely to show the different styles, strategies and different approaches of different banks to their clients.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-10_U30	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-10_U31	Thank you, good vice chairman. Thanks to the waitress! You have also been to the Committee on Legal Affairs to discuss the issue of combating money laundering, and there we have also discussed some of the possible legislative changes that need to be made to make your work more effective. One of the concepts you used is the reversal of the burden of proof. Would you please explain the content of this concept to all members of the Riigikogu? What has been the feedback so far? I realized that the banking union had already given its supporting position, but the Ministry of Justice had not yet given an answer at that point. Has this been received in the meantime, and what is their position? Have you also been in contact with our legal bodies on this issue, such as the prosecutor's office, the PBA, and what is their feedback?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-10_U32	Thank you for a very good question, Mrs Kübarsepp, a good member of the Riigikogu. I wouldn't want to decorate myself here with strange feathers. This burden of proof for confiscating or freezing certain, say, assets or funds in a bank account is not a proposal from the Financial Supervision Authority, but came to my knowledge from the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Estonian Banking Association. We're aware of that. We think it might be a good idea, but we should consider it. Let us wait and see what the pros and cons are, whether this may lead to some risk of abuse from the banks, but basically we are not opposed to this proposal. I know that our colleagues in the DA's office, for example, think that it may be too early to introduce such a thing. I would point out that the main institution responsible for preventing money laundering in Estonia is the Financial Intelligence Unit, not the Financial Supervision Authority. If the FIU could still fully implement some of its capabilities and competences, the burden of proof may not need to be applied. Now I'm trying to explain it more easily, as I understand it, because I'm not the author of this thing. It's something that if a client brings in a terrible amount of money to the bank and the bank asks, "Where did you get that money, but the client is not able to explain it convincingly," the bank might say that he'll freeze the money and the client won't get it back. That would be a human-language explanation for how I understand this design. Whether it is proportionate or disproportionate, I dare not say that. He certainly acts as a deterrent to people who really do deal with black money, but on the other hand, he creates a risk that the bank may also completely inadvertently abuse its authority. So everything has its pros and cons.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-10_U33	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-10_U34	Thank you. Honourable waitress! We went to see the Monetary Commission some time ago with the Banking Union, and there were a number of topics that you were talking about here today and which have been asked about. But I'm interested in a non-residents' bill-closure campaign, if that's what you might call it. As Jürgen Ligi said here before, at least on the city and among market participants, this has been said quite a bit. The Banking Union and the people involved in the prevention of money laundering said that they would comply with the provisions of this law, which are also due to the overall aim of preventing money laundering, but they would do so with two-ten percent care. They are very afraid of being wrong because, with a couple of or three mistakes, the Financial Supervision Authority is taking away their banking license and, in that sense, they are very careful. That's the question: aren't we throwing the baby out with this washing water? This threat seems to be quite high.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-10_U35	Thank you for a good question, Mr Onion, Member of the Riigikogu. I don't think it's worth taking the bank's stories literally, but I guess you should take it in Estonian with a certain coefficient, even though it's a foreign word, that they're about to take away the permit. It's good and comfortable for them to say, but let's look at the reality. The reality is that banks are part of the international financial market network. The Estonian economy may not be so significantly related to the dollar economy, but Sweden is. Sweden is very much involved in the dollar economy. What makes you think that internationally active large banks would somehow want to get hit by being either restricted or deprived of the dollar settlement right? This is the root reason why at least part of the banks are two hundred percent careful. Now, I think a hundred percent is also very okay, or even a little bit more. And those banks that are not connected to, for example, the Swedish economy or less are certainly also diligent, perhaps not two hundred percent. Let us now talk about the issue of non-residents' bank accounts. The first thing is that I have to come to the law, although here a member of the Riigikogu reprimanded me that I follow too much of the law, but I still try to assume that the function of the Financial Supervision Authority according to the law is not in itself to guarantee the availability of some financial services or to assess whether or not a customer receives this service. This is not our primary function. We are, in fact, not really aware at the moment of how big this problem really is, whether we are talking about tens of accounts, hundreds of accounts or thousands of accounts. At other times, it is also a phenomenon that individual shouts are amplified in social media and the public gets the impression that it is a huge, global issue and now it is all falling apart. I tend to think of my experience as a lawyer before working in the Financial Supervision Authority for quite a long time, and at the time when we had kroons, billions of kroons as investments in the economy in Estonia, I have advised that if there is a normal, transparent initial investment, banks do not tend to do much of an obstacle. The individual data we have on the closure of non-resident bank accounts show that this is not for good reason. In most cases, banks still have some reasonable reasoning, some real doubts as to why non-residents' bank accounts are closed or their use is restricted. Of course, I will say this again with a certain degree of generalisation, there may be exceptions to the fact that banks here do not want to be given full indulgence, but in general, these closures are not without reason either.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-10_U36	Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-10_U37	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress, Chairman of the Board of the Financial Supervision Authority, Mr Kessler, I too thank you for your presentation and, of course, for what you have done and I wish you strength. My questions relate to the Danish credit institution's Danske Bank case and its different shades. You said nicely that it was a different financial institution and it was under Danish jurisdiction. Could it be, though, that the bank branch came here consciously like this? Secondly, you also mentioned that, on the basis of your precepts, the matter was taken up and you highlighted international cooperation. Any hints that there are problems and suggestions came from your Danish colleagues, for example, or was it your initiative that was taken up in Denmark? You said that you now value those who operate in the financial market. How did you assess Danske Bank at the time, ten years ago? And last thing, its consequences. Are things in order now, and such large-scale money laundering incidents are ruled out as a result of our work and yours?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-10_U38	Thank you very much for many questions, Mr Hallemaa, a good member of the Riigikogu. Whether a credit institution operates as a branch in Estonia or has established a legal person within the framework of the European Union is a business decision, a free decision. It may be carried out as a branch or as a legal person. Financial supervision of whether it is a branch or an independent legal person cannot and, in most cases, does not want to intervene. How does the Financial Supervision Authority deal with the prevention of money laundering in the first place? Prevention of money laundering is a very broad concept in this case; it is not in our case what is said, criminal law or criminal law. In criminal law there is a'money laundering', there must be proof of certain elements. For us, the prevention of money laundering means that we are looking at whether the risk control function or system in financial intermediaries' organisations is adequate to the risks they take. For example, when it comes to providing services to non-residents, risk control must also be quite expensive or high quality. That's what we do. What is the information, and where does the information on which we will act come from? These sources are different: there are reporting, but there are also such reports, I don't know, it doesn't sound good, it sounds kind of police-related, i.e. we have people we talk to all the time. We're not just sitting on our block, we're communicating. Of course, even compared to 2014, our analysis and information collection methodology has evolved. We ourselves have evolved in this. We had information about Danske outside the house, but the in-house analysis also showed that there were plenty of risks. And in 2014-2015 we also informed the Danish supervision. This is now a question for the Danes when and how they will pick it up and realise it. I don't want to get involved, it's up to the Danish authority. Now, the Financial Supervision Authority ten years ago, I have a hard time commenting on this side. I mean, then I wasn't responsible for preventing money laundering and I didn't do it either. I know that in 2007, 2009 and probably a few years later, the Financial Supervision Authority visited Danske Bank on the spot and has also made corresponding administrative acts. At that time, too, shortcomings were discovered, but they were not of the scale and nature of what we discovered in 2014 and as a result the bank finally closed down this business.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-10_U39	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that, according to the rules of procedure and the rules of procedure, we have one question and the time limit for submitting it is up to one minute. Meelis Mälberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-10_U40	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Head of the Financial Supervision Authority! I will continue to develop the issue of the regulations of my good colleague Andres Herkel. My question is not about PEP, but about the bank's regular services. The most common banking service is probably a transfer. We all probably remember the time when we were making a bank transfer, it got to the beneficiary in minutes, and somehow it became the norm. Now the situation is that the transfer will reach the payee in perhaps hours, and the money won't move at all on the weekend. How can we ensure that our banks can offer their customers a fast and convenient service and that regulation and supervision are not hindered?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-10_U41	Mr Mälberg, thank you for this question. I think that its addressees are primarily central banks. The operation of the entire payment system, as well as supervision, is a function of central banks, and the euro area has a European Central Bank which operates our payment system, and which also sets standards and speeds. This question is probably due to the fact that there was a better, faster and better quality service before, but at some point a setback has come because everything has become a little slower. Once again, I may speak too much for the central bank here again, but as far as I know, the central bank of Estonia and some Estonian credit institutions have joined such a very fast euro area payment system where transfers can be made in a few minutes. To date, an Estonian credit institution has joined it, whose name, unfortunately, I cannot name, could advertise itself more. Payments should be made very quickly through this credit institution. The payment system is evolving. On the other hand, with your question, you also touched on the fact that this could be a place where, let's say, new market participants could compete with their technology and offer a more comfortable or faster service to the consumer. That's how I see it. Above all, the point of your question was directed towards the central banks, but I would not want to take their role in any way and take too much to speak on their behalf, because otherwise this could have sad consequences.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-10_U42	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-10_U43	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Kessler, first of all, thank you. The Yearbook of the Financial Supervision Authority is equipped with perfectly good data this year, so our comments, which lasted for two years, now have a very beautiful result. But my question actually concerns insurance. The Financial Supervision Authority also supervises insurance undertakings and insurance intermediaries. I read these parts, they were balanced, and there weren't a lot of problems here. Do you think there is a lack of insurance on the Estonian market that is needed, or are there other more acute problems here? Unfortunately, I didn't find anything about the problems in this book.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-10_U44	Dear Member of the Riigikogu, Mrs Aru, thank you for the question and also for this observation. As I promised you, we'll learn. This is slow, but we are still fulfilling our commitments and promises. Therefore, ISSN numbers, compilers etc. are now available there. As far as insurance is concerned, generally speaking of non-life insurance, there is a fairly good competitive situation in Estonia. This is positive to the consumer in the sense that prices should be affordable, although they are constantly changing. In the case of non-life insurance, first and foremost, I mean car insurance, car insurance and motor insurance at all, and property insurance normally associated with housing loans are quite competitive. However, once again, it is simply an observation, because competition is not our mandate, it is the administration of the Competition Authority. The area where we see problems is life insurance. According to the law, we have an honorable function for life insurers to pay out the second pillar. There are actually two or three life insurance companies in Estonia who are ready to provide this service. We feel that competition is not very high there. In answer to your question of whether there are any problem areas, this is the second pillar pension payout phase and life insurance. We have also been here in dialogue with the parties. Once again: this is not our function, our function is financial supervision, but we have put a certain, say, financial groups here to think about whether they suddenly see a business opportunity here and want to come to the Estonian life insurance market. It is permissible to analyse this situation as feedback. But this is a wider issue, the second pillar and the pension system as a whole. We generally don't like two things in the inspection. Firstly, we do not like to see a very thorough overhaul of one part of the system. Life shows that then the second part tends to transform, but this system needs to be viewed as a whole. The other thing is, we're conservative in nature. The pension system is the kind of thing that requires statics and peace, so it can work. If you change him all the time, you don't get good skin. If you change, as a whole, let him act in peace, or not change at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-10_U45	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-10_U46	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! My question concerns e-residency and the risks involved, which you briefly touched in your speech today, but not too many have come up as questions. When the e-residency initiative was launched in 2015, there was a very large and optimistic plan for 10 million e-residents in ten years. I think it's 35,000 now, but there's already been a lot of problems and problems with it. You have also said yourself that this is not only fun and fun, but also requires very strong risk mitigation measures and control mechanisms. How can these two things now be put together in such a way that non-residents can still have access to banking services, and we can go on with perhaps a successful project at national level in the future? Where is this balance, and were you not involved enough in this matter in advance?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-10_U47	Thank you for a good question, Mrs Haukanõm, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. The honest answer, starting at the end, is this: did not involve yes. We were out of the picture until recently. In this sense, when this project was being carried out, only possibilities were likely to be explored, perhaps rightly, and were delighted that such a good idea had arisen, and it had to be realised in a hurry. I totally understand that, too. If we look at the subjects of financial supervision, they always have two sides who compete a little bit. One is the side of sales, you remember, the oil erupted from the couch and so on, and the other is the side of risk control, who always say no-no, don't go to the sofa shop at all, you don't need to buy a couch at all. I represent, if you look at the state, the side that says don't poke at all. In doing this project, perhaps the side of the Conservatives, who see risks everywhere, was somehow hidden. Maybe it was good. I'm not competent, I'm not justified in evaluating it, but he was. How do you get out of there? I can see it, and it is very positive, that now these risks, or the environment, have changed as well as the external environment. It cannot be said that international relations were static. We saw Georgia, Crimea and all this getting sharper. We are a border country, we have Russia here, and we have clearly positioned that Estonia is a member of NATO and our main defence partner is the United States. We can't ignore that. This thing is all the time the year on, the more sharpened. This, however, makes the financial market feel immediately, very simply because it is very international. This may have made our financial markets, our banks more conservative. How do you get out of there now? Firstly, it must be acknowledged that such risks exist. The denial phase is over, now it's an awareness phase that okay, really exists. In my speech, I also referred to the fact that it is good to have banks and ministries interacting with each other, not by giving direction on how to do it, but by understanding that there are problems, and by trying to find working solutions together to make the project work, but the banks are not getting it. The European Union. You can argue if it's good or bad. One good thing in the European Union is, in my opinion, the common market, which gives small countries the opportunity to sell their goods and services to a very large number of people. I say this: the issue of e-residency can always be overcome with the common market. This means that if these customers are so attractive, there is a common market for banking in the European Union. Some financial service providers still want to serve these e-residents. Why should we remain stuck in the Estonian market? How that saying is, if the cripple doesn't want to walk, you can't force him. Why are we forcing these Estonian subjects? If they do not want to take it, let some French banks or Finnish payment institutions take it, as they have done in part. God with him. Let the common market work. E-residents are happy, can sign, digitally use e-services in Estonia, but the "move money" side is somewhere abroad. It's one of the simplest solutions. But let the banks and the ministries work a little bit, we will try to participate with our constructive criticism this time, too, so let's see where we get out. It is possible to design such a model service and model-e-resident that could be acceptable to everyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-10_U48	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-10_U49	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, first of all, thank you for your presentation. But the questions concern the Estonian branch of Danske Bank. How long did the Estonian branch of Danske Bank last for mediation of suspicious financial transactions of non-residents? You mentioned that for the first time this was highlighted in 2009, but in fact the process became more visible in 2015‐2016. And the second question is: was the activities of the Danske Bank branch in Estonia or was the scheme deliberately designed to money laundering for non-residents?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-10_U50	Thanks for the questions. I will begin by answering the last question: was there a deliberate scheme for money laundering? I also tried to explain earlier that as our financial supervisory authority, we do not deal with categories of criminal proceedings. In this sense, we cannot say that we do not have the corresponding competence, either, in the form of what happened through the Danske Bank branch, was money laundering within the meaning of criminal law. We don't know that. However, we do know that Danske Bank served non-residents from different regions, such as Azerbaijani roots, Russian roots, etc. These non-residents were involved in suspicious transactions, and Danske Bank provided payment services to them. Danske Bank's risk control was not what it should have been for such a business, and it made quite a lot of money in this business. In this sense, it is difficult to answer whether it was intentional or not. I think there's definitely a willful desire to serve. I'm sure that desire is natural in every business. Whether or not there was intent is hard to judge. Our own work doesn't even get that complicated and philosophical. We are looking at whether or not the standards are being met. If they don't, we'll react. Whether the rules are not being complied with intentionally or foolishly, we do not even care, because this is a category of criminal law and there are different levels of intent, etc. In our financial supervision, we will see if the standards are or are not being complied with. If not, there are two options: either (a) clean yourself up and comply with the standards or (b) close your business. Danske chose this last option. Now, how long was it? There are non-residents in Estonian banking. And not only in Estonian banking, because Estonia is not special in this sense. There's money coming from somewhere, and he's going somewhere. Estonia is a transit country, if you could say so. Don't make it look like we're the worst mudhole ever. It's not like that at all. There are large internationally active banks here, Deutsche Bank, Commerzbank, French banks, English-rooted banks, and they have all been getting pretty close to the supervisors of America, the United Kingdom and some other countries for exactly the same reasons. Well, I guess it's not until later that this is a problem. As I have already said here, the importance of preventing money laundering or the right awareness of it has changed in time. It is still in a certain context of international relations, the more strained economic blocs or national relations get, the more the issue of preventing money laundering will rise. It is one such instrument of exercising power, if you could quite say so. Just to tell you once again, if, for example, banks want to settle in a particular currency, this currency is issued by a particular country, its particular institution, it has the exclusive right to do so. The same country also dictates the rules under which this currency may be handled or transferred. If those rules are infringed, that State may, directly or indirectly, restrict the handling of such currency. I'm talking about facts. That's how life works in the financial world, and that's just what you have to take into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-10_U51	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-10_U52	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good speaker! You also control investment funds and pension funds. As I understand it, everything is more or less in order of the norm, but more broadly, the fees for Swedish banks operating here, for example, are much higher than in their home country. The fees charged by our funds are significantly higher, but at the same time their productivity is much lower. This is not directly relevant to the Financial Supervision Authority, but it is. What is your assessment of this situation? What's that all about?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-10_U53	Thank you for your question, Mr Põlluaas, a good member of the Riigikogu. I think that the point of this issue is likely to be directed towards the second pillar of the pension. If you look at the Estonian investment fund market, most of it is second-pillar pension funds, and probably your question also concerns the second pension pillar. It's a model question again. Estonia is a small country, we have few people, there are only over a million of us here. How specifically to shape the pension system, isn't it possible here at one end there may be a national system where there is only one fund and the state itself manages it, on the other end there may be such a system, I don't know whether it can even be called a system, where people are completely free to make their own pension decisions, or whether they decide whether to collect anything at all. One system is very liberal, the other is exactly the opposite, and all other mechanisms will be skipped. In the case of Estonia, due to its small size, it must be taken into account that it determines both these certain rates of remuneration and, in some respects, its rate of return. In the case of productivity, as management companies themselves say, the wrong decisions that have been made also play a role. The same 2007 we were talking about here before the helicopter was spilled, if you could say so, into local businesses the money that later went sour, and the local pension funds were hit hard with it. This factor is also included in this return and this leads to a slightly lower rate of return. That's one side. The other half is the fees for the funds. There has been an active state there, and I hope that it will continue to be active in addressing or suppressing these charges. One side is the country that can do it, the other side is competition. We have seen here in the spring of this year a new management company came to the market. In fact, before the coming of the market, however, there was a trend in which management companies operating in the market saw that they would now have to lower their fees and bring similar funds to the market. That is what they did, and this actually led to a reduction in the remuneration of the second pillar pension funds. Perhaps the impact of competition was quite tangible; the future impact on pension fund fees was noticeable. But now we're going to get to that human factor. It has been studied, and it is called the "I don't know how in Estonian it would be a behavioral economy or economics, behavioral economics. People, especially in the financial sector, tend to be quite lazy, i.e. they cannot study the best offers all the time. I'll take mine. I've been sitting in the same bank with my finances for 18 years. I'm not always looking for where I can get a cheaper and better service. I'm so comfortable I'm still there. I feel that the fees are so low, even though they aren't, because they're pretty high in the collection. However, this is not just an Estonian issue, but just human nature is such that in general, not many changes are always wanted. This is also one reason why people do not look for the cheapest and most suitable ones for the second pillar. That's where we get to consumer education. The Financial Supervision Authority has its own consumer education website, myraha.ee, where we try to show people through comparative tables where there are better offers, loan, second pillar funds or payment services to bring some information symmetry to people.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-10_U54	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-10_U55	Thank you, Mr. Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! The yearbook page on pension funds states that pension funds are primarily exposed to political risks and that they are linked to the legislator. Maybe you're suggesting what our hall here might screw up so we stay out of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-10_U56	Thank you for your question, Mr Põldaru, a good member of the Riigikogu. This political risk means that the second pillar of the pension system and the managers who participate there depend very much on the law that creates it. This system involves a great many people, all of whom are voters, and as your representatives of the people, you actually reflect the voters' feelings, thoughts, wishes. [[A comment from the floor.]] Doesn't? You still do. That means the law can change all the time. That's what I said before. But for one business, if his "legislative environment" changes all the time, it's a problem. He doesn't know how to assess it exactly, what he has to do, whether he can continue to be on the market or not how long he has to make his business plans, etc. It's a risk. Now, if you're asking if it's a big risk or a small risk, I don't think it's a very big risk, but it's still a risk. I think it is correct to mention this among the other risks. There are no other risks in second-pillar pension funds, but there is a risk of changing laws. Don't get it at all, it's kind of negative. It's just inevitable. The legislator has such a role under the Constitution, and it's very okay, so it should be, but just by looking at business, it's a risk.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-10_U57	Igor Kravtšenko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-10_U58	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! As we know, the owners of a bank in liquidation in Latvia went to court against the European supervisory authorities. There has been a similar case in Estonia recently. Do you think that a similar step by the owners of this niche bank in Estonia is excluded? Now, looking back, was your decision to deprive this bank of its license right?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-10_U59	Thank you for your question, Mr Kravtšenko, a good member of the Riigikogu. Starting from the end, I would like to clarify and it is very important that, as of 4 November 2014, all credit institutions in the euro area are granted and revoked by the European Central Bank. The Member States of the euro area have given up this right, so to speak, we no longer have the right to do so. However, the competent authorities of the European or euro area Member States will be able to propose to the European Central Bank whether or not a single bank's authorisation should be revoked. Your question probably referred to Versobank AS and its withdrawal of its licence. That is exactly what happened there, we proposed it, the European Central Bank considered it thoroughly, analysed all the evidence and made a decision on it. So it didn't happen overnight, because we looked out the window, it's such a beautiful day, we're taking the license from one of the banks. Not at all, it was preceded by a very long and thorough process, there were also a number of dialogues with the bank, with no positive developments in the bank. Withdrawal of authorisation is an endgame that is understandable and visible to the public. It really didn't happen overnight. As regards the right of persons to address and deal with matters before the courts, this right naturally exists. I am not in a position to predict whether or not individuals will exercise this right, but I would like to stress that, if they want to go to court, the decisions of the European Central Bank are verifiable before the Court of Justice of the European Union. This court proceedings, when it begins, will take place before the Court of Justice of the European Union and will have parties to the European Central Bank and the complainants.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-10_U60	Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-10_U61	Thank you, Mr President. Good Kilvar! I have a question about insurance. Today, about a year ago, the Riigikogu adopted a legislative amendment that allows different transport platforms to offer a service, we solved it in the form of such modern taxi regulation. However, there is still one problem on the agenda now: it concerns insurances that are extremely rigid and who do not actually have products for demand transport or on-demand services. I don't even know if you're the right person to ask, but still. What should happen to make insurance companies more flexible? Should there be more competition, or can there be something to do with the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-10_U62	Thank you for your question, Mr Palling, a good member of the Riigikogu. In order to respond accurately, specific circumstances should be known from where this alleged reluctance comes from, etc. When you think of a market economy, usually demand and supply should be a price issue. If it's not a price question now, you should know where the problem is. As a matter of fact, once when I wasn't a financial supervisor, I was a lawyer, and now no one dares to talk to me like that anymore, so I talked to an insurance company. He said, "Hey, I'd make sure you got a burning house, just the cost of insurance comes to the value of restoring the house," so it doesn't matter. Everything can be done in itself, it is a question of price, but if there is any other special nuance, then maybe we can continue to discuss it outside this hall in order to understand better what the problem is. In general, I do not tend to have the belief that, in the case of individual cases, everything should be resolved immediately by law. Because normally, when you regulate something by law, everything seems nice and good, and it looks like it's done, but then this transformation can be transferred to some other relationship in society, and then you start regulating it again by law. However, this moving target can continue to be regulated. Finally, there is too much regulation, as we see here, being also part of the European Union. In my field, if you read this yearbook, over 400 pieces of legislation and we measure them in kilos, not in pages. So we're gonna make it to this world, but I don't know if it's good. When you read the Constitution, our country is founded on freedom, justice and justice. First of all, freedom, that must be borne in mind. In order to respond correctly and exhaustively, it should be better to understand exactly what this problem is.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-10_U63	Tiit Terik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-10_U64	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Good waitress! I have a question about savings loan cooperatives. You have talked about the banks and the joys and concerns associated with them, but if I know correctly, the savings and loan cooperatives do not come under the supervision of the Financial Supervision Authority. What is your view of these institutions as a professional? Would they need more effective supervision?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-10_U65	Thank you for your question, Mr Terik, a good member of the Riigikogu. Supervision of savings and loan cooperatives is one such issue that we have actually raised with the central bank in our dealings with our good partners and the Ministry of Finance. We have no idea if I'm going to reveal a very big secret now, but you can't have secrets in front of you next week, just one meeting between these parties: the central bank, the Financial Supervision Authority and the Ministry of Finance. We are discussing how to move forward with the issue of savings and loan cooperatives, whether to regulate them in any way, increase supervision or what to do there. They now have one law that is quite abstract and short. On the one hand, the loan portfolio of savings and loan cooperatives is negligible, which is not very significant. On the other hand, in recent years, in recent years, they have sometimes promoted themselves in such a way that ordinary people have the impression that it is a bank. There's an awful lot of good interest on the deposit, so it sounds like a good idea. There's a little nuance. We also organise consumer education days, where I have given lectures myself, and there has also been a hall full of pensioners. They're asking if they could put their money in some kind of savings loan union. I say, listen, if anything happens to your bank, you will still get your deposit back, according to the law, up to 100,000 guaranteed from the Guarantee Fund, but in the case of savings and loan cooperatives, for example, this is not an option. I'm asking if you know that. The old man says he doesn't know, oh, come on, now the coffin money... A true story. They don't know. In this sense, what bothers us a little bit is that savings and loan cooperatives take advantage of the safe image of banking and drive like it does. If I am speculating now, because the debate is not until next week, then perhaps it would be worth looking at in favour of'service supervision'. But once again, let's be realistic, and financial supervision is not a free service in this sense. All supervisors pay for supervision and it can be said that this service is not cheap. On the side of savings and loan cooperatives, you can hear all kinds of votes, part of it says you can supervise, part says you don't want it. If the Financial Supervision Authority were to be the one to supervise, it would not be free of charge for market participants, it would also have to be taken into account. But the question of analysis is a good theme. We actually acknowledged this to our partners at the beginning of last year, not this year, but at the beginning of last year. We had a joint seminar between the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank and the Supervisory Board of the Financial Supervision Authority, where it was discussed. Let's see where we're going with this. In the FI, we think that when we see how this sector is developing, it would make sense to start gradually on this issue, particularly perhaps from the point of view of consumer protection or supervision of services.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-10_U66	Kilvar Kessler, Chairman of the Management Board of the Financial Supervision Authority, there are no questions for you more members of the Riigikogu. I thank the members of the Riigikogu for asking questions and you for your thorough answers.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-10_U67	I'm gonna get my papers out of here. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] It's gonna take a little while. I dropped them sometimes. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-10_U68	I will open negotiations for representatives of the political groups. If Mr Kessler has appeared from behind this remote control and has already appeared, then I would like to invite Mr Andres Herkel, representative of the Free Party Group. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-10_U69	Mr President! On behalf of the Free Party Group, I would like to thank Mr Kessler for this review and, in my opinion, for the very good answers. The Annual Book of the Financial Supervision Authority gives the impression that it is a proper institution, both in its content and in its form, and that it also has an impression. These things can be commended. However, we have indeed touched on the painful issues that I referred to in my question, both the problems of e-residency, which certainly directly affect banking supervision, and the unfortunate cases related to money laundering through banks operating in Estonia. These are the things I'd like to stop for a while. First of all, this statement that we are at a stage of awareness of risks, including on e-residency issues, is important in our opinion; the risks must be recognised. There was a statement here that we can be more or less confident in the countries of the European Union, but there are only 28 of them. I have just opened the e-residency newsletter and it turns out that e-residency applications have actually come from more than 150 countries. There is no doubt that, with regard to the prevention of money laundering, banking supervision and the more conservative elements that we as a country have to apply, the risks are quite high. However, it is probably possible to move forward from the awareness phase to the problem-solving phase. Now about what's going on with Danske Bank. In fact, these bad things already happened in about 2014, perhaps earlier, and 2015 started to take action. I actually asked last year for an analogous review of a very specific case concerning an Italian politician of the Council of Europe who was suspected of receiving a favour of more than EUR 2 million, which also came through Danske Bank. This was linked to the alleged influence of one vote on the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, in order to show one country, namely Azerbaijan, in a better light. Mr Kessler then replied as he could correctly respond to such institutions as the Financial Intelligence Unit and the Financial Supervision Authority must probably hold half their mouths when specific matters are discussed and gave an overview of how the prevention of money laundering generally works. At this point, as an informed person, I can say that it has become one of the largest cases of political corruption in Europe that have been dealt with by the former human rights judges of the Council of Europe. They have a committee of three, to whom I, too, have given testimony as a present but also as a former active member of this assembly. This concerned both Azerbaijan's reports and the monitoring committee. They have now come to a proper report on alleged corruption at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. This concerns dozens of European politicians who have also been advised to withdraw from their international commitments if they still have them. For the most part, these things concern even what happened earlier, not only the money that went through the Estonian branch of Danske Bank in 2014, but unfortunately Estonia continues to repeat there in connection with the so-called laundromat or washing machine case and the Estonian branch in relation to Danske Bank. Here it may be quite appropriate to point out that Äripäev and the International Press Consortium have done a good job in this area. We hope that the measures taken by the Financial Supervision Authority will continue to preserve Estonia's reputation so that everything will not happen again. I also wanted to mention the financial intelligence unit in particular, because it was their activity that started to branch out to a large extent. So if there are such doubts, you have to turn and then they'll investigate them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-10_U70	Thank you, Mr. Herkel. The representatives of the political groups have no more wishes for words. I'm closing the negotiations. We've been through today's agenda. Thank you all. Happy Thursday! Closure of the sitting at 11.32 a.m.
