ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. Question Time. And as usual, we'll start with the presence check. Please, presence check! There are 36 delegates present. The questions of today's Question Time will be answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Minister of Education and Science Mailis Reps and Minister of the Environment Siim Kiisler. As there are eight questions, I will also give you one additional question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U2	The first question is for the Prime Minister and the questioners are represented by Martin Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U3	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Prime Minister! We actually addressed this issue on Monday. And on Monday, when we spoke about the government's decision to take 80 refugees from Turkey, you tried to convince us that this would be a logical continuation of the promise made by the previous government in 2015 to bring 550 displaced persons to Estonia. However, in the explanatory memorandum accompanying this decision in Turkey, it is very clear that Estonia considers the resettlement programme concluded in 2015 to be complete. And here we have a problem. I also read the European Commission's recommendations, which make it clear that this agreement signed in 2015 is half outstanding. There are now 50,000 more people to be re-distributed and more refugees to be re-distributed in the future. Why is this government involved in bringing immigrants to Estonia in the same way as the previous government?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U4	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Members of the Riigikogu! Good questioner, thank you! I think that is the case, as I said here a few days ago in response to the questions: it is a good thing that this debate about the mother of migration and refugees and the European Union is held here in this respectable Chamber of the Riigikogu. And I'm glad we're going to continue this today. So thank you, Mr Helme, and EKRE for their constructive questions. I wouldn't say we have a problem, as you said, with this explanatory statement or document. On the contrary, I think that it is great that we belong to the European Union, that we want to be part of it. In fact, I have not quite understood it in this sense, but this debate is also good in the eyes of the public, what the EKRE thinks of the European Union. You're kind of flirting with the idea of a public survey or a public vote, whether or not to belong to it. I think it is right to state our firm position here, either yes or no, for the European Union. I think that Estonia has been taking a very rare opportunity for 13 years; it has been the right way. True, the latest polls show that now these people are already 2% more than 79% of Estonians support membership of the European Union. Yes, you are right, the Commission has made its proposal. But it's voluntary. You are also right in what you read, that Estonia has not fulfilled the obligation that previous governments have taken on refugee numbers. He's taken a lot less of them. But this cannot only be blamed on Estonia, because there is always another side of this process, too, that refugee or refugee family must agree with it. And Estonia has really gone this way to make a proposal to the honourable Riigikogu for this 50000, within the limits of its power and possibilities, i.e. 2018 40 and 2019 40. I'm sorry I went past the deadline!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U5	Martin Helme, an additional question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U6	Thank you. As far as our attitude towards the European Union is concerned, I do not understand whether, in your opinion, Latvia, Poland, Hungary or the Czech Republic are currently not part of the European Union. They have said clearly no to the resettlement of people from Turkey. And when we talk about a European Union that we like or do not like, we really do not like a European Union that sits on the heads of the Member States and says that you are taking so many niggers or Muslims. I will now read the Commission's recommendations again. It explicitly states that there is a need to move towards a stable and stable resettlement framework. When resettlement under existing schemes ends, new permanent schemes must be continued. And at the end of all, it is said that, ultimately, 1.2 million people need to be resettled at present. Therefore, Estonia can voluntarily participate in the next quota system, the word 'quota' is, of course, spasticly avoided, but this is only the beginning. We are talking about 50,000 in the next two years, but we are explicitly told that 1.2 million people are still in line. If we agree now, how will we say no in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U7	Thank you. I think that this debate is becoming more clear, and that is a good thing. Latvia, Poland and some of the other countries you mentioned, of course, want to be part of the European Union. They will continue to be part of it and, in general, the solidarity between its external dimension and its internal dimension must be recognised. If we look at refugee flows, such as the flow of migrants across the Mediterranean, it has indeed decreased as a result of the efforts of all 28 countries and the solidarity of the external dimension. There's no question at all. This has also been reduced because the European Union has managed to make agreements with countries outside the Union. The main agreement, of course, relates to the European Union and Turkey. We see that there are now over 3 million refugees in Turkey, and the contribution of the European Union to it has ensured that these refugees remain in Turkey. They have not come to the European Union. Now, after all, the refugee of war, which we are mainly talking about, or the refugees whose lives or health are in danger. For them, too, the solidarity of the same external dimension, the African Trust Fund, has been very important. There, all the countries have contributed with strength. Estonia has also contributed to this, in order to address the root causes of migration, not the causes of transit. What else do I want to say? Indeed, Estonia has shared this principle in the European Union - solidarity is, I dare say, the most important cornerstone for the European Union. And so we are together on both good and difficult issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U8	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U9	Prime Minister! I am, unfortunately, beginning to question your spiritual stability when I listen to your answers, which are not at all the answers to the questions. The question was asked how we can turn down the following relocation proposals if the European Commission estimates 1.2 million people to be resettled. People who come from Ethiopia, Sudan, Egypt and Chad and who are not refugees under the Refugee Convention, or asylum seekers, are called refugees, but that is why. The day before yesterday, when you answered the question, you did not know how much it would cost to relocate 80 persons to Estonia in two years. I hope you work with your soul and heart and have reviewed these facts in two days. Please give a more precise number now, without any talk that we do not need to hear, how much it will cost our taxpayer to bring 80 people to Estonia in two years.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U10	Thank you, Mr. Madison. You must be here for the first time in the Riigikogu, in its composition. So I may understand the irritation and what you said about this spiritual stability. But I think you're gonna get some good experience here, and you're gonna keep going. Now, point 1: these 80 refugees have not been brought to Estonia. Point 2: Estonia has indeed voluntarily said that it is willing to accept them. When you ask how much this is going to cost, I think I pointed out, in answer to the first question, that we have not actually fulfilled the commitments that Estonia has made. And it's not just that we didn't want to meet them. The reason has also been very clear that the other party has actually said: 'No, we do not want to come to Estonia. ' As a high politician in the Riigikogu, including the Vice-Chairman of the European Union Affairs Committee, you know very well that Estonia does not receive people in such a way that we do not know their background. You know that it goes there to investigate the people of the social sector, the defence police and the Police and Border Guard Board, and it is only on the basis of these interviews that they find out if they find out whether Estonia is receiving or not. There is still so much of the adoption that, in the very final part of our Presidency (I am now talking, of course, about relocation), we also proposed in the European Union that people can only be received if the host country is ready for this. Now for the financial part that you asked about. I say again that point 1, if we have not yet received refugees, and point 2, if we do not know exactly which municipalities they are going to, it will be impossible to tell you this cost today from a cent.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U11	In accordance with our agreement, I will conclude on this issue so that all eight issues can be discussed within one hour.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U12	Artur Talvik will ask the Environment Minister Siim Kiisler.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U13	Thank you. Good minister! The Nature Protection Act states that an innovation cut in a restricted zone is prohibited unless otherwise stated by the Protection Code. In recent years, there has been a situation where protection rules have been amended in the restricted zones so that this "other" has become a norm. The exception is a few more restricted zones where protection rules have not been updated. This means that clear cutting has become completely acceptable in the restricted zones. Who made such a decision, and why has there been such a change of direction when the law says otherwise?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U14	Thank you. Each code of protected area shall be decided individually by the Government. I do not agree with you that there has been a change of direction here. As far as I've been following previous rules, it's always been the way you described it. As a general rule, the rules of the protected area allow for an innovative cutting in the restricted zone. The restriction zone is defined by the Nature Conservation Act and, as the name even says, it is the zone where the objectives of the Protection Code are achieved even in the case of limited management. If these two objectives cannot be reconciled, the area shall be included in the protection zone. In recent years, even during my term as a minister, the direction is clearly taken that we are renewing the protection rules and, rather, reducing the restriction zone. Very many areas are moving into the target protection zone, so that the situation is clearer, but in the other way, we take some out of the defence area at all, if that makes sense. We still have to take into account that we are talking about a zone with restrictions, and these restrictions must be proportionate.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U15	A further question from Artur Talvik.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U16	Thank you, Minister. However, our rapid investigation revealed that, in the last three years, at least nine restricted zones have introduced such an amendment to the protection rules. Maybe what you said isn't quite true. These protection rules before banned clear cutting and now allow it. Only four protected areas with an old protection code are prohibited from clear cutting. Who came up with such a decision, and what is behind it? Is there also a need to get more wood out of the restricted zones? After all, the cutting and other cutting are allowed there: they are done and have been done in the past.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U17	Thank you, Mr. Talvik. I have here such a large table of data taken out that exactly how much cutting has been done in recent years: by species and by hectares. You see, here are all the species, time-bound felling, track cutting, lighting cutting, etc., and over the years, the trends that have emerged in the restricted zones. First of all, I say this, and this concerns, in particular, clear cutting, that the pressure on the parcels belonging to RMK has been very low, this is a very marginal part. Rather, we are talking about private owners who, of course, have an interest in managing their forest in the restricted zone. There has been a number of large-scale forest notifications accepted. But if we look at it as a whole, the peak year was 2013, when cutting permits were issued for 12575 hectares. For example, in 2016, this number was 8834, i.e. licences were granted almost a third less. In general, the trend has been maintained for many years at this 10,000 acres. I'll be happy to e-mail you this table later so you can analyze it. What comes out of this is indeed that in recent years the volume of clear cutting has increased somewhat in hectares, but the volume of sanitary cutting has decreased equally. We're talking about reports from the forest. We have to consider that real logging is probably about 40% less. It seems to me that there is such a phenomenon here that in the cases previously called sanitary cutting, although everything was done out, it is now said more correctly that it is clear cutting. If we add up these two numbers, the volumes are the same.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U18	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U19	Thank you, Mr President. Very honorable Minister! Certainly, the subject of the forest does not leave any Estonians cold. Here, too, there have been heated debates about this. Many forest scientists have said in this hall that Estonia is actually moving in the direction where the overhaul is a daily activity. But now people have another fear. As this is a very warm winter, it means that in order to fill the volume and fill the government's register, RMK must also be cut very intensively from the edge of roads and routes. This is, in my opinion, very negative, both visually, when we look at Estonia as a whole and from the point of view of certain strategic defence issues. Can you disprove this fear, or do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U20	Due to weather conditions, we do not have final summaries of the total felling volume of the previous year will be less than that of the previous year, for example. If it is worried that chopping will continue to grow, then this does not apply for last year as a whole. There are also objective reasons for this, and it can have a very strong impact on the start of this year, hence on the results of this year. One way or another, the problem is that too much is being cut. If you stop at it again, there will be considerably less of the volumes prescribed in the forestry development plan approved by the Riigikogu. It can be argued whether the Riigikogu made a good decision or a bad decision, but it is a separate issue. However, the development plan has certainly been rather conservatively respected in this respect. As regards the question of where to cut down in a situation where the forest floor is soft, to higher and dryer places. They may be on the side of the road, but that may not be the case.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U21	I will conclude the debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U22	The third theme will be introduced by Jürgen Ligi. The question is for Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U23	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister! Your Minister of Infrastructure has become regrettable in order not to say that he is connected to a corrupt pattern. And, as usual, he's a good attacker instead of a meaningful explanation. Now he attacked the opposition because of its arrogant attitude towards regional policy, but you are not doing so. Please explain one thing: how regional balance is affected by the fact that you prefer to share taxpayers' money, which we have all worked hard, through the percentage of income tax. What is the result of this regional policy? How does this affect regional balance? I'm just asking you to answer that!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U24	Thank you. One of the cornerstones of this government has indeed been linked to a change in the tax-free minimum. I think this is the biggest change in the Estonian tax system of this century, which will certainly contribute very much to increasing the coherence and solidarity of Estonian society. We can see that from an increase in the tax-free minimum from EUR 180 to EUR 500, very many people of working age, those who work, but also those who are retired, will win. It is true that there are a certain number of retired workers who have to contribute more here. If you ask about the regional policy dimension, it is no secret that incomes are considerably smaller than the centres outside, in the so-called outlying regions of Estonia. These people will certainly benefit from this change in terms of their monthly net income.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U25	Jürgen Ligi, a very specific question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U26	Thank you. On the tax-free minimum, we are still debating with you, but my question was not about that. My question was about the taxpayer's money-sharing model, which you prefer, i.e. the distribution of income tax through a percentage. We have all shared taxpayers' money in honor! But it is you who have chosen to share income tax through the percentage. My question is how this will affect regional balance.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U27	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. I guess your questions are often difficult to understand. If you are talking about the percentage of income tax, this government has made progress here too. I don't know if you mean regional policy through local authorities, but if that's what you mean, it really is. As you know very well as a former long-term finance minister, the percentage of municipal income tax has been cut from 11.93 to 11.4. And even though our economic and fiscal policy situation has improved, they have not changed this percentage of personal income tax, except for the tax on the land under residence, i.e. changes in land tax. It has been important for us to give the municipalities back the share of income tax that was cut in 2009 both through the percentage of personal income tax and through the Equalisation Fund. This year, the budget adopted by the Riigikogu provides for an additional EUR 20 million. You are indeed right in the fact that the percentage of personal income tax increases, which naturally contributes to regional policy. This will help to ensure that 79 municipalities are much better able to provide services: in a more operational and high-quality way. This will certainly give local authorities additional capacity in terms of the investment component as well. I have already heard positive messages from a large number of municipalities where the increase in the percentage of personal income tax has also helped to raise the wages of people working in areas such as education, education of interest, where wages have been low.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U28	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U29	Thank you, Mr President. Very honorable Prime Minister! You didn't answer Jürgen Ligi's question directly. The point of the question was, in fact, that if tax revenue is constantly increasing in Tallinn and there are problems in other regions with tax revenue in the wider sense, increasing the share of personal income tax means less income for small municipalities. The question is whether this measure really contributes to regional policy, especially in southern Estonia and border regions, or whether it is simply linked to the fact that you are a former mayor of Tallinn and the city union is currently run by the mayor of Tallinn.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U30	Thank you. Since the question was quite confusing, I answered about personal income tax, which went through the question, and I will stick to what I said. Indeed, this increase has given the municipalities a lot of efficiency and capacity. And the important thing is that this increase in the percentage of personal income tax has not given them any additional tasks. It is also important that this is not a one-off increase. The country's budgetary strategy foresees 20 million by 2018, 25 million by 2019 and 30 million by 2020. I think that the part that you touched relates to the fine-tuning fund, which was also cut in 2009. You may have suggested that the Equalisation Fund really helps more municipalities that are not located in Harjumaa or in the golden circle of Harjumaa. This year, in fact, the increase in the Equalisation Fund has been foreseen, which will continue in the following year and in the following year. So if the question was how to balance both the increase in the percentage of personal income tax and the increase in the equalisation fund, the answer is that we have tried to find this balance on both sides, both from the personal income tax and from the equalisation fund.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U31	Honourable Riigikogu! Since one additional question can also be asked by the main questioner, it is possible to ask essentially three questions on a single subject, two of which can be asked by the main questioner.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U32	The next question is from Jaak Madison and will be answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U33	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! When we dealt with the state budget this year, you repeatedly confirmed, answering questions from members of the Riigikogu, that no person loses more than 36 euros per month in connection with the new income tax system. You confirmed that repeatedly. However, the reality is that there are working pensioners who lose up to 83 euros per month. So there are only two ways to ask my question: did you not know at the time when you answered the questions that the new system would come like this, i.e. it was unprofessionalism and the inconsiderateness of the system, or did you lie? Which one's the right one?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U34	Thank you. But in life, it's not like you're gonna give me two options, and there's no other option. Point one: I knew, of course, and in this context, the Estonian people of working age were spoken about. And if their income is higher than EUR 2100 per month on a gross basis, they really must contribute more than EUR 36 to social cohesion and solidarity. When we talk about the income of people who are in retirement and are working, it is true what you said: because of the increase in the tax-free minimum to EUR 500, the maximum rate is EUR 83,2 for them. I continue to believe that this tax policy change, which the current coalition has undertaken, is extremely necessary for Estonia from a number of points of view. First of all, because people's incomes are increasing in reality. At the beginning of this year, I spoke to quite a few older people and received fresh data from the Social Insurance Board today. If we initially thought that it was in this most vulnerable sector (i.e. elderly and pensioners) that would win about 41% of pensioners, today it can be said that, based on preliminary data, 58% of pensioners have had an increase in their income compared to last year. I would say that there are three main aspects. Of course, there is one increase in the tax-free minimum. Secondly, parents who are retired will now be paid a child allowance of 5,7 euros. And the third aspect is that a very large number of pensioners had not made a statement on the EUR 180, or the tax-free minimum. We want to cut red tape and do not have to make that statement anymore. This has automatically given quite a number of pensioners a victory in the circa of 36 euros.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U35	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U36	If you say you knew, it turns out you were waving, because you knowingly withheld information that was very important for the adoption of the budget. And that doesn't honor any prime minister, much less you. But let's move on to this question. Is that the solidarity that we are giving to the poorest? You lose 36 euros every month, just like I do. But those people who have worked their whole life earn their pensions already paid income tax on them and now, despite their high age, still contribute to our labour market, where there is a shortage of labour, we take up to 83 euros a month. Is this the solidarity that the left-wing and socialists in your government, along with the IRL, say that these working pensioners lose 2.3 times more of their income each month than you or I do?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U37	Thank you for your question. I would like to stress once again that in this context, there was talk about working-age people. I will answer your second question: the government will certainly take the following steps to increase the income of the elderly and pensioners. What steps are these, and what steps have already been taken? As I said, according to recent data today, 58% of pensioners have had an increase in total income. This is due to an increase in the income tax-free minimum or to benefits for pensioners who have a child or children. This allowance is EUR 5 and EUR 76 per cent per child. In addition, we have created support for a single-living pensioner, which was actually already provided by the previous government, which is EUR 115 per year. And, of course, I very much hope that these projections relating to the indexation of 1 April and pensions will be realised, and pensions will rise by 6.3%. Let us consider the focus of your question. What else has the present coalition done to increase the income of older people who are retired but are working? It is true that a great many of them work in the fields of education and culture, for example. This is one of the priorities of the current government: to contribute more to teachers' salaries, including minimum rates, and to the salaries of cultural workers. However, this ratio between the benefits and the disadvantages of income should be definitively established at the end of January or at the beginning of February, when people's salaries are also received as part of the income.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U38	Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U39	Thank you, Prime Minister. Keep it that way, keep it up until the election! But don't really believe in Jaak Madison, too, these pluses and minuses are a little worse for pensioners. They actually win at most less and lose at most more than you've put in your chat points. It is very nice that you are supporting all the other measures that have been followed by all governments and that you are highlighting the product as compensation, but let's try to look at it mathematically. Tell me how much the pensioner's maximum victory and maximum loss as a result of this measure is calculated by you. So what is the maximum victory and maximum loss of the pensioner you know? We compare 2018 with 2018 in terms of previous regulations and policies.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U40	Thank you. When we are talking about the part of the tax-free minimum, it can be said that the maximum win is 16.8 euros per month for pensioners. When we talk about what was mentioned above in this Question Time, I really think that there were quite a few pensioners in Estonia who had not written an application for income tax exemption of 180 euros for any reason. The truth is that we have a strong desire to cut red tape with the new system. An elderly person will no longer have to write this statement; the state will automatically account for it. And it has really increased the income of quite a large number of pensioners as of 5 January when pensions were received. If not only are we talking about the tax-free minimum, then the third aspect is what I have already pointed out - the child benefit, which is EUR 5.7 per child. Speaking of the maximum loss, for older people who work, we can now only base on a comparison of pensions, in which case it will be EUR 83.2. But we must also bring people's incomes to this comparison, which will become apparent in the first month of this year, at the end of January or at the beginning of February. According to today's data, for example, 68000 elderly people, i.e. more than 18%, have not submitted a tax-free income application to the SKA.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U41	I will conclude the debate on this issue in the Question Time Room today.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U42	Next question. Please, Krista Aru! Responds to the Minister of Education and Science Mailis Reps.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U43	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister! The Director of Jõhvi State Gymnasium resigned on 23 May of last year by mutual agreement. At the time, a representative of the Ministry of Education and Research confirmed that Jõhvi State Gymnasium will receive a new director in August at the latest. We have reached 2018, but the director is still not in office. This period, which has been longer than six months, has given rise to stories, particularly in the local area, that the minister is looking for a person with political views suitable for the head of the state gymnasium. Please tell me what is the reason that this Director's competition was announced so late, only on 3 January!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U44	Thank you, good questioner! It is true that we are looking for directors all over Estonia. These competitions have been a series of events this year, and we are always looking for the best candidates. All such debates are, at least for me, despite the fact that I have been in politics for quite a long time, still surprising political speculation. I hope they've all been disproved for today, but I'm going to go over it. We have had almost a dozen directors' competitions in almost two academic years alone. I bring out the most outstanding competitions for the director of Rapla and Viimsi State Gymnasium. We have had problems with the College of Education in Maarja County, where there was also a competition. We recently had a competition for the director of the Haapsalu Viigi School, a competition for the head of Urvaste School is currently taking place and a new director was elected yesterday for the Läänemaa Common Gymnasium. Of all those highly dignified directors who are already in office or who were elected yesterday in the Competition Committee in Läänemaa, none are politically active. Moreover, none of them are in any political party. The members of the competition committee are, as I have already said in the media, although we do not ask this question whether they belong to a party. People often bring it out themselves in the round of the competition committee, because in our educational environment, it is considered to be a good tone rather than to show their political differences. What's been behind this? First of all, during the summer the Ministry of Education of the school network of specialists came to the proposal. In their view, the experience so far shows that the strongest candidates are not available for summer competitions, i.e. summer is not the best period for organising competitions. In autumn, we had a very serious debate in the Ministry of Education and Research, where a new proposal was put forward: since local elections are taking place and the region is very sensitive, we are going to make a competition after local elections. This has been behind the caretaker procedure, which Mrs Krõõt Olo commented on. The competition was decided after the local elections so that it would not be a political process.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U45	Krista Aru, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U46	Thank you. Thank you, Madam Secretary. The local elections were held in October, it is now January 2018 and the Ministry announced the competition on 3 January. So I ask you this: why is the deadline for submitting documents for this competition only two weeks? This competition will be closed on 17 January or 18 January in any case, it will last for two weeks. Do you really think this is enough time to find the most suitable candidate for a school to which the Director has been expected for a very long time?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U47	Thank you, good questioner! I am indebted to the answer at the moment, for example, how long the application periods were in Viimsi or Rapla. We have a tradition of being a member of the competition committee that there are officials of the Ministry of Education and representatives of the local government or region (in this case, representatives of Jõhvi rural municipality). There has always been a representative of the school network, who has been the representative of Viljandi State Gymnasium for all recent competitions. Representatives of the local school care centre have also always participated. The call committee has discussed these deadlines and made proposals, and the School Network Office has reviewed them. Why was there a limp between October and January? We were talking about it the day before yesterday at the Ministry of Education. The reason was different arguments: at the same time, another competition was held and discussions with other school principal candidates ended. It was explained that these reasons were purely technical. Läänemaa was brought forward for various reasons and Urvaste and Läänemaa competitions were announced at the same time. They wanted to leave a small gap, because the same people often compete in several schools. A few rounds of conversations and decisions were to be made first. It is for these technical reasons that these things have been postponed in a series of ways. In the case of Jõhvi, there are no preferred candidates for me. No one from the Riigikogu or any political party in Jõhvi has ever visited me to introduce the candidates. However, the Ministry of Education and Research has actively sought a person inside and outside the school and has looked into the eyes of school leaders who know the area well. I know there have been proposals for one headmaster or another. Perhaps there has been such a signal from the community that the Director's competition is somehow politically influenced. Personally, I have no preference for Jõhvi.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U48	Ladies and gentlemen, your well-known and certain eloquence should allow the answer to be contained in two minutes. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U49	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! How has all this, the stretch of this process, affected students' entry into this Jõhvi school? There are, as we know, both Estonian and Russian children, for which this school has, in a sense, been famous. I will tell you directly that my acquaintance on the ground has said that Estonian children have moved away from that school to Kohtla-Järve Järve Upper Secondary School. Is there such a tendency, as you know? What do you know about the student movement and the autumn reception?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U50	Thank you, good questioner! I'm sorry I'm out of time! First of all, we have a sense of security at the moment, and I hope that everyone who comes into contact with education will also have a very capable head of study in Jõhvi. Mrs. Tatiana Ait has done very well so far. He also managed when there were certain conversations between the previous director and the Ministry of Education, which resulted in the person leaving with the agreement of the parties. This head of education has worked very well in the school's normal rhythm. This has also been pointed out by specialists in the School Network Department as the reason why the Ministry of Education and Research left Jõhvi's competition behind Läänemaa, for example. We had the confidence that the leading lady of Jõhvi School was very good. Now that there has been a student movement between Jõhvi and Kohtla-Järve, the Estonian Public Broadcasting also drew attention to the Minister's issues. I asked the Ministry for more information about this. I was told that these have been individual students who have gone from Kohtla-Järve to Jõhvi and then returned to Kohtla-Järve to their school. There is different information about whether it has been Jõhvi's problem or whether it has seemed more enjoyable to go back to your community, to your familiar school, to your teachers. According to the information provided by the Ministry, Jõhvi and Kohtla-Järve have specific characteristics, which is why Kohtla-Järve's children preferred to return to Kohtla-Järve. This has also been one of the reasons why we have moved forward forcefully with Kohtla-Järve Upper Secondary School. These schools should not compete with each other, but a good community should develop there. This is also the reason why competitions in Jõhvi and Kohtla-Järve come immediately after each other, so that the directors of these schools can start working at the same time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U51	I will conclude the debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U52	The next question is from Hanno Pevkur and will be answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U53	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! Very much has been said about the influence of the Russian Federation in recent times. In yesterday's Eesti Päevaleht, among other things, your former party partner, who is still a member of the Management Board of the Centre Party and of the Riigikogu Group, Olga Ivanova, said that PBK and Stolitsa are the instruments that won the last elections. Komsomolskaya Pravda's former employee Oleg Samorodni describes in his book 'Two-faced Impressum. Impressum, Russian-language TV channel PBK and Komsomolskaya Pravda as tools for Kremlin propaganda. He writes, among other things, that Russian media dealers are eager to recruit mercenaries from Estonian Russian journalists for their information war. It would be wrong to claim that the active recruitment work has no results, writes Samorodni. Therefore, in fact, I have a very simple question: do you also consider PBK Kremlin to be a tool for propaganda and therefore a security threat to the Estonian state?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U54	Thank you for this industriously written question. I see that the problem in Estonian society has risen again on one axis, with Estonian-Russian relations at one end, where one big wedge or crack can be struck again. Of course, I very much support that we reach as many people as possible in Estonia, regardless of what their home language is through the media space, such as ETV+, Radio 4, etc. It is right and necessary to contribute, build and develop them there in any case. Why did I start with the crack or the wedge? I pulled out the last DOD scan. I would say that our efforts to create a common information space have borne fruit. For example, a recent survey on public opinion and national defence commissioned by the Ministry of Defence shows that you, during the reign of the Reform Party, are gradually closing the gap between the trust of Estonians and the trust of Estonian people of other nationalities in the Estonian authorities. Today, it is safe to say that the trust of Estonians and other Estonians, for example, against the rescue service and the police, no longer differs by more than 10%. I think it is extremely important and necessary to bring information from the source to the people living in Estonia, and this is as specific and as clearly as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U55	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U56	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Prime Minister! Reading your strategic news gives the impression that you are trying to achieve what one head of the Estonian state should not achieve on every front, including in PBK. But I also read the news today where the senior of the Lasnamäe District Government says that a state newspaper should be created, which coincides with the news that the state is planning to expand strategic communication. On this point, I am asking quite seriously whether we are going to deal with the propaganda of the Centre Party in the area of strategic communication in the country or to reduce the channels of influence that are directed against us.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U57	Thank you. Point one: no national newspaper is created. Point two: I feel genuinely sad about the Reform Party more and more. Now you're taking the next weapon, strategic communication, and you're going to attack the government with it. You know very well that the need for strategic communication in the country at difficult times, the need for strategic communication also for our partners in the European Union and NATO, the need for strategic communication outside Estonia, but also inside, has been talked about for years. With a lot of these issues, I ask myself a question that I will also ask here today in this honourable Riigikogu Chamber: why have these things not been done in the country? It's not Jüri Ratas or any other person's idea. This has been a real need for the country, particularly from the point of view of our security and security policy. If you have the opinion that a strategic communication department will be set up at the State Chancellery, which will issue a newspaper and make radio and television, where only Jüri Ratas will be present, that is not the case. These things aren't gonna be published or done. Unfortunately, the fact that the Estonian state has not been ready for strategic communication for 17 years is true. This strength, this professionalism and this performance must in any case be increased. And it has rather been one of the proposals and wishes of Estonian specialists, specialists in the security field, that we move forward with strategic communication. It is foreseen that it could come to the State Chancellery, and I am pleased that it will be created.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U58	Hanno Pevkur, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U59	Thank you. The question can also be answered yes or no. And certainly in order to be precise in the details and quotations, it is also correct to read out the question. I'd be happy to continue with that, too. I refer to an article by Raul Rebane, where he writes about the research of scientists at the Ukrainian Crisis Communication Centre. The news from PBK, RTR and NTV, most important television channels in Russia, were analysed. According to Rebane, this study provides solid and strong arguments as to why long-suffering foolishness should be ended, so that the city of Tallinn buys air time from PBK. According to the fox, this is political, ethical, economic and also communicational absurdity. Worse than that, it's only a fact if it doesn't seem absurd to many. I could read more from here so you can answer in concrete terms. As your Prime Minister, who is responsible for the security of Estonia on the one hand, on the other hand, you are directly in charge of the Tallinn Council of the Centre Party, or are you directly responsible for the Tallinn decisions of the Centre Party, you propose to the Mayor of Tallinn to stop ordering programmes from PBK for taxpayers' money?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U60	Thank you and I wish you strength under the leadership of my party, Honourable Hanno Pevkur. I can handle my party on my own. You'll come by force to help, and I won't tell you. What I want to say is that I support quite a number of decisions made during the term of office of Minister for the Interior, Hanno Pevkur. And I'm not here today to tell you that things were done wrong. I am here because I consider the decision of 2015, for example, when the Rescue Board conducted a water safety campaign at PBK to inform people living in Estonia. I think it was also right when the Rescue Board conducted an information campaign in 2016, there were information advertisements. This has been done by other Estonian authorities, some of which were under you. Sounds to me like you're putting yourself on your back. I really am not attacking you here, either, but I think that the 1.3 million people who live here must also learn through information campaigns about the things that the Rescue Board is doing, which is being done by the Police and Border Guard Board, which is being done by the Consumer Protection Board. This opportunity has been used. As horrible as it may seem to you, it was used for some occupations, even when the Reform Party was a prime minister in the government and the Minister in charge used it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U61	I will conclude the debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U62	Mart Helme will ask the question to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U63	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! I can assure you that this practice, which we have been talking about, will no longer be continued when the Conservative People's Party is in government. Estonia is a nation state and Estonian is the official language. But the question is about your anthem. I'm interested in this particular case that took place on New Year's Eve in Liberty Square. Does the "Estonian Republic 100" panel, supervised by the government, and assembled by it, who participated in planning this evening, intend to continue experimenting with the symbols of the Estonian state and how does the government view it? Has the government discussed this case, taken a stand, and instructed that such experiments should no longer come? Perhaps at some point they will find that we should draw another flag from the Long Hermann Tower instead of blue black and white.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U64	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu and Chairman of the EKRE Mart Helme! We are totally on the same side with you: just as we do not see any other language in Estonia as an official language other than the Estonian language, as I have heard, neither do you. So we're totally in agreement here, the joint share is 100%. I am very pleased that you have also said that you will never come to the coalition table to seek the establishment of another national language. That's not what we're doing either, it's definitely the same with you. You asked whether the government was discussing the national broadcasting programme and making precepts about what parts or elements of the programme should be or who should be interviewed, then the answer is no, that is not what we are discussing. There is a specific chain of governance: for the ERR, for the national broadcasting, it is set up by the Council and the Executive Board. You asked what the government's position was. I understand what we're talking about is that the anthem wasn't played in the first few seconds at the beginning of this year. My personal point of view is that the anthem should have played. I support it. The fact that it wasn't there was a choice this time. If you ask if any of the 'Estonian Republic 100' staff is responsible for the 'Estonian Republic 100' task force is really under the jurisdiction of the State Chancellery, then I do not think that anyone should now be chased by a witch hunt. As I said, the government of the ERR program is certainly not debating, but my personal position is that the anthem could have played.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U65	Mart Helme, an additional question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U66	Thank you. I, of course, acknowledge your determination by quoting 'The Last Relic' on the issue of Estonian. And I also acknowledge that your Russian greeting at PBK ended up playing the anthem of the Republic of Estonia. This is undoubtedly extremely commendable. But I still have a problem. It is such a stupendous response that the government does not intervene in this, in the other, or in the third. In my opinion, however, all that comes about celebrating 'Estonian Republic 100' is to completely coordinate and finance the government. So once again, in the event of 'Estonian Republic 100' celebration, does the government keep an eye on the stupid, say, liberal, liberal creative experiments with the symbols of the Estonian state?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U67	Thank you. I have told several members of the Riigikogu here that if there is a problem, it still needs to be resolved. Trouble is solved! You said you had a problem. Is the government keeping an eye on you? I would say that the government even controls all of this: there is a 'Estonian Republic 100' government panel, a government committee run by the Prime Minister. Will the government also run the national broadcasting programme and what time the interviews are with and what music or culture are being played? He's not gonna do that. But the government is really monitoring very actively, and it is also running the 'Estonian Republic 100' task force. I am also pleased to thank the Riigikogu here, which has allowed to increase the financing of certain activities of 'Estonian Republic 100' for this year, which is the anniversary year of the Republic of Estonia. And this principle, which has been on the 'Estonian Republic 100' team, is very close to my heart: that these events reach as many Estonian villages as possible and last until 2 February 2020, when exactly 100 years have passed since the signing of the Tartu Peace Treaty. I also welcome the fact that 'Estonian Republic 100' has taken the course for young people, for the future, for sustainability. I think that this is certainly an important emphasis from the point of view of our country, including from the point of view of the regrettable decline in our population. It is also important that we see as many oak alley plantings as possible in the framework of the 'Estonian Republic 100' events, the organisation of the public space of local governments, the issuing of books, the gift of pills to children. There have also been many international events for this Estonian community who, for one reason or another, live far away from Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U68	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for answering questions and asking questions to colleagues. Unfortunately, today's Question Time is over because one hour has been completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U69	Honourable Riigikogu! We will start the first Wednesday session of the VII plenary session. Now it's time to hand over the drafts and enquiries. Martin Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U70	Dear Deputy Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, Politics is a dynamic thing, there are no friends or enemies in politics, there are interests and allies in the service of their interests. We have previously expressed distrust, along with the Centre Party and the Free Party, for both the Reform Party and the IRL Ministers. Today, together with the Reform Party and the Free Party, we are expressing mistrust for the Minister of the Centre Party, Kadri Samson. Kadri Simson has stood out as a minister mostly when there's been some kind of trouble. Let me briefly read the sins that we make in today's motion of distrust. Firstly, of course, the introduction of agricultural subsidies in such a way that it benefits the people involved in the party. Secondly, the public transport reform in such a way that the functioning of the system is demolished and from the new system, even though we do not have the details of the party-related transport company that seems to benefit again, as well as completely incomprehensible investment decisions, for example, in train traffic, Rail Baltic or also in air traffic. All these stories smell of playing games and corruption to their own people, and they certainly do not talk about statesmanlike behaviour or about serving the common good of all of us. We can see that the Centre Party is copying the same scheme in the country and government as we have seen before in Tallinn, Narva or Kohtla-Järve. We don't think it can go on. We strongly advise Prime Minister Jüri Ratas to consider whether Kadri Simson is fit for office.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U71	On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted a motion of censure against the Minister. The employees of the Office will contact the Government of the Republic and when a decision is made there, we will return to the motion of censure. Now, let's do the presence check. 93 members of the MPs will attend the meeting.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U72	Today's first item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. I'm opening negotiations. Heljo Pikhof on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U73	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good fellows! Inclusive education provides that each child must have the opportunity to study at a school close to home together with other pupils of his or her own age. 74% of students with special educational needs actually study in regular schools. Less than 40% of schools have a school psychologist; there is a great shortage of other support specialists. We know that on average a third of the student population need to be supported in a way or in a different way during school time. 75% of teachers, however, claim to need further training on this issue. However, a few years after the acceptance of the concept of inclusive education, the types of HEV-student classes and special schools were brought together...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U74	Dear Heljo Pikhof! We're in the middle of a negotiation. One person negotiates at a time, so it is the custom of Estonia. Please, Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U75	... while at the same time losing the possibility of paying public money to support specialists, logos, specialized teachers, psychologists, social pedagogues and assistant teachers. Years of effort to get into the fruitage of many schools was given a chapelmat with a single pinch, baptizing educators as teachers. Yes, if you chew strictly on the letter of the law, it can be said that the state had not yet financed the work of support specialists, yet in reality it did so through the salaries of teachers, or so-called educational support. The PGS also disappeared from the assistant teacher's institution. After all, the fact is that many students can only be helped effectively if they are constantly monitored, talked to, and explained to them. Many need regular teamwork for a long time and many need a whole school time. This is the question of who would help a teacher to deal with HEV children and understand their problems if there is no psychologist or tutor in the house. Most mainstream school teachers are not adequately equipped to deal with children with special educational needs, either from their knowledge or from their skills; they lack systematic training. Our teachers are increasingly exposed to hyperactive children and children with disturbance of attention, behavioural problems, as well as autistic disorders. Some of them could be helped by an assistant teacher who sits next to each other in class or helps to keep up in private. In this way, perhaps a chain reaction could be prevented, which in the future promises only misery and misery: disrupted education, antisocial behaviour, criminality, failure. You can safely say that we are too late with this bill. During the seven years in which we have implemented inclusive education, there has been no exponential progress; the teacher has been left alone. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! In the Commission, we unanimously found that the institution of the assistant teacher must put back the PGS, the work of the support specialists must be valued, and information about the welfare of a child with special needs must, of course, be put up in the EHIS with the permission of the parent, still so that the child with special needs can be better supported and helped during the course of education. According to the bill, the school must provide at least the services of a special pedagogy, logopaedic, psychologist and social pedagogue. In addition to education support, both municipal schools and private general school managers will be provided with funding for the school's operating costs in the case of students in need of enhanced support and excrement. In order to recognise employees in the field of education, the draft provides for national educational awards and the Minister responsible for the field appoints national educational scholarships. Support specialists will receive initial support. Under the current law, the state has an obligation to establish and maintain schools that are more difficult... Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U76	Please! Three minutes extra.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U77	... students with special educational needs. From this point of view, however, a number of state and local government disputes have arisen over the distribution of responsibility and the content of the obligations. The Court has found that, in the case of students with more difficult special educational needs, it is the responsibility of the State to cover the costs, even if the student is studying at a municipal school. The state will continue to hold schools for children with special needs, but in agreement with the local government, schooling can be handed over. The operating grant accompanying a child with special needs may only be used by the municipality or city to provide enhanced and specific support to students. At the same time, both the Commission and the Ministry must certainly seek solutions to the problems that are on the agenda in inclusive education, including proposals by the Teachers' Association to reduce the hourly burden on teachers working with HEV students, to ensure that teachers receive systematic training on special educational needs, etc. Ultimately, I can say that a great deal of work has been done in the Commission and the Social Democrats support the adoption of this draft as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U78	Please, on behalf of the Yoko Alender Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U79	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, We are expressing distrust today for one of the ministers of the Central Party because we believe he has not acted competently or in the best interests of the country, has ignored the advice of the knowledgeers, and is acting according to the central party's deed 'Let's do differently! '. It seems to have gotten meaning that we are pouring money on it, which is because the consequences are essentially dangerous for Estonia, after all, the chosen ones will get the funds now, after us, or... Unfortunately, the PGS changes are an example of Kadri Simson not being alone. The Minister of Education and Science, Mailis Reps, also operates here in a similar way. There is no free public transport or millions that, without substantial changes, will solve today's and tomorrow's challenges in inclusive education. Free bus and coach transport is likely to lead to a drop in quality throughout public transport and creates serious problems in rail transport, discrimination against people on the basis of mobility and the preference of polluting bus and coach transport for more sustainable rail transport, in short, creates inequalities. According to the same pattern, as the substantive problems of inclusive education are not addressed, the additional money provided under this draft will lead to inequalities instead of removing bottlenecks and solving problems, as additional millions are also planned to be allocated to local authorities through a tax percentage. Which municipality is the largest recipient here? How much of the income tax is collected in the capital? It is natural that large ones are already stronger, although the example of the capital is that they do not always fulfil their obligations. In a smaller place, special needs are, and will continue to be, more difficult to cope with. If there is a desire not to share money, but to improve the quality of the substance, systemic problems should first be addressed, the availability of support staff and the preparation, cooperation, management and advice of teachers should be ensured, and financial support should be provided on an ad hoc basis. While the previous governments were working to bring the teaching profession back to glory by, for example, creating a 'Youth in School' programme and keeping a firm line on teachers' salaries, the current government seems to have forgotten the situation of our faculty in terms of both age and working conditions. Is it known to the government how many teachers are among those working pensioners who lose part of their income as a result of the new tax loss? Kalvi Tough maybe he wanted to apologize to them, I don't know. As far as I am concerned, there are about 1 500 teachers, but as my colleague Enn Eesmaa has mentioned, it is now time for them to show solidarity and, at the same time, to train themselves to educate children with special needs, because inclusive education has been a principle in Estonia for years, as several coalition politicians have emphasised in this very remote area in defending the draft earlier. It is good to come to specific questions which have not been answered in the course of the procedure. Without an answer to them, we do not believe that the existing system should be demolished and the responsibility of the state reduced. How many teachers in Estonian schools have been trained to support the development of children with special educational needs? What is the real need for finance for general support, enhanced support and excrement for students in need? What is the strategic plan for inclusive education for the future? What is the plan for implementing inclusive education in support of schools and students? What about educational materials and training? Where is the collection of good practices in the country? When will a system of co-vision and supervision be implemented as a teacher support mechanism? What exactly are we going to do for this? If this is not the case, is it possible, and from where, to request funding for the development and implementation of a system supporting teachers? Unfortunately, it is no longer possible to interrupt reading this bill. The Reform Party cannot support this draft law without carrying out substantive work and due to the funding model to increase inequality. Perhaps the Centre Party should introduce a new motto, such as 'Try again!' '. Whether they are allowed to do so is up to the voter. The damage is for those who suffer from the poor decisions made so far, especially when, as is the case today, it is a target group that is so difficult to defend itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U80	On behalf of the Black Centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U81	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The draft we are currently discussing was the draft to which the Committee on Culture devoted the most time and attention last season. The point is that we would all like to be the creator of final values, the builder of great things or, at least, the recipient of large and complete laws. Unfortunately, this is well known by all ladies and gentlemen, at times we are like track setters on rail, where we simply have to correct what is a daily problem, to operate where there is already a fire. When the current government took office, there was a fire in the field of education already in the house. Speaking of specialists dealing with children with special needs, a surprise-surprise was found! To stimulate them in one way or another or to do something else, whether they should be moved from one institution to another, distributed to schools or put together somewhere. It's been a problem for a long time. But then suddenly it turned out that when we counted them all, it would probably come together half of the necessary contingent at all, because the previous governments had not really dealt with this subject, there were things that had been said, deeds, see, there had not been any. This dissatisfaction background, which came from the field, from schools, was enormous. This, by the way, was also reflected in the debate on this draft. The expectations of the people that all the problems would now be solved were indeed very high and the expectations could not be met immediately. It was extremely interesting to observe what was happening on the ground. It wasn't just in the hall that we discussed. I remember that we, together with some representatives of the Committee on Culture, held a conference in Tartu where representatives of interest groups were present and where the matter was discussed. They thought it was going to be a new way now. We were told about all the educational problems, about school teachers and that no one wants to go to school and only 0.6% in Estonia are those who want to become teachers least, and not even because the pay is poor, but because the job is very down. Another very big problem was that we had to walk around Estonia and explain very simple things. For example, signatures were collected in one Estonian city because everyone knew that from 1 January 2018 all children with disabilities would be placed in regular schools. Indeed, the parents were concerned about what would happen now, is it my gifted child who needs separate communication, who has special needs and who is not helped by anyone? Does a schoolteacher have to deal with only children with special needs instead of dealing with the class's good students? This concern was immense and the lack of trust in the Estonian state was also felt at times. Another source of distrust was distrust of the local government. There were rumors that the local government was going to run schools now, but I read in the paper that they were going to sink everything. There are sometimes great eyes, especially when the media amplify it, but I dare to tell you that the purpose of this bill was to solve one part of the problems, to significantly improve ♪ not to solve it to the very end, it is not just about the strength to do it, as much as it can to improve the teaching of children with special needs. That is really what this bill is about. I am pleased to say that, in the Committee on Culture, this is perhaps the spirit of this committee that has been established a long time ago, and that there was a very broad consensus, understanding and understanding in most of the points and details. Understanding, too, that it is not possible to do everything at once. By the way...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U82	Please! Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U83	...there were still several positive moments in the process of this draft. One of them was the perception that the problem of children with special needs is not really just a question of education; it is also a social issue. Indeed, the fact that we have discussed the problems of children with special needs together with the Committee on Social Affairs certainly contributed to quality and effectiveness. Sometimes it has been said that there is competition here, you have to choose whether to deal with the quality of education or with children with special needs. The common sense and approach of the two committees are needed here. Sometimes it is also said that we do not deal at all with children with special needs. I dare say that there are long traditions in Estonia that are worth continuing. Let us remind you that already in the 19th century there was progress in this area in Estonia. But I'm not going to talk about history right now, because it'll get us out of the way. What's the bottom line? The main thing is that some stakeholders reported that they did not have time to set the tide and that they had not been able to participate in all the issues. What was particularly paradoxical was that one of the interest groups' representatives - true, he did this four years ago and in the previous Riigikogu - has given us tasks to do something like this, but now he was very surprised to see why this has been done without talking to him. You see, the Lord's mills sometimes grind slowly. There's another result. During the debate on this draft, a great deal of ideas, opinions and assessments were received. The Committee on Culture gathered a whole package of ideas on the basis of which we understood that if one small detail is in order, it would not solve all the problems. Education is certainly one of the areas where work, work and work must be done. Trouble never ends. The discussion of one problem brings new ones. The Commission generally believes that we will move forward in dealing with them. It's not a finish, it's a midterm, small and necessary, yes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U84	Krista Aru on behalf of the Group of the Estonian Free Party. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U85	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good people's representatives! The Estonian Free Party Group will vote against this bill for several reasons. This bill deals with a small part of our education. Education does not need such a small repair, a small improvement of one branch or another, but education is, as the Chairman of the Committee on Culture said, a large system that waits for the organisation of one branch and then for the interpretation or understanding of other branches. We have been waiting for the Ministry of Education and Research and asking for further details on how many teachers we have trained to work with children in particular need of attention. We haven't gotten those answers. How many schools are there where there are conditions, opportunities and teaching resources to support children with disabilities, their learning and teaching? We haven't gotten those answers. Excuse me, how can we accept another bill that has not been pre-finished? We understand very well that one bill does not improve the whole system, but let us not make more of these draft laws, for which we already see that we do not know where it fits and who it helps. Most importantly, you see, a petition has been launched under the People's Initiative. Teachers, parents, support specialists' associations, all oppose this rush. The reason for the rush is money. Municipalities who get more money must also take responsibility. Every child's education, every child's health, every child's good education and coping are more important than this additional money. And now the teachers. We all know very well that the workload of teachers has become truly awe - inspiring. There are few people who can, can and do this work with their hearts today. Teachers also object. Yes, the Alliance of Educational Workers has given its coordination and approval, but a large number of those on whom we rely, from whom we expect them to give children the best education, say do not accept this law in haste. Inclusive education still needs meaning, understanding and understanding. This is why the Group of the Estonian Free Party cannot support this bill, unfortunately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U86	Since there are no more callers, I will conclude the negotiations. The commission has proposed to put the draft to the final vote on 519. Two minutes from now, we're gonna do it. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the amendment of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws Act 519. Please take a stand and vote. 46 delegates voted in favour, 44 against and no abstentions. Bill 519 has been passed as a law. Honourable Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic wishes to discuss the written request of 44 members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure Kadri Samson at today's session. Therefore, on the basis of § 56 (1) (2) and (2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu Act, I will add this request to the agenda of today's sitting. This will take place as a third item of the agenda, i.e. after the conclusion of the 520 debate on the amendment of the Private School Act and the related amendment of other laws.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U87	Third reading of the draft law amending the Private School Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws 520. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote. I will open the negotiations of the political groups. Mr Thomas Jürgenstein on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U88	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, It seems to me that when we look at the proposals for a draft law amending the Private School Act before us, we must admit that, on the one hand, we have come to the end of the process that has been discussed at length here in the Riigikogu, but this may also be the beginning of something new. The educational landscape is dynamic, changing, not static, and it is quite natural that we return to private school issues, perhaps in five years' time, but maybe before. Typically, it is difficult for private schools to deal with educational issues, because the responsibilities of the state and local government, private initiative and private interest, parents' wishes, different world views, which must be framed in the curriculum, and, of course, students, each of whom deserves their chance. I will bring a figurative comparison of the discussions on the subject of private schools. In the old Persian story, the dirt in Nasreddin's room goes out looking for a coin that fell down because it's lighter. He may find interesting things outside, but not a lost coin. The problems of private schools are also at risk of being viewed separately from the general education system, but at least I find it misleading. Private schools are part of the Estonian educational landscape and solve problems in private schools, we also solve problems in Estonian education. Yes, I admit that there must be a lot of positive faith to support this bill, such as faith in cooperation between local authorities and private schools. I have said several times from this remote control that it works in Tartu. The city of Tartu has saved at least one schoolhouse building money, which is a large amount of money. I see no reason why such cooperation could not take place elsewhere. The moderate position of power is rather the local authorities, as this draft gives local authorities an important right of say in financing the operating costs of private schools. Secondly, this bill requires faith in cooperation between private schools and municipal and state schools. There are things in the Estonian educational landscape that municipal and public schools have learned from private schools. However, private schools have also learned from municipal and public schools. Educational diversity is a prerequisite for mutual learning and is supported by the draft we are discussing today. For example, municipal and public schools have probably learned from private schools, the importance of the school community and parents, as well as the superiority of subjects and grades. As a teacher, I have experienced how 15 years of Hugo Treffner Gymnasium, municipal school, and Pärnu Sütevaka Humanitaargymnasium have enriched each other. Of course, such cooperation is nothing new. Even in a country of very elite private schools in England, a partnership programme was established 20 years ago, in 1997 to exchange good experiences between private schools and public schools, which works successfully. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U89	Please! Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U90	I also admit that this bill implies that private schools do not become a source of educational stratification. Perhaps, as we approach this problem, there are many private schools like Eton, Great Britain, some of these English schools are 400 years old, with really huge traditions, from which there will be successive prime ministers and presidents... Well, not the presidents. But let's look at the results of the state exams or the statistics of entering good secondary schools in Estonia. Well, it's not dominated by private school students! It seems to me that if we really want to talk about educational stratification, we should speak with a louder voice about school tests and the so-called voluntary contributions of parents of children attending municipal schools. Finally, this bill requires faith in human wisdom. Nobody starts a new school because of the temptation. This bill has created the eye of a needle, and I speak figuratively again, and this eye of a needle is wide enough for a camel loaded with good ideas to pass through, but narrow enough for a camel carrying fortune seekers to get stuck there. By camels, of course, I mean private schools set up for different purposes and on the basis of different ideas, and an open-ended training permit under the eye of a needle. Ladies and gentlemen, along the way! This draft is a compromise that seeks to balance educational diversity, equal opportunities and the flexibility of education services, and to encourage cooperation between different types of schools. Let us support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U91	Jürgen Ligi on behalf of the Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U92	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! We are already discussing the second draft with a tone that we will do something, although we will have to return to it, that we will do it and then we will think about it. Some ray of hope, in fact, that the Soviets had started to think along again was in the text of the previous speaker, but then we still came to believe that we had to believe that the interests of private schools would be protected. That's the biggest problem. This draft is much better than there has been an intermediate practice, in that it is now that the municipalities have been given a degree of discretion, but we do not really know what will turn out, we do not really know how it will be implemented. The belief that we'll ever be able to fix it is naive, because if there's anything given to a lobby, there's something to get out of it... Well, we've been trying for the third year, but we can't, but we'll give it back. This is not about cooperation between the state and private schools in order to protect the interests of private schools, but about protecting the interests of Estonian education. These are two very different things, and there are very controversial ideas in this Chamber as well. The problem with this bill is that the state and the private sector have been turned upside down here. This is all since the private sector has to bear less responsibility with its own money than the public sector has guarantees, and public money is once again going to compete with municipal schools that do not have such state guarantees. That's the continuing weakness of this whole thing. How it's gonna be practiced, we don't know for sure. But in any case, many of them have been very agreeable to me in private, but then they still talk and do it the other way, obviously for political reasons. So, however, private schools retain greater guarantees than municipal schools, and this concerns both failure to comply with the reform of the school network and the direct financing of the state. After all, the state pays money with one hand in order for the municipalities to pull together their school network, but the private sector is again the one who establishes itself and then issues bills to the state. This is not a matter of spite. It is clear that a private initiative must be assessed, and we must support what we do through education support. But it is not a question of spite, it is a question of whether the state can control its money or not, whether it can make the best decisions or not. As a result of this law, he still cannot make the best decisions, and that is a problem. What's the result? Convergence school is still at risk, with a very high risk of educational stratification. This is precisely why there are very strict restrictions on private schools in all democratic countries, although the quality and flexibility of their studies is often appreciated and not restricted. Estonia's conditions are completely greenhouse without this law; we cannot say in any way that we are bullying private schools. We favour them now. Sadly, the state has a duty to provide free education, it has done so very well, we are at the absolute top of the world in very different indicators, namely school education, and such a privileged attitude towards the private sector would not be necessary. This is also the case with Tartu. It's nice to say they didn't have to build a schoolhouse, but this schoolhouse had already been built by the state. Why did the state have to rebuild it once it had been given to private schools? This is indeed an example of good cooperation, but there have also been very serious mistakes in this cooperation. According to earlier law, private schools have still been paid over. There's no way to say that a private school built this school itself. No, it was built by the state in its time. So... I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U93	Please! Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U94	I'm really sorry that I think a sot at New Year's celebration asked if you were against private schools. For God's sake, I'm not against private schools. I am opposed to the private sector being granted privileges in relation to the public sector in the performance of its function. To perform a state function! Cooperation is very good, but cooperation is aimed at better education, not at favouring the private sector over the state. That's the whole thing. That's what the right person says. Understand, delve and listen to what I'm saying. This problem has been brought to the attention of very different institutions: the municipality, the President, the Chancellor of Justice, the National Audit Office. Everyone has pointed out the same problems. Now we're back here again, we're making it feel like we have some kind of funding that constantly prefers real estate to be more than we have to pull off real estate on the other side. One of the consequences of changing the private sector and the state is these new jokes that are written in here. Well, what? Why should we even interfere with tuition regulation? It is now being further regulated. If this is the private sector, if this is a private initiative, why are we going to tell you how much he can collect tax? Why are we going to regulate what the private sector has to write on its website? That's ridiculous. It's not the subject of the law. Why are we going to tell the private sector what to do with its own budget? That's ridiculous. When he collects tuition fees, it takes place on the basis of trust and the market itself regulates it. I'm sure they're customer-friendly and they don't steal that money. Why do we write down the law about what they can do for tuition? That's ridiculous. In this sense, the quality of this draft is very poor and these risks of education stratification remain here. I don't think we should be making laws that we ourselves say that we probably need to come back to it, because there are still problems here, all right, but all right, well! So a little more manhood, you bastards! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U95	Priit Sibul on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U96	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Estonian school education is doing well. We're successful. I hear half the world admires us because of the wonderful results of PISA. Many of you know, at least to the IRL and our activities, the enthusiastically sympathetic previous speaker Jürgen Ligi knows that resting on laurels will be a loss in the future. Quite a few of you have also noticed that it is unwise to assess any object, phenomenon or field on the basis of a single measure. The fastest locomotive in the world will be of little use if it cannot carry the necessary number of wagons. A Banal example, but that's the way it is. These wagons are the future of children as adults and the decisions of parents who care about their children's well - being. So we are changing the laws on the organisation of education. We have just adopted the amendment of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act and the related amendment of other laws; we are currently processing the draft law amending the Private School Act and the related amendment of other laws. They're both passionate. We changed the financing of education for children with special needs, while giving decision-making and responsibility to municipalities. It's a big change. My good colleague from the IRL Group, Tiina Kangro, fears that the problems will not be solved without the responsibility of the state. However, the problems are largely unsolved even now when the financing of learning for students with special needs is directed by the state. The funding of this study is now increasing in municipalities and there are decision-makers closer to the parent, in smaller municipalities they are basically familiar personally. Such a solution enables parents to be demanding, since decision-makers are within the reach of communication. On the side of the Ministry of Education and the legislator there is a do-good mentality in the field of education and not only too often. In upper secondary school, let them learn Estonian! Does it ring any bells? IRL people, at least. Often we are able to make reasonable decisions, but we cannot see a sequence of processes that could lead to their realisation in the quality required. As our legislator, we cannot make the necessary corrections, and the Ministry sometimes shows amazing leadership inability. I hope that children with special needs are not something for the Ministry of Education where the problem has been solved and the message stick has been handed over to the municipalities. The responsibility remains. We'll stay here. The functioning of the whole is still at national level. Above all, however, parents have a responsibility for their child, and here we come to the draft we are discussing. Parents have a constitutional right to make choices about the education of their children. The Private School Act creates opportunities for realising the choices of children and parents. The standardised national municipal school network does not provide sufficient opportunities for this and therefore private schools, community schools created by parents have been born. These schools are also, in many respects, the leaders of educational innovation, the testers, whose activities allow us to determine what is good practice and what does not work at all. The existence of such an experience is of great value to the Estonian educational landscape as a whole. If a standardised national system can fall apart as a whole, the educational landscape with very different schools is more targeted as a whole, avoids major mistakes and is also able to discover more opportunities to move forward. But you have to move on. Finland, the Netherlands and many other formally successful educational countries are constantly experimenting, looking for a school for the future, trying something that may seem incomprehensible to us. The world is changing, the children with special needs are coming. Parents have too little time for children, and the starting point for educational stratification is no longer the parent's wealth, but the resources of time that he can devote to the child and family. The expectations of education are also changing. School can't be static in this environment. More kids with special needs. In the Netherlands, there was a trend towards teaching children with special needs in mainstream schools as early as the early 1990s. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U97	Please! Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U98	Bet on methodology and teacher training. The transition and further training took place gradually, on the network principle. Schools that achieved the required level and competence began to train teachers in the following schools. As a result, something amazing happened: today, Dutch primary school students are studying in one class at three paces, because taking into account the development needs of children with special needs also led to an awareness of the development needs of so-called ordinary children. In this way, children who are not as fast as others are encouraged and cared for. Can we do that? That's the question. This issue cannot be resolved by law. The magic word "behave" doesn't work. This requires the demanding nature of parents, the willingness of teachers and school leaders to change their practices and the ability of the Ministry of Education to find opportunities and tools for the change to work. We need to set a goal. Private schools are an important element of the Estonian education system. IRL supports the adoption of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U99	Since there are no more requests for speech, I will close the negotiations. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to the final vote on 520. Let's get ready for this. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the amendment of the Private School Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and, in connection with this, the draft law amending other laws 520. Please take a stand and vote. 67 delegates voted in favour, 24 against and 2 abstentions. The 520 bill has been passed as a law. Ladies and gentlemen, in a moment's time, I will announce a 20-minute break for the Head of the Riigikogu, but allow me, before the break, to introduce you to the processing of the motion of censure submitted to the Minister. A 20-minute break is necessary to allow the members of the coalition groups to deepen and to become familiar with the text submitted. First of all, the Minister's speech is from the floor, which lasts up to eight minutes. The minister is then asked questions, each member of the Riigikogu can ask an oral question. The political groups will then negotiate. The President shall first give the floor to the representative of the group whose members have initiated a vote of distrust. Before the final vote, we do a check of presence, i.e. the adoption or rejection of a motion of distrust requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu. So much for now. I now announce the chairman's break, we will continue to work in 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U100	Honourable Riigikogu, we will proceed with the handling of today's agenda items. We have a censure on the Minister's agenda. 44 members of the Riigikogu from the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party and the Group of the Estonian Free Party have signed this motion of distrust. I would also like to introduce to you what our Rules of Procedure provide for this item. First of all, the Minister's speech, which lasts up to eight minutes, then every member of the Riigikogu has the right to ask one oral question, then the representatives of the political groups will be able to speak during the negotiations for up to eight minutes from the remote control or two minutes from the point of view, and then there will be a final vote. In the final vote, the minister will be distrusted if there is a majority in the composition of the Riigikogu in favour of the publication of censure. If no one has any questions about the procedure, please, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure Kadri Samson of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U101	Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I'm happy to stand before you here and give answers to your mistrust. This is not the first time I have been in the Chamber of the Riigikogu when the mistrust of the Minister is being discussed. We prepared it thoroughly and practically. The last time was when a large part of you in this Chamber voted in favour of mistrust of the previous Prime Minister, Taavi Rõivas. I think it is appropriate to recall what was then brought forward. I recall one paragraph of this motion of distrust: 'Taavi Clothing governments have for years ignored the crisis in agriculture by allowing the sector which is vital for feeding the population, for the viability of regional policy and for exports to move towards extinction. The government is looking carelessly at the collapse of an important economic sector. ' It is therefore no wonder that, after the last government had ended, we stood very firmly in the coalition negotiations to support agriculture. The Centre Party defended its long-term positions in the negotiations by seeking the restoration of transitional support for farmers, the payment of crisis aid to the maximum extent permitted, and the support of pig farmers who were severely affected by the swine plague. Decisions on agricultural payments were taken on the basis of requests from representative organisations in the sector. By the way, these same organisations have once again confirmed that the steps taken were correct and that there was nothing corrupt there. I can say with peace of mind that the construction put forward in the media, and now also in the motion of censure, for some of the companies' particularly favourable decisions, is in no way true. Moreover, the negotiations in the government coalition, which I participated in a year ago, never discussed the mechanisms for allocating possible subsidies that would have enabled anyone to obtain inside information. Despite the bursting media, I still believe that supporting pig farmers in difficult times was the right decision. Once again, no additional funds were allocated to support any particular farmer or farm, and the government does not decide who will receive the support. All the reservations raised in the motion of censure on this subject have been refuted, and this has already been the case last year. However, as regards your new claim that this applies both to changes in the conditions of the breeding aid for pigs and to the zones concerned by the swine plague, and this has not been supported by an unbiased expert opinion so far, I would draw your attention to the fact that I even knew: these zones are being established by the European Commission. Now, free of charge from county bus transport. I am not surprised by the indifference and contempt of the Reform Party for the promotion of rural areas, but that does not mean that today's government should sit back and do nothing. We want to improve the mobility of rural people and reduce their transport costs. One step, of course, was to abolish the previous government's diesel excise plan. You wanted to raise the diesel excise, it was canceled. The second step, however, is the additional resources for the county bus routes. There is no doubt about the argument that distrusters have tried to make, as if free public transport were intended to increase the revenues of bus and coach companies. Companies providing services on rural lines are selected as a result of public procurement. There are many of these companies and they have been elected during the term of office of various ministers. It is clear that some of them have won so far, many will win in the future, but the bus company will receive a fixed line-km fee. This year comes two thirds of this subsidy and one third of the ticket revenue, then everything comes from the subsidy, but the amount for the bus company remains the same. I saw on the news when Mart Helme was worried that he didn't know how new purchases would take place on a free ride. I repeat that Estonia as a whole has already been covered by 55 long-term line agreements, which mostly last eight years. These contracts shall remain in force, as shall the charges of the line-km concluded at the time. This amount has been in place since the beginning for many contracts; it will only change as a result of indexation; no new procurement will take place. But if the EKRE Group would like a more detailed overview, I am happy to come to your meeting and give a thorough overview of public transport. No decision to start free public transport will be taken following a party or family line, but the distrusters will think of themselves at the level of corruption. After all, a person who signed a motion of distrust had his own participation in a bus company as Minister of Economic Affairs, which during his term of office won line procurement with specific conditions. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U102	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U103	The media have developed a structure to choose between increasing the number of routes and free travel when switching to free public transport. It's not like that. The current plan envisages both. It is up to the local public transport centres to decide where and at what time the buses are going. So you should not be afraid that someone from the ministry will report on local needs. Also wrong are those who claim that no one is already using public transport in the county. 18 million trips were made last year. We have also found additional resources for other forms of public transport. Saaremaa gets closer ferry connections in the high season and air connections between islands will improve. The railroad, which was in deep trouble when I became my minister, has helped balance. In addition, the government found additional resources to increase the speed of driving on the railway in the direction of Narva and Tartu, and Elron's subsidy will increase by 9 million euros this year. Let us now talk about regional investment. The bulwarks are against Pärnu airport, the Haapsalu railway and the port of Saaremaa. The restoration of the Haapsalu railway has been discussed for years. You know, there is also a support group in the Riigikogu, there are 42 members of the Riigikogu and it is managed by a person who has signed a motion of distrust. Last year, the Riigikogu received an address from the islanders, which the people of Saaremaa municipality are seeking to deepen the port of Mõntu in order to restore the international shipping line. This appeal has the signatures of the islanders, one of them being Jaanus Tamkivi, former Chairman of the Reform Party Group. The government has supported various activities in different ways, and it is not unusual to foresee support for some individual objects in the state budget. For example, in 2018 the Arvo Pärt Centre is also supported as an individual object, while last year's budget included direct support to Lilleküla Stadium. The port of pleasure has received support from the state budget in the past. It is a very important port for islanders, which has the potential to stimulate tourism and freight transport in the future, as well as revitalising local life and increasing the overall attractiveness of the region. The international shipping route is also stated in the Accession Treaty of the municipalities. The deepening of the port is a prerequisite for the Municipality of Saaremaa to negotiate with the City of Ventspils to restart the route, which clearly has a wider impact on the region. A similar effect for the Westerners is the railway and the airport for the limes. It is necessary that the government has a certain regional view when making investment decisions. Finally, a word on the business direction of EVR Cargo's wagon rental. This is not a new course, it was done during the previous ministerial period. It is important to note that this is not contrary to the sanctions of the European Union. According to the managers of EVR Cargo, there are no tenants involved in sanctions. Henrik Hololei, the top transport manager of the European Union, confirmed the subject already in the summer: 'Having dealt with anti-Russian sanctions myself, I do not see from the beginning that sanctions are being contradicted. There is a great deal of cooperation with Russia's railways and many Western companies have joint ventures with them. ' Thank you for your attention. I'm ready to answer questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U104	Good Minister, so it is that you have questions for members of the Riigikogu. The round of questions will be opened by Andres Herkel. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U105	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, For the money of this Port of Mõntu, EUR 400000, the Centre Party received a new leader in Saaremaa, Mihkel Undrest. That must have been the price of linking him to the Centre Party. What makes the allocation of this money different from using Tallinn public money in 2013 for the personal advertising of Edgar Savisaar, which he had to pay more than 100000 euros back, and now from buying air time from PBK in favour of Mikhail Kõlvart? In all these provisions, I see public money being used in the interests of the party.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U106	Thank you. The deepening of the port of pleasure is a prerequisite that Saaremaa can launch an international shipping line that operated between the port of Mõntu and the port of Ventspils in 2005-2008. At the time, it had a very positive impact on the tourism sector in Saaremaa. As I mentioned earlier, the restoration of this shipping line is also included in the Accession Treaty, but the precondition is the deepening of the port. The priority given to this port in Saaremaa has also been confirmed by the people who requested the deepening of the port last year.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U107	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U108	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Minister, I thank you for paying special attention to the concerns of our group. Indeed, we were also involved in mistrusting the garment government, and the agricultural crisis was one of the important reasons for this. We supported this at the time and we have also supported the current government in its decision to increase agricultural subsidies. What we do not support, it is a very familiar scheme for the Centre Party of Tallinn to make these grants so that their benefit is greater than that of the public. This is our main complaint. On all points, our main complaint is that this 'public money' somehow always makes a large number of middle party beneficiaries larger than would otherwise have been expected. But I have a more specific question about 'free public transport'. Quite typical of the current government, if anything is given, they'll be taken away elsewhere. In this case, the price of the train ticket increased. Do you really not see any illogicality here?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U109	Thank you. At the moment, we are in a situation where trains are much harder subsidised per passenger than county bus lines. We found 9 million in the state budget this year to support Elron more. This is very strong support for rail transport. I think that's the key. In fact, the price increase on the railroad has been on a regular basis, every year possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U110	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U111	Thank you. During these long years, when the Minister of Agriculture was Mr. Seeder, but also later, when Mr. Kruuse did this work, agriculture was always supported in Estonia. However, the matter became dim and strange from the moment the middle party took over the positions of responsibility. This has been proven chronologically in the press. The conditions were manipulated in such a way that it was beneficial for the activities and cooperative activities of the Central Party and your partner. You yourself have later ridiculed this conflict of interest in the press and have given absurd examples of how there was no conflict of interest and how everyone at the table knew about your involvement in this sector. Have you changed your mind today and maybe thought about it a little bit? Maybe this would be a place to admit your mistake and maybe apologize?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U112	Thank you for that question. You were wrong when you said in the question that in the past, during the previous government, everything was fine in agriculture. I opened a summary note from the Estonian Chamber of Agriculture and Trade last year, where they say what they achieved last year and what was not yet in the year before when your government was in place. Firstly, farmers were paid transitional payments, before that. Secondly, crisis aid was paid in full to milk producers and pig farmers. The European Commission decided to support farmers, with development aid paid to pig farmers. Once again, harmonisation of direct payments at European Union level is on the agenda. Another change, which is the result of my activities, but which did not take into account any individual company: tractors and mobile machinery were relieved of the obligation of accompanying vehicles. This is important to all farmers. It is also considered important to make a number of progress in the field of greening, that livestock and poultry farmers have escaped the obligation to register, etc. So the agricultural representative organisations do appreciate the rural policy of today's government. The previous government had a lot of omissions. Otherwise, farmers wouldn't have been at a demonstration here on Toompea.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U113	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U114	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! I will pass on the dissatisfaction of rural people and, in essence, the dissatisfaction of those car companies who have five cars and now have to pay big taxes and simply shut down the company because it is impossible to proceed. They sell cars because it is impossible for them to compete with large companies and get a job at all. In addition, people living on land who have old Soviet-era cars with a weight of 7,5 tonnes, GAZ 53, GAZ 52, must pay EUR 9 a day to carry out their chores at home. They say, "See, the neighbor has a tractor with a cart, he's easy, but I, the old fool, in my time, bought this car to get home. " How do you assess the laws on car taxation that have now been passed in your time?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U115	Thank you, dear Raivo Põldaru. You are talking about the road charge for heavy goods vehicles, which was introduced on 1 January. Estonia was the penultimate country of the European Union, which imposed this charge on heavy goods vehicles. The last one is Finland. The Finnish Ministry of Economic Affairs has already asked for our experience of how to introduce it, saying that Finland will set the same fee next year. In particular, it is designed to ensure that heavy goods vehicle charges in Estonia also pay those machines that are not in the Estonian register and which are not here, but are in Estonia for transit and therefore use our infrastructure. The experience of the first week tells us that one third of the heavy goods vehicle tax has been paid by machines that are not registered in Estonia. I mentioned earlier that this government cancelled the planned increase in diesel excise duty by 2018, of which more than EUR 30 million in additional revenue was planned. This increase did not take place, instead the heavy-duty charge was due, which is planned to reach 17 million. This 17 million, in turn, is expected to account for a pretty large part of international transport. So I think those people who have a company with five machines, for example, actually win.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U116	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U117	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, You will be accused that you, as Minister for Economic Affairs, do not base your decision on economic considerations and do not want to listen to expert assessments. I have a question about the Harjumaa bus routes. If you want free bus transport, what happens to commercial transport? Experts say that this will lead to the closure of commercial lines and the increase in prices on commercial lines. Commercial lines, for example, are of great importance in Harjumaa. The bus traffic is thin there, the frequency could be higher. Do you have peer reviews or analyses that say that free bus routes in Harjumaa do not lead to the closure and price increases of commercial bus routes? If you have these peer reviews and analyses, can you submit them to us? If you have them, can you briefly refer them here right now?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U118	Dear Aivar Sõerd! You're wrong, in Harjumaa, bus connections aren't thin. In Harjumaa, 6 million regular kilometres are covered by the public service contract and about the same number of commercial routes. More lines can be put in place for sealing, for which there is money in the state budget. You asked me if I was listening to experts, yes, I am listening to experts, even experts who have not given advice exactly to me, but to others. In this respect, please note that the previous Head of Government, Taavi Rõivas, called a group of experts, led by Erkki Raasuke. This group highlighted the points that should be made for economic recovery. One clear advice was to make it cheaper for rural people to travel to work. Free public transport was included in the advice.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U119	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U120	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Very honourable Minister! The section between Via Baltica Pärnu and Pärnu-Jaagupi took two more victims this Sunday. I drove past this place two hours ago, it felt really bad. My question is particularly to you as Minister for Economic Affairs: why do you prefer to spend money on a plane, I mean free public transport, knowing that, in fact, the price is not the biggest problem at the moment when we are talking about public transport, but rather about density, availability and comfort? Why do you prefer a plane to a money-sowing investment in roads? By adding 20 million, it could actually save a number of lives. This 2 + 1 option that you support is not a solution, as far as I know, if you look at the number of cars that are moving on this segment.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U121	Thank you for your question. The biggest infrastructure investments that will be implemented in Pärnu County in the coming years are particularly relevant to the development of Via Baltica. In order to improve this, additional EUR 44 million have been allocated over the coming years, just to build 2 + 2 lines. Road investments are based on research, we were based on traffic density and road safety. If, for example, the traffic density of Tallinn and Via Baltica is compared, it is possible to find sections with a traffic density of more than 10,000 machines per day, which require four lines. The first decision to turn Via Baltica into a four-rower came from this government, before proceeding with plan 2 + 1. I also believe that everyone who has travelled on the Pärnu highway, as I do closely, knows that there are often dangerous situations, because it is on the Pärnu highway that Via Baltica has the most car trains. Now let's talk about change. What positive change has taken place in Via Baltica? So far, the main emphasis was on developing the direction of Tartu and the section of Pärnu was entirely about the orphan. The figures confirm that. In the previous budget period, 115.6 million euros were invested in Tallinn's highway, and this is also the European Union's money planned for 109.6 million euros. We need to find more 40 million additional investments in the road management plan so that the road to Tallinn can be built in four lines up to Mäon. But only 39.3 million euros had been invested in Tallinn's highway before its government became operational. I stress: the traffic density is completely comparable. So I think that having made the first investment decisions and found 44 million to build 2 + 2 lines is very grateful, but not enough. Of course, after 2019 these investments will also have to go further towards Via Baltica.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U122	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U123	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. We have received propaganda in response to virtually all the questions that have been asked here in the Chamber. Thank you. You're doing this masterfully, you have to be commended, but we still don't get the real answers well. My question concerns the compliance and competence of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. The construction of 2 + 2 lines on highways is known to be planned according to the Swedish state's standards and not according to the latitude standards in force in the Republic of Estonia. My question is, how is that possible? And don't answer that this is the decision of the Road Administration. No, it's not. We asked him, and they said the order came from the Ministry you run. How is it still possible that we use the standards of another country that do not comply with our existing standards, and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications closes their eyes and says that everything is okay?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U124	Thank you, dear Mart Helme. I'm trying to give you substantive answers, it's not propaganda. At times, I get the impression that the heirs have not been familiar with the facts and that they have presented a question of inquiry at the moment, not a question of understanding, but of simply the joy of presenting a statement of distrust. I'm trying to give you some substantive answers. As regards the construction of a road with 2 + 2 lines, you have submitted a separate question on this subject. One day soon, on Monday, we will be able to spend a long time here in order to be more specific on this subject. Before that, I will also meet with the Road Administration to find out why such standards are applied.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U125	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U126	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, You've been in office for a little over a year. I have seen that, at the level of practically all newspaper editorials, your various decisions have been strongly criticised. Today we are here to discuss your mistrust. In your speech and answers, you keep saying that journalists are wrong and your opponents are wrong. Have you analyzed and wondered if you yourself have made any mistakes that neither the press nor the opponents can understand you?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U127	Thank you for your question. Well, there have been different editorials, and as a positive person, I'm paying attention to these good editorials. For example, Pärnu Postimees, in my home town newspaper today, had a very supportive editorial, and it did not understand why you are expressing mistrust, because it makes no sense, and there is no reason for it. Have I made mistakes? Yeah, I'm being eloquent. It's interesting to have an exchange of ideas here with me. If I gave you no telling answers, I don't think there'd be so many nice questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U128	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U129	Thank you. Madam Secretary! It would be interesting to have an exchange of views with you, if you would express a few thoughts. Let me remind you that you are accused of three things: firstly, a pattern of self-interest, secondly, a lack of economic argument, thirdly, blaming the whole world. What's more, the whole economic argument is that I gave the money and you didn't. It's not exactly how economic people talk. The economic people are talking about whether the state should do something and in what order this thing should be done. Your motivation has always been the opposite: yours first. Have you ever tried to justify your decisions on the basis of cost-benefit analyses, sustainability and comparison of alternatives, as economic people say? Have you ever tried this? Consider that this money does not come from an endless cup, but always needs to be made choices. You have more money, but still. Have you ever tried?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U130	Dear Jürgen Ligi! There are different reasons why any of you are in this room. When the motion of distrust was handed over, I heard it was done because I have moved on with the construction of Rail Baltic. Yeah, Martin Helme in the chair said that. You're shaking your head, but that's exactly what happened. Yeah, there's a cost-benefit analysis back there. Now, the fact that you've signed it, I've been wrong to start rebuilding the Haapsalu railroad. You don't like Pärnu airport. Yeah, they've got tests in the back. For years and years it has been calculated and explained on the spot that this would lead to regional growth. So every day, every day, we act to make the Estonian economy do better. True, you also have a number of questions that you will not ask me. For example, you have not stopped at the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Maritime Administration every day working to make Estonia a more attractive maritime country. We are working to ensure that large cargo ships come back under the flag of Estonia, and together with the Port of Tallinn, to ensure that the first state enterprise IPO of this century can be successfully carried out. So there's more to the analysis than you guys have probably wanted to read during your athlete's career.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U131	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U132	Thank you. Good Minister of Economic Affairs! I will then be the mysterious previous Minister for Economic Affairs, who received 24 shares of Viljandi ATP for privatisation securities, later in Hansabus. With these 24 shares, I have been a big player in the Estonian bus market, and these shares have always been included in my declaration of economic interests. As a result of my ministry, I left the bus market, I admit, for a total of EUR 18 and for a few years now, I wonder how to allocate this amount. But this whole thing you're saying points to what Jürgen Ligi said: instead of talking about content, you attack the questioners and the substantive arguments. My question is about Cargo Russian business. You say this has happened before. I assure you, as a minister, such an advance would not have been approved. My question is, what are the real reasons for your approval?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U133	Thank you. Indeed, I meant you when I mentioned that Hansabuss Võrumaa won the line procurement during your term of office. This led to long confusion because there was a specific condition. The solution was already found during the new minister. As for EVR Cargo, let's talk business. It is an asset rental in the transport sector, as is the rental of vans, hire of car trailers, hire of locomotives, chartering of ships. In this case, it is the rental of wagons. Estonian Railway, later EVR Cargo, has been doing so since the early 2000s. I think it is most important to say that the main interest in the rental of wagons has come from the east-west direction, i.e. from India, China and Kazakhstan, from those who serve these trade flows. Again with the sanctions. EVR Cargo has checked counterparties for sanctions. Wagons and wagon business are not sanctioned, nor are the tenants of EVR Cargo. I saw an inquiry, or at least a statement in its draft, as if we were somehow helping the companies subject to sanctions to solve their liquidity problems. On 1 March 2017, RŽD, or Russian Railways, issued a bond issue on the EU Member State's stock exchange, an Irish stock exchange of USD 500 million, was organised by J.P.Morgan, a major US bank. Why is EVR Cargo developing this business line further? Because their capacity has been seriously reduced and it was thanks to this business line that it was possible to close the previous financial year with a relatively small minus.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U134	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U135	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! You answered Jürgen Ligi here with your wit, but I must say that I trust Jürgen many times more in economic matters, because in the whole body, a healthy spirit, to remind you of his sports career, which you mentioned. But you brought in a grateful topic that matters to me very much, it is the shipping sector and, specifically, the luring of merchant ships under the flag of Estonia. At the same time, you know very well that passenger shipping is also very important for Estonia, which is part of the so-called freight transport. One of the largest companies in this area in the Baltic Sea region has repeatedly spoken about this issue and has also brought several of its ships under the Latvian flag. When will you as Minister of Economic Affairs, as you are highly competent on this subject, reach the point that we will not create any distinctions between merchant ships and passenger ships? When will you start making tax incentives for passenger shipping?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U136	Thank you for your question. Unlike you, I haven't worked on a passenger ship, but I think the sector is very important. The entire maritime sector will benefit from the fact that we are investing heavily and working hard to ensure that our shores sector is competitive and even more attractive than the shores sector of the rest of the European Union. We must bear in mind that in tax policy we cannot compete with flags of convenience. For us, too, the maritime sector will retain the tax. But the truth is that there are exceptions to maritime affairs in the rest of the European Union. We have so far ruled out any exceptions in the sector. The result is that there are no large merchant ships left in our register. So let's start where the worst is. In addition, we are reviewing the fees for waterways, because they are also affecting our competitiveness in many categories of ships, such as bulk carriers and tankers.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U137	It's Maris Lauri's turn next.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U138	Thank you. Good minister! You've confirmed here that you're listening to everyone. What I know is that one thing is listening and the other is taking into account. It still seems to me that maybe you really hear someone talking, but you don't take these things into account. Why would I say that? You were right here on the remote a little while ago, claiming that everyone else was wrong, saying that the economic development working group recommended free transport in rural areas. Having been a member of this working group myself, I can say that there was no such recommendation. Now, I'm making two conclusions: either you're either deliberately lying or you haven't read the material. Which one is it now?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U139	Mrs. Maris Lauri! I must admit, although I have a file with me here, I do not have this report with me. But I wouldn't have told you anything I wouldn't have checked in the past few days. As for the importance of listening, yes, of course, but surely you must listen to me too. I never once said everyone else was lying. It would not have been an adequate response. We have a different view of the world and we are based on different questions. In your opinion, as an economic person, rural life is obviously in no way viable and should not be supported, but I think it is worth the investment and support of regional policy in Estonia as well. You can't blame it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U140	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U141	Thank you. Good minister! Transport specialists have been extremely critical of your plan to sow money on public bus transport paid for by the state, instead of channelling resources, for example, to train traffic, where there is a high demand and there is a need for longer trains. You said you had increased your support for Elron. At the same time, the money will be taken back into the state's wallet, and the ease of use will not improve. People are willing to pay for a train ticket because the ride is comfortable. 80% of Estonian residents live near railway lines, and passenger train traffic is the only internal movement that can actually reduce time-space distances. Why do you act populistly by sowing money, knowing that it actually jeopardises the future quality of public transport throughout the country?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U142	Thank you. We're also investing in the railroad. Let's see the bill. When I became Minister of Economic Affairs, I discovered that Estonian Railway is in a situation where it has uncovered cumulative losses. By the State Budget Amending Act of 2017, we found an exceptional additional EUR 12 million to cover this loss. I would point out that this should have been done on an ongoing basis, since § 492 (5) of the Railway Act provides that the State must ensure that, under normal commercial conditions, the revenues of the infrastructure manager managing the public railways and the costs of managing the railway infrastructure are balanced over a period of five years. In addition to the fact that Estonian Railway received support, the government adopted a large-scale infrastructure investment plan. There are 35 million out of 135 million for railways: to renovate the Tallinn-Tartu railway in order to increase the speed of driving, there will be 10 million; to increase the speed of driving on the Tapa-Narva railway will be 17 million; and to increase the speed of the first stage of the Haapsalu railway will be 8 million. So we're investing in the railroad. Now, the question is, what's Elron's status? Elron is indeed in a position where the independent regulator TJA provided for the need to review railway charges. That 9 million was a necessity to find, that's what we found in this year's budget for Elron. So I think that optimal decisions have been made so that quality and traffic density can be improved in every mode of transport.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U143	Meelis Mälberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U144	Thank you. Good minister! Obviously, no one is arguing that a few years ago, the market situation in agriculture was a difficult time, especially in livestock farming. But for what reasons, and whose advice did you choose to give preference to rearing cattle, which was perhaps even more difficult than rearing pigs, to breeding pigs? You thought it was so important that you decided to participate in the negotiations on this chapter.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U145	Thank you. I really did participate in the rural chapter negotiations. We were in a situation where Russia's counter-sanctions had always led to news in previous months that one or the other farm was going bankrupt and was going out of business. It was difficult for both dairy farmers, because the price of milk was very low, as well as for pig farmers, because there was also an African swine fever in Estonia. Milk producers also need to produce feed to keep dairy cattle, that is to say they have agricultural land, and that means that the restoration of transitional payments also had a very positive effect on them. So there are a variety of measures that help different areas of agriculture. We tried to achieve a balanced approach so that all areas were treated fairly. That's the answer to the question. I'm gonna go back to Maris Lauri for a second. Krista Aru and Maris Lauri, I'm sorry and a moment of attention! I used to do Google with quick fingers. On page 24 of Erkki Raasuke's report, there are proposals to be made to improve the economic situation. You were in the task force. I didn't get a chance to google it if you were, like you said you were. Here is the proposal to provide more free transport between economic centres and workers' homes, on page 24.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U146	Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U147	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! According to the information submitted to the Riigikogu, ATKO Grupp is also known to be one of the bus transport companies with the largest contract volume on the routes subsidised by the state. If you wish now to increase the volume of existing state subsidised bus contracts, as we hear, then it is logical that the biggest beneficiary of this is the ATKO Group, a company associated with the Chairman of the Central Party Group. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U148	Thank you for your question. I looked at the public statements prior to the motion of distrust. It seemed that only ATKO Group would organise public transport on the county routes. Over the years, various procurements have been organised and the best offer has been won. The majority of contracts have been awarded for eight years. There are many companies that offer public transport services on county routes across Estonia. Just for the sake of not being impressed by one company, I will read them to you: OÜ Adraku Transport, OÜ Asundus, ATKO ka, OÜ Automen, OÜ Estonian Lines, AS GoBus, AS Hansabuss, MÜ Hargla, AS L&L, OÜ Lüganuse HVM, OÜ M.K.Reis-X, OÜ Rannu Rukkillill E.S.T., OÜ Rapla Bussipark, FIE Reinhald Pihlak, OÜ Remfakt, AS Samat, AS SEBE, OÜ T&T Transport, AS Temptrans, OÜ Tõnu Tours, OÜ Võru Taksod, OÜ Vändra Karu At present, they have the same price per regular kilometre, but it is covered by two thirds of the state budget and one third comes from ticket revenue. For the carrier, the kilometer of the line is today at the same price as it is on 1 July 2018. Nothing changes for the carrier.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U149	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U150	Thank you. Unfortunately, I have to admit that your actions as Minister for Economic Affairs are accompanied by a complete lack of competence, you have not worked a day in the private sector and, unfortunately, you do not share what you can do. However, you yourself brought forward Rail Baltic. Ernst & Young's analysis shows that it has a loss of almost 4 billion over the operating period. Unbiased analyses have shown that this is significantly higher because the figures used for Ernst & Young's analysis are completely incorrect. When you were in opposition, you opposed the construction of the 19th-century railroad, in terms of sluggishness and speed. Your perceptions changed on the day. We've seen it in a lot of things. Is this a jumpy approach to things, in your opinion, a good way for the Minister for Economic Affairs?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U151	Thank you, Honourable Heir! You're wrong about the facts. When I was a member of the Riigikogu, I was part of the Rail Baltic Support Group, and I was its vice-president. Now the question is why the Ministry of Economic Affairs is moving forward with the Rail Baltic project. Because it is the wish of the Riigikogu, the Riigikogu has ratified this agreement with its majority votes, and the wish of the Riigikogu is for us to fulfil.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U152	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U153	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. You were talking here about the big numbers of how much money we plan to put on the railroad this year and next year. But the people of Võru, Antsla and Valga have still not received an exhaustive response, which is why our government has not paid attention to the development of rail transport in this region. There is a railroad there, just maybe there's some amount to be allocated so that we can get this railway back on track, and in this forgotten corner the transport thing would be solved, there would be an exit through Valga to Riga and elsewhere. How about it, is it possible to explain to our people on the basis of some kind of research or something else, how much is there really people who need this transport?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U154	Thank you, Mr Sild, for this meaningful question. I think that regional rail connections are very important. But you yourself have signed a motion of distrust, where you accuse me of restoring the railways to a sparsely populated area. You resent that we're starting the reconstruction of the Haapsalu railroad based on research. If I can advise you, take the example of the people of West Estonia, do the same support group in the Riigikogu as 42 people have done to support the Haapsalu railway. If this is indeed the wish of the Riigikogu, then the people of the Võru area will one day receive a railway connection.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U155	Eerik-Niles Kross, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U156	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! You were talking a little bit about the car business with Russia. I have been in correspondence with you on this matter and I am pleased that, at least, there is no direct violation of the sanctioning regime. At the same time, it is quite clear that Russia's railways still have international financing problems. The road show you called London and the bonds, however, is the main operator of the VTB bank. It is a question of selling Russian state-owned bonds directly to investors, with the main investors being unknown Swiss investors. In fact, this scheme is to a large extent simply the return of Russian laundered money to Russia. But that's it. Objectively, though, we're ruining the spirit of sanctions in this business, but I really can't put my hand on it, it can be done. But I ask you this: if the Estonian state company has taken out a loan, built wagons in Russia, rents them out in Russia and pays off the state taxes, but what I predict will happen is that this business will be lost, will you take responsibility?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U157	There is more than one psychic fortune teller in the Reform Party. Of course, if this business goes south, the Minister will take responsibility. You're saying we're coming to help the Russian railways. I repeat again: I was talking about the issue made by Russian Railways in the form of a bond issue of USD 500 million on the Irish Stock Exchange. It was organised by J.P.Morgan, a large US bank. Did we go to help? Our share of wagons moving on the 1520 mm rail system, a total of 1.6 million, is 0.1%. This is a well-thought-out and calculated business plan for EVR Cargo, which has proved to be operational, and its volume has not been able to assist the Russian Iron Road.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U158	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U159	Thank you. I would first of all like to thank the attention that has been paid to the governments that I manage. This reminds me of the old story of the three envelopes with the advice, the first of which was: 'Blame the forerunner. ' But I recall that these envelopes are not reusable, but you have been using the first envelope for more than a year. The third advice is that you must put three in your envelopes. But this motion of mistrust, I hope that you will understand it, is not a question of political choices; it is a question of preferring a narrow circle; it is a question of unethical choices for taxpayers' money. I am not asking specifically about you, but in order to understand your ethical compass, do you, in principle, see an ethical conflict in a situation where someone decides to channel taxpayers' money for the benefit of their own neighborhood? Do you, in principle, see a problem in this?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U160	Of course, we have, for example, the code of ethics from which the members of the Riigikogu followed. In time, it was developed with Kaja Kallas. We also have clearly set out what corruption is. In this respect, I can say that I have done nothing like this.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U161	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U162	Thank you. Good minister! In one previous reply, you claimed that a motion of distrust was initiated because of joy. I very much doubt it because I, having been a member of the Riigikogu for ten years, have not signed a motion of distrust with a light heart, but always with a very difficult heart. But that's it. In my opinion, the decisions of the Minister and the politician must not only be legal, but they must also appear to be fair. Does the trade that has taken place around pig farming and the distribution of aid seem fair to you from outside?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U163	Yes, because it has been necessary to support the various sectors of agriculture. Let me remind you again where we were at the end of 2016. Every month some farms went bankrupt, nothing was done about our farmers being hit by Russian counter-sanctions, nothing was done about the African swine plague that had arrived in Estonia. Perhaps you could have said there was nothing to be done, but our neighbours did, and that is why we had this sector in a more difficult situation than our southern neighbours. It also had a clear effect on the table for all of us. There were times when Estonian pig farming produced as much as we consumed ourselves and was also exported. That is no longer the case. In order to reverse this declining trend, these subsidies were needed. They were not made to support any individual company, it was a rescue of the sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U164	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U165	Thank you. Dear Minister, Your response to Jürgen Ligi may have made it clear that you have something personal against athletes, but I don't think it's a subject that should be discussed here right now. You argued and have argued in the past that rail transport is more subsidised than bus and coach transport. We have also recently been able to read in the media your interesting debate with transport experts who have drawn your attention to the fact that you are using the wrong figures to describe the transport situation and that the situation is actually the opposite. You should pay more attention to the development of rail transport.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U166	Dear Jüri Jaanson! I assure you that I have nothing against athletes, I value athletes very highly, and I look forward to the beginning of the Olympics. But as far as rail transport is concerned, let us also acknowledge that Arno Sild said that the railway does not reach every county in Estonia. The only mode of transport that really covers every county is the county bus transport. That is why my priority is regional bus transport, which does not mean that rail is in the role of an orphan. On the contrary, in my previous answers, I have shown how much additional resources we have found on the railroad this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U167	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U168	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, When people talk about free public transport, I always get this conflicting feeling. Anyone who can analyze realizes that there is no free stuff in the world. If the government gives anything to anyone for free, he'll have to take it away from somewhere else or someone else. But my question is motivated by the question of Mr Sõerdi, which you did not answer. I'll ask you again. Do you have an impact analysis that says that free public transport does not put commercial routes in difficulty and does not force these companies to close commercial routes?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U169	Thank you for your question. Indeed, all the services we offer to our people have actually been funded. Emergency medical care is funded, everyone gets help in the event of an emergency. Higher education has been funded and elementary education has also been funded. It is part of our solidarity to finance those who do not directly need this service themselves. Rural public transport is a matter of regional policy motivation, so that people living away from centres should not spend significantly more than people living in centres to get a job, for example. If you wish, we can also call it an attempt to give relief to people who live in the country, because we want life in Estonia to be preserved in the country. It is true that very many people have now chosen a car, because bus and coach traffic does not meet all their requirements, so public transport centres have been told that they also have funding to tighten the lines. It's really real for the first time. There's another thing. We in the ministry are launching a pilot project to see what is the opportunity to create demand-driven public transport. This is the same thing that Tanel Talve has been talking about all the time: every person has the opportunity to call for a means of transport on the day he wants to drive and get back home at night. There is no such system or platform today, nor have there been any mappings of the machines that travel from one area to another in Saaremaa, for example, although it might be possible for Omniva's parcel machine to get you back to the centre in the morning and the freight car to take you home in the evening. But this week it was agreed that it would be important for the Innovation Task Force of the Ministry of Economic Affairs to find a solution to cover regional transport needs, which would also be in synergy with student transport and social transport. These modes of transport are all present, they operate at different levels, there is little contact between them. This, too, is what we are working to make all these things work. Now the question of what is going to happen in Harjumaa is whether all people are going to push into a public scheduled bus and leave, for example, small buses running at more favourable times. Harjumaa differs in some ways from the rest of Estonia's counties, Harjumaa people have more purchasing power. We have carried out a very thorough analysis of which commercial lines operate very closely with the routes operated under the public service contract. There aren't many of them. If commercial lines were to disappear somewhere, this gap could be covered by a compression of the routes operated under the public service contract.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U170	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U171	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! In your first reply, you said very clearly that the line of the Venstpils has been decided. At the same time, the Association of Islands said in November in the Voice of the Islands that an alternative, the Romessaare-Riga route, would also be studied. In the same article Enn Eesmaa said that they wrote the election program for this line of Mõntu-Ventspils in Saaremaa, because their successful candidate, Mihkel Undrest, is largely related to this idea and project. Have the decisions of the Ministry been based solely on the electoral programmes of the Centre Party? If not, why did the Ministry make a decision before the Association of Islands has reached an analysis, could the line of Romessaarera be more cost-effective for the Estonian state?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U172	Thank you, Madam Hatter. You didn't listen carefully to my answer. I didn't say that the Ventspils shipping line was decided. I said that the prerequisite for making progress with this was the deepening of the Port of Pleasant. This further development is a matter for the local area. I have received a copy of a letter to the Riigikogu, a letter addressed to Eiki Nestor, which says that it supports the provision of support from the state budget for the development of the port of Mõntu. The letter states: "The purpose of using the money is to carry out important work to restore the Ventspils shipping line in the port of Mõntu. At the moment, the Port of Mõntu is primarily a fishing port and such investments cannot be made at the expense of the port's own resources. Restoring the Ventspils shipping line is a very important connection for Saaremaa (also for Hiiumaa, as the flow of tourists would also pass through the neighbouring island). Strategically, the Port of Mõntu is also important for the whole of Estonia, as it is one of the westernmost ports in Estonia. Therefore, the planned investment is important for the State as a whole. Between 2005 and 2008, the shipping line operated between the ports of Mõntu and Ventspils and had a very positive impact on the tourism sector in Saaremaa. Passengers were estimated to be 90% of tourists travelling on their own, mainly from the Baltic States, Germany and Finland. During the 2006 season, the route was operated by 17,5 thousand passengers. In the wake of the economic crisis [... The line was shut down. Today, the economic crisis is over, and tourism flows to Estonia and Latvia are growing. There is a strong interest both in Ventspils city and in Saaremaa municipality in reopening the shipping line aimed at serving tourism between Saaremaa and Latvia. " So it's still the interaction and cooperation between the city and the municipality. The letter confirms that both municipalities are prepared to provide assistance in opening the route, including the introduction of the State aid possibilities for maritime transport available in Estonia and Latvia. There's still a letter. The representatives of Saaremaa municipality, Tambet Kikas and Jaanus Tamkivi, have signed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U173	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U174	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I will continue on the subject of the Port of Pleasant. It didn't make any sense what's going on with that 400,000 and where it's going. Has a cost-benefit analysis been carried out, studies to which it would be best to channel this money? Madis Kallas, the mayor of Saaremaa, has also said that a cost-benefit analysis should be carried out before making decisions, as it is clear that this line is unlikely to pay off without subsidies. Did the Ministry have a cost-benefit analysis before making this decision to channel this money to Mõntu (if it is still directed there, I didn't understand it at the end of the day), and how big should these subsidies be?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U175	You're talking about a shipping line that doesn't concern the Ministry right now. The negotiations are held between the municipality of Saaremaa and the municipality of Ventspils.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U176	Remo Holsmer, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U177	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, Kadri! You have said in your answers that there have been no mistakes in your administration, and everything is super good. I remembered Mr Ossinovski, who here a while ago said that the government had made two mistakes, namely tax policy in terms of unforeseenness and also tax rape. In my opinion, the pretty good form of open government is when a member of the government says something critical about government activities. I will also give you the opportunity to mention the two or three mistakes you have made in your area of government, but if you want to expand it and say something at the address of the entire government, you are free to take advantage of this opportunity.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U178	Hi, Remo! When it comes to taxes, it can be said that there really came a lot of tax news from the government last year. I think the Ministry of the Economy actually managed quite well with the road charge for heavy goods vehicles and its implementation. But you see, there are small entrepreneurs in Jõgeva County who resent the fact that we have a road user fee. It must therefore be said that we have not explained the principle that the 17 million that are planned to be charged for road use will come directly into the infrastructure and that this charge will be common throughout Europe. It's complicated to explain taxes. None of us want to pay more. But I generally think that the road user charges for heavy goods vehicles, which have been transported by our ministry, are European-wide, used by all European countries except Finland, negotiated with the sector, and have been based on impact analysis.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U179	Terje Trei, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U180	Thank you! Good minister! I have a lot of questions, but unfortunately, I can only ask one. Since you still have not clearly understood that it is not perfectly normal for your loved ones to receive certain benefits, strangely at the last moment of qualifying for the right standards, I am not going to deal with this issue. But here's the question. We heard in December that your ministry was attended by a high-ranking Russian government official, Deputy Minister of Transport, but we heard it afterwards. How was this matter resolved in your administration, whether someone could be reprimanded for not receiving information from the press, or whether you think that there is just one Deputy Minister of Transport from Russia that is so irrelevant that it does not have to be communicated to the public?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U181	Thank you. Thank you for your question. My press department has been trying to explain. In the second half of last year, Estonia was the Presidency of the European Union and, for several years, when the Transport Committee of Estonian and Russian ministries met in Tallinn, I chaired the Energy Council in Brussels. The agenda was very tight and we could not be sure that I would return to Estonia on Tuesday. The ambition was great, and the miracle of miracles, all the goals we set were met in the Council, they were approved, and all this was assessed as the hardest chapter of the Estonian Presidency. Therefore, it was not a courtesy visit to meet the Russian Deputy Minister, anything specific, nor was it included in my agenda, because I could not be sure that I would be back from Brussels in time. Speaking of whether it was extraordinary that there was a meeting of the Transport Committee of Estonian and Russian ministries, then yes, in some ways it can be said that it was extraordinary. It was now held in Tallinn on 18 and 19 December 2017, before that it had taken place in Moscow on 26 and 27 June 2013 and before that on 29 September 2009 in Tallinn. It's kind of rare. But there have been more meetings of the Joint Committee of Estonian and Russian Transport Ministries on Road Traffic. It was last held in October 2016 in Tallinn, before that in November 2015 in Ivangorod and before that in December 2011 in Moscow and then in May 2011 in Tallinn. So this is transport cooperation. My meeting was a "summary" of what was agreed between us. For example, there was talk about how customs procedures can be speeded up in train traffic between Tallinn and St Petersburg, and about what will result from the introduction of heavy duty.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U182	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U183	Dear Kadri! I'd have a lot to ask, too, but all the good questions, or at least most of them, have already been asked. I found a good question, though. I want to ask you what it is like to stand here in front of the Riigikogu today and discover that half of the Riigikogu thinks you are dishonest, incompetent and incompetent.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U184	Thank you. I actually thank this side of the Riigikogu because the questions have been very relevant. I thank this half of the Riigikogu, who has admitted in private conversations that this is just what you have to do. I have been in opposition for a long time, I know that from time to time, that is the work of the opposition. Good luck with all of us in this good debate! I will always be happy to come before you and answer all the questions as thoroughly as I can.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U185	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U186	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! With your answers, you clearly show that you do not trust the Minister for Rural Affairs, your party partner. As far as the incompetence of interviewers on zones is concerned, it must be acknowledged that it is not about who establishes the zones, but about the money that is distributed to the zones, and about who has a pig that is fatter, or who receives more subsidies. These figures have clearly been manipulated in their own interests. On 5 January, however, Tarmo Tamm sent us a letter listing all the crisis relief measures that clearly indicate that the European Commission, the Government of the Republic and the Ministry of Rural Affairs have cooperated with the parties involved in the sector. As a result of this cooperation, one fact has been revealed that can also be acknowledged by the farmer of the year, Lembit Paal. I have with me the Farmer's Journal, where he says the crisis is over, prices are finally normal again. You have justified all your actions, including in the pig sector, by the fact that the sector was in a deep crisis in 2016. It's been an excuse for what they've done. Don't you feel that a member of the Riigikogu doesn't have an ethical stand for the interests of their loved ones?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U187	Thank you. I must admit that this is true in the text of the application, both as regards the changes to the conditions of the zones laid down for the purposes of pig aid and the swine plague, I did not understand in any way that you are talking about something that is not being done by the European Commission. The wording made an incomprehensible impression. As regards whether or not the sector is in crisis, I expect you to be a member of the Committee on Rural Affairs, meet the people in the sector and ask whether the fact that they receive equal or slightly lower support than the Latvian farmers has helped them to survive the swine plague and the continuation of Russia's sanctions. I'm not an agricultural expert. True, because of the events of the last few weeks, I have read a great deal about the subject. I am still convinced that the Estonian state must ensure equal conditions for farmers, just as our neighbours must. The grants will at least provide them with an equal position.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U188	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U189	Thank you. Good Kadri! Listening to your answers, I recall your former chairman's famous expression "clean as a spectacle stone." Now the chairman is sitting on trial. When your government came to power, you proudly announced that you would also cleanse the Centre Party of the so-called corrupt thinking. How have you done this work, and what have you done to clear the Centre Party of this mentality?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U190	Good Arthur! We work for this every day. Above all, your own actions can set an example. As a minister, I have not made any decisions that favour one or the other undertaking or person. I have been thinking about Estonia's general course of action and I can assure you that my colleagues will do the same. In fact, deciding whether I have done my job well and whether it has been understood is in the hands of the voters. I think I've received a lot of support in these last few weeks, and I got a lot of support from the people of Pärnu in the local elections. That's what I'm working for.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U191	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U192	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Secretary! I will return to the previous questions and your answers, namely the report of this economic working group. On page 24, you quoted and stated clearly and firmly that there was a recommendation for free public transport. Mrs Maris Lauri argued otherwise that there was no recommendation. Which one is lying and where, or are there different interpretations? I have read that this is, above all, a recommendation to employers to organise the transport of workers between home and workplace, but not free public transport.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U193	It's a document that we all have on the Internet. I'll read it to you again. The title here is 'Enhancing job placement in the economy'. On page 24, it is proposed to provide more free transport between economic centres and workers' homes, to improve transport connections and to increase the compatibility of the different transport schemes. That, too, is what we are working on, we are improving and strengthening transport connections and we are working to ensure that they are well connected. Then it has been said here that a special bonus should be abolished for companies at the cost of supporting workers' mobility. That's what we did. The company, which brings its own employees to work, still had to pay a special preferential tax, now it does not have to.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U194	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U195	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! We have been here for some time now listening to your answers to questions. I mean, maybe this sprain and the superiority in giving a response to some of the Members may have been intended as an attempt to conceal substantive uncertainty or incompetence, but I think it has been a very unsuccessful tactic in any case. The main reason for this motion of censure discussed today is the motives behind your actions in making several decisions. My question concerns EVR Cargo, whose general meeting you are on, and which we have been very critical of in Parliament in the past because of our dealings with the Russian transport sector. Are you confirming here in front of Parliament that the wagons purchased by the Estonian state company under sanctions from Russia were not purchased at a higher price than the market price?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U196	Thank you, Mrs. Pentus-Rosimannus! I may have answered one question with too much humor, but it came from the fact that this questioner claimed that I blamed the whole world that I didn't do absolutely. As far as EVR Cargo is concerned, the Supervisory Board, which cooperates with the company's management every day, has repeatedly checked whether the offer corresponds to the market situation. It should also be borne in mind that wagons acquired must have access to the market throughout the 1520 mm network. I have been assured by both the board of directors and the management of the company that this is the best offer.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U197	Martin Repinski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U198	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. In particular, I wanted to thank the opposition for having already given the picture for several weeks that, thanks to the Centre Party and our coalition partners, agriculture has recently received much more subsidies and agriculture is doing much better. For those people who have claimed that the cause of the crisis in agriculture was only that the price was low, I would say that there was, in fact, another very important reason. For example, top-up was paid in Latvia and other neighbouring countries, and our farmers had to compete with farmers who were certainly in a better position. When we had a debate in the group on agriculture and subsidies involving a high-ranking public official, we asked him directly, which is why farmers are not receiving support at the moment. He said that the reason is that the Prime Minister does not think this area is sexy, he thinks it's a sexy area of startups or IT, and as long as it doesn't change, the situation in agriculture will not change. My question is why some politicians are so hypocritical.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U199	Thank you, Martin, for this supporting question. I'm sure you're a bigger specialist in agriculture than I am, but I too, when I was a member of the Riigikogu and a leader of the political group, was very sympathetic to the problems of the entire agricultural sector. We also listened to these representative organisations in our group. It was logical, therefore, that, in the coalition negotiations, we dealt with this issue in depth. The change of government has brought a completely different kind of rest to the countryside than it was before.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U200	Good Minister, the members of the Riigikogu have no further questions for you. Now is the time to open negotiations. On behalf of the Reform Party Group, Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U201	Honourable Riigikogu! I would like to start by reminding you why we have gathered here today and why the three groups of the Riigikogu expressed their mistrust. We express our mistrust to Minister Kadri Simson because he is based on his decisions, not on the Estonian economy, but on the political and family interest. It does not justify its choices in an appropriate manner to the Minister for Economic Affairs, nor does it provide substantive answers to journalists, experts or opponents. Minister Samson does not have an impact analysis or a comparison of alternatives and does not perceive the origin of money or conflicts of interest. I would like to stress that we do not blame Kadri Samson for what the prosecutor's office has called into question his partner. However, we complain to him that he does not understand the political responsibility for earning foreign money for the interests of those involved. We deplore the fact that through the companies involved in pig farming, his direct involvement has brought benefits to his party associates and close relatives, through the use of inside information and manipulation of the terms of the grants. Instead of economic considerations, we also deplore party interests in transport policy. The so-called free bus transport plan is not supported by expert analysis or even by coalitional associates. I would also stress here that Mr Raasuke's report certainly did not talk about free county routes, but about the tax credit that an employer must receive who transports his own employees. This is Samson's vass, too. The preference for intra-terrestrial bus routes breaks down the transport system, treats people in different regions unequally, kills out local authorities and commercial routes and harms train traffic. Samson's plan results in price increases, inconveniences, or even loss of routes for many passengers. One of the winners is the bus business of one partymate, because he no longer has to worry about the ticket revenue. The economic justification has also not been shown in its various investment preferences, but there has been a political interest. There is no reliable argument as to why to spend money for the private port of a party partner, without a cost-benefit analysis, both from a state and even from a commercial point of view. We certainly condemn the EVR Cargo wagon business in Russia, which is under the control of the Minister, which undermines Estonia's political decisions, in this case international sanctions against Russia. Kadri Simson himself actively justified EVR Cargo's risky wagon business and released the chairman of the supervisory board who had questioned it in order to essentially break the restrictions on access to the financial markets imposed on Russia. That's the content of our mistrust. We must bear in mind today that this debate has not answered these questions and that our doubts have not been allayed. As we have seen today, Kadri Samson repeatedly had the opportunity to refute allegations of self-interest and conflict of interest. He repeatedly had the opportunity to answer that question, but he did not take it. I think it's a sign. Secondly, the Minister used this speech chair here to attack the opponents personally, often quite, I would say, in a low-style and completely irrelevant way. I think that these personal insults to the opposition will in no way improve Estonia's political culture or increase respect or confidence in the Minister. We understand that Kadri Simson is afraid of the Reform Party, but among the distrusters are members of the EKRE and the Free Party. The saddest of all, we continue not to hear economic arguments from the Minister on a number of issues. We hear demagoguery, slogans, an election program, but not a bill, not substantive answers. This is all sad in our opinion, because we see a clear trend here: it is the development of Tallinn's political culture into the state level. We find this worrying and sad. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U202	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U203	Tallinn's political culture is not something that should be copied at national level. State policy has long been much more argumentative, much more professional, much more transparent, at a much higher level. Such a middle party style of favoritism, suspicious decisions, and attacking opponents is certainly not a pleasure. We no longer have any illusions, as if the change of chairman had changed something substantive in the Centre Party. There is no renewed Centre Party. There is a request, in particular, to the Socialists and the IRL: you still have the opportunity to stop this roller. There's also a friendly suggestion for Kadri. It seems to me that he is still in the role of Secretary General of the Centre Party in making his decisions and giving answers here. It is time to come out of this central party and understand that the Government of the Republic and the interests of the Estonian state are represented. This should also be done. To conclude, honourable Riigikogu, the Reform Party continues to distrust Kadri Samson because we mistrust the motives behind his actions and see his competence as neither the head of the field nor the economic man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U204	Artur Talvik on behalf of the Group of the Estonian Free Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U205	Good President! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! When the Free Party came into politics, one of the goals was to change the political culture in Estonia, inter alia to change the perception that politics is about directing public money to the so-called ones. Our aim was to change this way of thinking and to introduce a way of thinking that what we are doing, the decisions we are making, we are doing for Estonia, not for one of our loyal party companions who will be organizing votes for us in the next election. When the government led by the Centre Party came to power a year ago, both by the Prime Minister's mouth and by the other members of the Centre Party, at least by those members or some member who are here in the Riigikogu, it was heard that they were fighting the corrupt way of thinking that has been in this party and the image of which has been the governance of the city of Tallinn. Perhaps some naive people believed that such a struggle would take place, but there have already been a number of criminal cases, a corrupt case, during the year that this government has been under the leadership of the Centre Party. The reason we mistrust Kadri Samson today is precisely part of the same system, which is what I said at the beginning: supporting our own, giving priority to our interests over the interests of Estonia. A very good example is the Port of Pleasant. One person, a port owner, is rewarded for being prepared to take the lead in the Central Party in Saaremaa. Without doing any research, money will be provided to deepen the port and it is unprecedented that it will also be put into the budget as a separate line. I find such mistrust and so-called over-crititation unpleasant. But it has to be done. Perhaps there are other sins today, or such a way of thinking more broadly, on Kadri Samson's collar. But in Kadri Samson's jurisdiction, these things have happened the most now. In the Free Party, we very much want Estonia's policy to clear this way of thinking and to end political corruption in Estonia. That's why we signed this motion of distrust. We will continue to act hopefully to ensure that such a change in Estonian politics comes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U206	On behalf of the Estonian Centre Party Group Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U207	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I want to thank EKRE for having the sincerity and honesty to admit that there are no friends in politics, there are friends today, and there are others tomorrow. But be careful with this cynicism! With the Centre Party, you were successful when we mistrusted a reform party together, today you are in pairs with the Reform Party, and you are unsuccessful, and your mistrust is not behind us. You let Jürgen Ligi talk you down for nothing, and you came here instead of him. I also understand that the Reform Party cannot actually read this statement in a clear and honest face here, because the Reform Party is in a crisis of governance, they themselves have been very successful in distrusting the chairman of their party, they are looking for their last straw in Brussels and they hope that it will arrive in April, the floor will be covered with roses and perhaps there will be new breathing. The Reform Party has the biggest debt burden in its history. Perhaps there is some kind of corrupt link: if there was power, there was no debt, if the opposition was overthrown, then there was unexpectedly a large debt burden of almost one million euros. Maybe we need to find a connection. When we look at the text of a motion of distrust, we see that it is somehow tragedized by random ideas. No matter how much you disprove one false claim, the opposition will always have the opportunity to present it over and over again in its political indiscretion and to say that they did not receive an answer. That right is always there. Let us look at the steps that have been taken for the good of the countryside. They are recognised by the Chamber of Commerce, the Farmers' Confederation and the Farmers' Confederation, but the Reform Party believes that they are nobody, their opinion does not matter, their coordination does not matter. The accusation that one of our party mates benefits from subsidising county lines is completely incompetent. It's like you weren't in power in the country. It may have been possible to distribute money in this way in the Port of Tallinn, but public procurements, when the procurement terms are in place, are subject to a public competition, each cent is transparent, there is no way to give money to anyone secretly. It's a shameless lie, but the Reform Party will be happy to ride it. Let us be clear on what the motive for this motion of distrust really is. Once you want to distrust Malik, once to Jüri, then it turns out no, you're still gonna release it to Kadri. You don't have any constructive ideas. Political jealousy is behind all this distrust. The very successful governance of the IRL, the Social Democrats and the Centre Party, the greater contribution to security, health care, community education and the local government revenue base, are irritating to you because you yourself failed to do so. I'll give you an example so you can understand. Haapsalu wins over 200000 euros from the correction of the local government's income base. We can raise the pay of music school teachers from EUR 780 to EUR 1000. You don't care. We can put more than EUR 152000 more into recreational education. You don't care. You're accusing me that there's been no analysis of the Haapsalu railroad. You're lying. There's a technical university study. Hiiumaa is waiting for this railway, Raplamaa is waiting for it, Läänemaa is waiting for it, Harjumaa is waiting for it. Everyone has expressed their support, but you say no one needs it. You think these four counties don't even exist. Let's talk about the Haapsalu railroad. I would remind you that the latest constructions for the electric railway were made in the year... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U208	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U209	... 1981. Now, during the Ratas government, such important major steps are taken and it is decided that one step forward, from Rice family to Turbo. Analysis shows that there are 90,000 boarding and departures at the rice family train station alone, when driven to Turba, there are 130,000. But you want to take that well-being away from people! There's research back there, there's counties back there. I can't find any factual arguments in your motion of distrust. You're accusing them of responding to propaganda. There's an anti-propaganda, where one false accusation chases the other. Of course, I'm a little disappointed in my good comrade Arthur Talvik. I thought he'd come here and tell us everything he really knows about the Port of Tallinn, but today he didn't want to do it. We'll wait for the next time. Take care!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U210	Mart Helme, on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U211	President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Well, wait for what? Still propaganda, because politicians don't know how to push propaganda out of their mouths. That's what we've heard here today. Thank you to the previous speaker for paying some attention to our humble group and putting us in a boat with the Reform Party this time. I remember those times when the members of the Reform Party kept putting us in a boat with the Central Party, and we had to have two butts on one ass with the Central Party. Oh, great! Some people might think we're gonna go in the buttocks, what the hell. That's what politics is like to do to each other. The reality is something else. The reality is that we are pursuing the interests of the Estonian people, which we are mapping from our perspective on the interests of the Estonian people. Let's look at this motion of distrust. We can see that we can use one of the words of the classic. In this case, the classic is dictator Jossif Stalin, who has used the expression: 'But isn't it too many coincidences? ' So let's count these odds. Increase in the price of a railway ticket. Construction of a small section of the Haapsalu railway. Of course, it is very useful for the previous speaker to be propagandist, because he is running for election in this district. At the same time, 17 million were not found on the railway between two large cities, between Tallinn and Pärnu, so that rail traffic could be maintained in the long term. We are comforted by the presence of Rail Baltic. Maybe in the 25th century, maybe there will be, you know, maybe then spaceships will fly around Estonia, I can't say. Maybe he will, but he won't. At the moment, this money was not given, and this decision came from this ministry. There's been a lot of talk about the fun here. This is scandalous, comrades! This is scandalous, comrades, because there are several ports in Saaremaa and there has been shipping traffic between Saaremaa and Ventspils. I've been engaged in tourism, and I wanted to start driving groups. It turned out that the line was so damn expensive that no group was willing to pay that price. This line's been shut down. Now, for good luck, we're gonna dig a hole somewhere in the Port of Merry. One day spaceships will fly across the water between Merry and Riga, one day they will. So it's scandalous and there's no point in talking here like it's not scandalous. It's about drowning money. Free intra-terrestrial transport. You know, sometimes I miss Russian time back. Of course, it is politically incorrect to say so, but I got three buses a day from the complete village of Küla to Tallinn. Three buses a day! Now it's a long time ago, and there's no buses left. So there's no point in talking. Here it is very clear that Tallinn's free transport scheme is the same, but it is forgotten that Tallinn is Tallinn and the rest of Estonia is the rest of Estonia. It is not possible to compare Põlva or Hiiu county with Tallinn; these are completely incomparable things. Putting the same scheme on them and saying that we're doing the exact same thing, it just doesn't work, it's another experiment with taxpayers' money and directing taxpayers' money to where it at least makes it look corrupt. Maybe it's not corrupt, no one's proved it on black white, but maybe it is. Maybe it is, maybe it isn't. There has also been talk about pig rearing. We are not talking about family or, say, personal relations, we are talking about the fact that one of the leading pig farmers in Estonia, Urmas Laht, is a member of the Centre Party and in this scheme. I'm sure there's other people. I haven't been fingering everyone. Oh, yeah, the road charge. That's not a good idea! It should have been a transit road user fee, but not a road user fee for our own small businesses, our own companies. It shouldn't have been like this, but it was pushed through. Taxation of company cars. It's totally insane, but it's pushed through. A wagon deal that has been mentioned. Very suspicious story, very suspicious story. If we put in another visit from the Russian Deputy Minister, the more suspicious the story is. And now if we ask...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U212	Good waitress, your five minutes are up. Would you like some extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U213	More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U214	Three minutes? Please! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U215	Now let's go back to the propaganda avalanche we heard here from some of the previous speakers. Excuse me, Minister. Minister, please listen to me! We do not express any distrust today for the Reform Party or the President of the Reform Party or any other opposition party. We're distrusting you! There's a little difference. There is no point in mocking insulting phrases against opposition parties and their members. That's not the subject today. The issue is the mistrust of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. So in this sense, heaven could come to earth. And also, there's a general background. This general background consists, among other things, of a fierce increase in excise duties and an alcorall in Latvia. Maybe this Port of Pleasant is designed to open a new alcoral channel, I don't know, maybe it is. But in any case, it's a general background. If you ask why we joined the motion of distrust, our group specifically, I will tell you why. Because we're full of your heel turns. When we were in opposition, we were allies on the question of Rail Baltic, on the issue of the President's direct election, on the issue of e-vote, on the issue of administrative reform. As soon as you were in power, you made a total heel turn. We don't trust you anymore, and we don't trust your government anymore. Very simple: What you sow, you reap, who sows the wind, it reaps the storm. Finally. You're very confident, and you're saying that this disclosure of mistrust is going to fail anyway. Maybe it will, but you see, it's a milestone, it's a sign that the trust credit that your government had at first very large has run out. Your trust credit has reached the end of the line. You should draw a very serious conclusion from this. I see you're just laughing, but whoever laughs later laughs better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U216	Mr. Karilaid, would you like a recliner? [[???M. Helme saalist: 'Aga ma ta nime ei nimetanud, ma rääkisin eelkõnelejast.'???]] However, the Rules of Procedure provide that when it comes to the point of view, it is also possible to give a rejoinder. So please, Mr. Karilaid!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U217	Thank you! We have a democratic society. The Chairman of the EKRE Mart Helme assumes powers which he does not have. The first stage of the Haapsalu railway is not located in Läänemaa, but in Harjumaa, which is the section of the Rice Family. I'm not running for Turbish, even though he really wants me to go there.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U218	Got it. The political groups have no further requests to speak. Before the final vote, we need to carry out a verification of presence, as this is a draft decision which requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu. Dear members of the Riigikogu, please pay attention, now we are doing a presence check. Checking for presence. 94 members of the Riigikogu are currently present and we are currently missing 7 members of the Riigikogu. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the distrust of Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Kadri Samson. Please take a stand and vote. 44 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of harassment, 49 against and no abstentions. [[Let's hear it.]] The Riigikogu did not distrust Kadri Samson. Ladies and gentlemen, this item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U219	We will go to the next item on the agenda, which is the Prime Minister's overview of the state of research and development and government policy in this area. For the presentation, I invite Prime Minister Jüri Ratas to the Chair. Before the Prime Minister reaches the remote control, I remind you that the presentation of the Prime Minister is up to 30 minutes, every member of the Riigikogu has the right to ask one oral question, and then there is the negotiation of the political groups. Please, Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U220	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Happy audiences and other listeners! Last year was a successful year for Estonian science. This was confirmed by the evaluation carried out: our science is internationally competitive, forward-looking and serves society in a variety of ways, in addition to direct research results, researchers also contribute to peer reviews, for example, by participating in the preparation of study materials and dictionaries or by popularising science in society at large. The development of our infrastructure has also been a source of joy. Before I go any further on these issues, let me thank everyone who has contributed to the drafting of today's report. First of all, I mention the Riigikogu Committee on Culture, before whom I had the opportunity to be present yesterday. I would certainly like to thank people from the State Chancellery, the Ministry of Education and Research, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the Ministry of Finance, the Institute of Chemical Physics and Biophysics and the Estonian Academy of Sciences, as well as the Council of Rectors and, of course, the Scientific and Development Council. I am pleased that the achievements of Estonian science have reached the top of the world. The number of high-level publications of our researchers per million inhabitants has increased on the basis of the Web of Science database and is currently above the European Union average. It is well known that it is also important in Estonia to receive international recognition for its work and activities. I am therefore very pleased to note that our progress is confirmed by the rankings of international universities. For example, in the QS rankings of the international consultancy firm, the University of Tartu rose several places higher in general, reaching the list of 959 leading universities in the world to a dignified 314th place. Tallinn University of Technology is also valued: it is between 610th and 650th place. In 2017, the Estonian University of Life Sciences was the only one of the Estonian universities in its own area, i.e. among the 100 best universities in the field of agriculture and forestry. The Estonian Academy of Arts and Tallinn University are also represented in the rankings of the specialties. The good work of our scientists is being noticed and recognised worldwide. The European Research Council rewarded Tambet Teesalu with EUR 150,000, a researcher from the University of Tartu, to support his research in finding and reaching wider use of smart cancer medicine. Liisi Keedus, the first senior researcher of the Institute of Humanities of the European Research Council, brought the first European Research Council grant to Tallinn University, whose five-year project is supported by the European Research Council with 1.4 million euros. Scientists are mapping and analyzing the thought patterns that arose after World War I as a counterweight to the religion of progress. The boiling has very well pointed out that the contradiction between progressive expectations and disappointment-formed experiences is no stranger in today's Europe. Liis Keedus' grant is a good indication that humanities and social sciences are and must not be underestimated in any way alongside natural sciences and exact sciences. Raivo Vilu, professor of biotechnology at Tallinn University of Technology, also deserves recognition, who has studied the microbial processes used in the food industry for years and was awarded the prestigious DuPont Medal in the year that ended in his research. We have become more open and international. Several of the world's top scientists have started working in Estonia, which is certainly invaluable in terms of inspiration and transfer of knowledge. On the other hand, many Estonian scientists who have gathered experiences elsewhere in the world have found their way back home to Estonia. This has been easier if contacts with researchers from home have been maintained during the period spent abroad. The conference 'The biggest challenges of the XXI century' held in Tallinn at the initiative of the Estonian Academy of Sciences at the beginning of the year brought together our young scientists from various countries around the world. This is a good example of work to maintain contacts. I thank the President of the Estonian Academy of Sciences, Tarmo Soomere, for initiating such activities and, of course, taking the lead! Recently, it is often asked what the impact of science on society is. Speaking in the language of numbers, the recent survey commissioned by the Council of Rectors assessed the impact of universities in Estonia for the first time. It turns out that Estonian universities make a significant contribution to the country's economy: 6.4% of gross domestic product. Every euro invested in Estonian universities will return 4.6 euros to the country's economy. Of course, total R &amp; D expenditure cannot only be measured in figures. It is difficult to overestimate the impact of our national sciences on the development of language and culture, the impact of peer reviews of scientists on the attitudes of the wider public or on national security. An example is the work of the Defence Investment Centre, the expertise of scientists on increasing the country's cyber security. Science plays a central role as a guarantor of social cohesion, as a developer of the economy and thereby as a driver of the well-being and well-being of all of us. The Estonian competitiveness plan 'Estonia 2020' aims to increase productivity per employed person to 80% of the European Union average by 2020. For this figure, according to Eurostat, we have not succeeded in recent years: it has decreased from 73.8% in 2014 to 71.3% in 2016. In order to improve the situation, the government is making efforts to address the concerns of the labour market, education and health care, and to support entrepreneurs, but more is certainly needed: a joint effort by all parties is needed. On the one hand, we are creating and exporting products and services with low and medium value added. On the other hand, research by Estonian researchers has not often been involved in the development of these same products and services. This is largely due to the weak pressure on companies to choose scientific topics. And so the potential of science in the process of making the Estonian economic structure more knowledge-intensive has been underexploited. Investment in development is expensive, risky and long payback, which is why they are often delayed. However, in the context of wage growth and critical labour shortages, Estonian entrepreneurs are increasingly thinking about how to increase productivity through new technology and knowledge. We want to encourage the involvement of researchers in the creation and development of new products and services. By raising researchers' incomes and improving their working conditions, we will motivate them more to deal with business projects, and we will also help companies to mitigate these high risks by means of public measures. More capable entrepreneurs are won by the wider public, both in terms of better job opportunities and, of course, in terms of tax revenue. One of the most difficult tasks of the government is to maintain the volume of R &amp; D funding and, let me say, increase. The reduction in the European Union's structural resources in the next period will not make this task easier. In 2016, total R &amp; D expenditure in Estonia decreased by 32 million euros, reaching 270 million euros. This represents only 1.28% of GDP and is less than half the target for 2020, or 3% of GDP. The decline is linked to the European Union's Structural Funds. By 2016, the previous period of financing from the Structural Funds had ended and a new preparation and first financing decisions took place. The start of the projects has not yet started. Based on public budget and growth forecasts, public R &amp; D expenditure reached 0.78% of GDP in 2017. The final figure will be revealed and maybe it'll even take a year before I can tell you that figure. Currently, it is estimated that in 2018 our R &amp; D expenditure will be 0.81% of GDP. And here, too, I will add that the final percentage will become clear when it is known what the economic growth in 2018 has been. But in 2018 this figure will also increase because the Riigikogu has decided to increase the state's R &amp; D investment by 14.9 million euros, on the proposal of the government. I would like to reassure all those in doubt here that we certainly have not abandoned the aim of increasing public funding to 1% of GDP. Estonian researchers and innovative entrepreneurs have been very successful in the European Union's research and development and international cooperation programme Horizon. In total, we have received over EUR 80 million from Horizon, which represents more research funding per capita than the average in the European Union. In terms of GDP, we are the third largest among the Member States in terms of participation figures. Even more important, however, are the new knowledge and contacts that international research networking offers both our researchers and participating companies. However, there is a clear gap between innovation leaders and the level of private R &amp; D expenditure in Estonia. In 2016, these expenditures, as in the previous year, amounted to EUR 139 million. Total private R &amp; D expenditure represents 0.69% of gross domestic product instead of expected 2%. 90% of the costs were made by less than a hundred companies. For example, Chemi-Pharm, a manufacturer of cleaning products and cosmetics for the medical sector, invested 10% of its turnover in R &amp; D in 2016 and cooperates with research institutions around the world. Last year I personally visited the Saaremaa company Baltic Workboats, who was impressed with their development, large investments and international reach. The company actively cooperates with scientists such as Kuressaare's competence centre for small ship construction and Tallinn University of Technology. Unfortunately, there are few such examples. In the business sector, only a very small number of companies are involved in R &amp; D and, of course, we are doing everything to make a difference. That's what we're working for. Estonia's performance in the European Union Innovation Union Scoreboard also confirms the need for change. For the last five years, Estonia has been 13.15. there, and he'd rather fall there than move forward. The biggest weakness in Estonia is the modest innovation capacity of companies. It is clear that we must strive for better. Members of the Riigikogu! Increasing R &amp; D volumes is, I think, our common goal. I sincerely thank everyone, every member of the Riigikogu in this Chamber, who has contributed by participating in the discussions of the state budget and approving the aim of improving the funding of Estonian research. The planned increase in investments of EUR 14,9 million in 2018 will mainly be directed towards basic funding for research institutions. Thus, a long step closer to the government's objective of achieving a balance between basic funding and competitive research grants has been taken. This will provide researchers with greater stability and freedom to choose their research topics according to society's needs. From 2018, doctoral student grants will grow considerably. To this end, an additional amount of EUR 5 million was allocated per year. This is a flagship decision, which was expected for years and which clearly contributes to the growth of the scientific community and the quality of science in the long term. I'd like to keep this course going. With additional funding, we support company product development activities in order to mitigate the high risks it poses. This is certainly the direction that we will try to tackle more vigorously in the future, as we have also confirmed in the coalition agreement with the three parties. Last year, the incorporation of university-business cooperation agreements into the basic university funding model was changed. This confirms that we particularly value business cooperation and encourage research groups and institutes to work more actively on it. In 2017, an action to support applied research in areas of smart specialisation growth with a total volume of 26.6 million euros over seven years will be implemented more vigorously. In doing so, we will contribute to applied research and product development in the interests of businesses in research institutions. As a new activity, we will further invest around 3 million euros per year in ICT R &amp; D in universities. ICT has a huge potential to accelerate economic development, but to achieve this it is necessary to ensure a high level of research in the field and to increase the preparation of top specialists. In order to better realise the potential of information and communication technology, we gave additional impetus to the digitalisation of Estonian industry. Our aim is to make up for the serious backwards in this area and to increase the added value created by businesses. So far, the industrial sector in general has not reaped much from Estonia's information and communication technology capabilities. For example, in the Digital Agenda for Europe, Estonia is very well placed in public digital services, in the categories of Internet use and human capital, but clearly lagging behind in digitalising entrepreneurship. The World Economic Forum and McKinsey have identified the legal space for artificial intelligence and its cyber defence as the main obstacles to the launch of the next industrial revolution. I am therefore particularly pleased to mention that we have started to unravel these topics in Estonia. The legal analysis launched in September last year by the Expert Group on Self-Driving Vehicles suggests four ways in which robots, or 'crats', are defined and how responsibility could be resolved in different cases. This year, an expert group will be working specifically on future developments in the subject of artificial intelligence. The cybersecurity of equipment around us is a key obstacle to the development of artificial intelligence and the Internet of Things. It is important that the creation of Estonian scientists also reach practical application. A good example here is some of our companies, such as Cybernetica and Guardtime. In order to open new doors to entrepreneurs, we have started preparations for Estonia's accession to the European Nuclear Research Centre (CERN), which was supported by the Scientific and Development Council in March 2017. Membership will provide our companies with better opportunities to participate in the Centre's procurement and access to engineering information there. If I may remind you, this year's state budget has EUR 1.4 million for the accession process. Members of the Riigikogu! Greater use of research potential in national decision-making is also important for Estonia's development. The R &amp; D Organisation Act says that each ministry undertook just every ministry duty! It is necessary to organise R &amp; D and its funding in the area of its governance. Unfortunately, there is still a narrow institutional approach in this area and the mentality of tearing the blanket off each other. Especially when it comes to sharing resources. The launch of a network of scientific advisors working in ministries could have taken place years ago. Reverend Riigikogu, why did we only get to this in recent years? Through RITA, a sectoral R &amp; D strengthening programme, the state participates in strategic direction and prioritisation of research. The involvement of science in policy-making should not be an exception, but a rule. Through the RITA measure, we will allocate a total of approximately EUR 28 million over seven years to this objective. The R &amp; D Council has increased its role in supporting sectoral R &amp; D and this development must certainly continue. As regards the RITA support measure, TAN has proposed its views and preferences on the sectoral research topics that are relevant to Estonia's development. The understanding that we are dependent on the results of science must be spread more widely, both among the officials and among members of society as a whole. This is especially important in the present era of truth or truthless. The Estonian Research Council deals with different generations for this purpose, adding new activities every year. The 'Centre of Excellence of Curiosity' programme launched last year through national broadcasting is a very successful example of its rating in competition with popular entertainment programmes. Let it be said that the audience of the first show was nearly 100,000 people. The PÖFF research film programme, which widened the minds of more than 2000 viewers, also contributed to success. More students participated in the national competition for student in 2017 than ever before. Young people's ideas were admirably practical and solving problems in society. For example, a flashing cross - road hat that helps children survive in traffic. One of the most outstanding student inventors' projects has been the Taxify online platform introduced in 2013, which has spread to more than 20 countries. The works of Estonians are also noticed by the wider international community. The video based on the research by academicist Hillar Aben was one of the most viewed science videos on Facebook last year and was among the most popular videos of Science in 2017. On 1 September last year, on the day of knowledge, the first cover of the prestigious scientific journal Science, Professor of Plant Physiologist at the Estonian University of Life Sciences, Ülo Niinemetsa, published an article on the reasons for the variation in the size of plant leaves. Introducing and highlighting the wider social impact of science was also one of our priorities during the Estonian Presidency of the European Union. Work to ensure that taxpayers understand the importance of research funding for the development of society as a whole is crucial. In addition, the countries of the European Union, led by Estonia, agreed on the principles of the next framework programme for research and innovation. Horizon 2020 was found to work well, but the next programme needs to be even more ambitious in terms of both budget and activities. In order to create better conditions for the participation of researchers, the Estonian Presidency carried the discussions on making the financing system more coherent and open. In the framework of the presidency, the 'Tallinn Call for Action 2017' was also born, which calls for increased research funding and supports the negotiations of the next budget period of the European Union. The document has received quite a wide-ranging response in a rather short period of time. Very Honourable Riigikogu! We constantly think about how R &amp; D can be encouraged and its positive effects opened up. The R &amp; D Council's recommendation is to commission an evaluation of the Estonian research and innovation system. We would like a comprehensive and impartial overview of our current situation and practical recommendations for further development of the system in the next planning period. In addition to European experts, experts from the United States, such as the Stanford Research Institute, will be involved as evaluators. I had the honour of visiting this facility personally last year. We need outstanding ideas to take Estonia's life forward in a technology-rich information society. That's how I see the changing world around us. The results of the Task Force on financing and organising research and higher education in spring will certainly influence the next policy decisions in the field of R &amp; D. Consolidation of research institutions that have provided a great deal of talk must be continued in Estonia with a view to the quality of research. The Task Force has proposed more general criteria for taking consolidation decisions, while considering that each merger still needs to be analysed and considered as a case-by-case case. In addition, the Task Force has analysed and is proposing concrete funding for the research system. The focus is primarily on improving the use of money and achieving the desired results. I hope that the task force's work will bring about the changes that we have been talking about for years, but which have not been fully analysed or decided. Estonia needs changes, and the government wants to drag them forward and push them. We will continue to create better working conditions for people working on the development of knowledge, ideas and solutions that take Estonia forward. The increase in basic funding will provide researchers with greater confidence in planning their academic careers and give greater freedom to deal with topics that create value for Estonia. But it also places new demands on researchers and greater social responsibility in choosing their research topics. On the other hand, the message they expect from scientists from the state and businesses must also be clearer, more concrete. This message does not come about by itself, and here the state can take the lead and, in cooperation with the private sector, set clearer priorities that will take us forward. Thirdly, a wider uptake of new knowledge requires a change in attitudes and values. A knowledge-based society means the ability to recognise, adapt and adopt new knowledge. We therefore need to become smarter, smarter and more creative ourselves, stepping out of the comfort zone and not content with mediocrity. It can only be born together: by assessing and using the knowledge that exists in our country. Last year, a respected member of the Riigikogu, Krista Aru, expressed his figurative opinion in this hall that Estonian society and Estonian science have grown apart. Our aim is still to encourage them to grow together, to take account of each other, to support each other and to share objectives. Then the unattainable goals will also become available. Thank you for listening, honourable Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U221	I will open a round of questions and remind you that every member of the Riigikogu has the opportunity to ask an oral question during the processing of this item. Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U222	Mr President! Prime Minister! It seems to me that we live in different ages. You were talking about the truth here, and I'd like to find out the truth about your report. We are talking about a third page on funding. I have this feeling that there's been a mix-up of two data in one of these paragraphs. One is the share of R &amp; D in GDP as a whole and the other is the public contribution to it. You are pointing out that in 2016, there was a drop in the European Union's resources. I have a feeling that, when it comes to the public sector, wasn't there a decline in 2017 as well? You are told here that in 2017, these amounts amounted to 0.78% of GDP, a talk about the public sector, an expected figure of 0.81% next year. Question: how much was this share in 2016 and what has your government been doing?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U223	Thank you. In 2016, this government started, if my memory doesn't deceive me, on 23 November. I've got the chart on that. When we talk first, point one, only about public spending on R &amp; D contributions, these percentages are, as you said, really 0.78% of GDP in 2017 and we are forecasting 0.81% by 2018. But neither of these are the final percentages, because we do not yet know about economic growth in the fourth quarter of 2017, not to mention 2018. In 2016, for which you asked, this figure was 0.61%, as far as I know.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U224	Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U225	Good Prime Minister! The need for better cooperation between people and businesses in the field of research has been mentioned for years. As Prime Minister, how does it seem to you that one possible solution could be that the state is channelling certain sums of money to universities to finance research through entrepreneurship? In this case, companies would be more able to tell what specialists and research they need from universities in particular, while people working in universities would see that their work can be used in real life.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U226	Thank you for your question. First of all, this general objective, which I mentioned when talking about funding science, is really that we can change the proportion of basic funding and project funding. We hope to get closer to a balance, or 50: 50. This year we can say that this ratio is 40 to 60. So the goal is not yet here. But your question is, I think, such a fundamental question. This is actually a question of how the state can encourage cooperation between research institutions and businesses. We see this cooperation on both sides. We are now saying that our problem is why the business sector is contributing, as I said in my speech, 0.69% and not 2%. If you don't mind, I'll give you some examples. First of all, which I believe are important initiatives. One is that in 2016, an action has been launched to support applied research in the fields of research and business cooperation and smart specialisation growth. Its total volume has been EUR 26,6 million and will certainly contribute to applied research and product development in the interests of businesses in research institutions. Secondly, I would like to mention the innovative solution from the time of this government that we have increased the share of business contracts in the basic financing formula. This is certainly not the final solution, but it is, in my opinion, a step in the right direction. Tendency is right. What does that mean? This means understanding that the more research institutions have benefited from cooperation with entrepreneurship or the business sector, the more basic public science funding is available to them. It is such a motivational package. In combination with the increase in basic funding, it will provide researchers with more motivation and certainly more opportunities to cooperate with entrepreneurs. Thirdly, the institutional development programme ASTRA, i.e. the strategic development programme of universities and research institutions, supports the state by carrying out structural changes and developing areas of responsibility. The total volume of the development programme is 121.5 million euros and consists of ASTRA's investment plan, which is just over 54 million euros, and ASTRA's grants for the development of university and research institutions, which is 67.4 million euros. For example, the ADAPTER platform for joint cooperation between universities has been supported under the ASTRA measure. In addition, I would like to point out that a number of measures have been launched in EAS to encourage cooperation between companies and researchers with large budgets, there are clusters of technology development centres, a measure to support innovative public procurement and innovation and development shares. The new solution in 2018 is that, from this year onwards, we will support, in addition to the state budget, a true, very small amount, with 1 million euros a year for companies' product development activities, in particular to mitigate the major risks involved. This is certainly an area that we will try to tackle more vigorously in the future, as we have actually recorded in the coalition agreement. I will also mention the principle of our open doors, which I spoke about in my presentation. I think that our future accession to the European Space Agency and, in the near future, to the European Nuclear Research Centre is also a measure of entrepreneurship, science and cooperation between the state. So these are some examples.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U227	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U228	Thank you, manager. Prime Minister! In the world, countries are compared according to a wide range of statistical indicators. Indeed, one striking reference number is the total R &amp; D expenditure in relation to GDP. But there is another reference number which has recently been particularly highlighted: this is an increase in the amount that is invested in R &amp; D every year. Over the last decade, Asian countries have been taking the lead in this area, including Japan, South Korea and, in particular, China, where growth is even a few times higher than in European countries. Competition is known to take life forward, and although the scales in Estonia are quite different from those in Asian countries, I ask what Estonia has to learn from, for example, South Korea, whose economic success is precisely due to production-oriented research and development, or China, whose contribution to R &amp; D is increasing in a consistent way. I also wonder if you have any examples of such successful countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U229	Thank you. As regards the contribution of companies to R &amp; D, as I said, these investments are actually very risky. They are very long-term and are very expensive. This is the main reason why we see that entrepreneurship takes on too little R &amp; D expenditure. He could bet more on it. Your grip is very wide, you were talking about South Korea and China. If you will allow me, I will come back to Estonia with my answer. Since 2015, we are seeing a small, small increase. While in 2015 we had 225 companies contributing to R &amp; D, in 2016 a little more than 257 companies. However, we must and must make some changes to the low level of private sector activity in the field of research and development; businesses must be motivated in some way. We have been discussing in TAN how to reduce the so-called bureaucracy of these companies when they show their data in statistics. There should be less bureaucracy. But actually, I think the key issue is how the public sector can motivate and guarantee these risky and expensive investments in some way. This debate could certainly be wider. We certainly want to involve, as I said, experts from Europe, but also from outside Europe, in the evaluation of the R &amp; D and innovation system. I cannot tell you where these experts come from right now, but surely you should not exclude the countries or continent you mentioned. It is worth learning from their experience. It is worth exploring Asian experiences more widely. It is worth looking at Singapore's experience, South Korean experience, Chinese experience, as you said. And our experts have done it. Taking something directly over to one is perhaps difficult. When you asked if there was one example we would like to take as a template, I don't think there is one. Oh, that was a question personal to me? I do not think I have such an example personally. What really is the key point right now? I remember this debate last year, and I also remember answering certain questions during this year. I have said that I think this debate should be held before the next Riigikogu elections. Then we should discuss how to motivate companies to spend more on R &amp; D. This would not only be a very interesting but also a very necessary debate before the next Riigikogu elections. We need some kind of coherent approach, political consensus between the various political parties.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U230	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U231	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good Prime Minister! I am dealing with doctoral grants because the number of doctoral students also shows in a certain way our willingness to invest in science and its development. Yes, a small increase in doctoral grant is foreseen in this year's budget. However, the fact is that this does not guarantee that one hundred percent of PhD students will be able to devote themselves to teaching and research. They still have to do it along with the main job, and that means that the study period often stretches without knowing and makes it even more expensive for the country to teach them. Can you introduce your government's plans for the next and next year? Is the doctoral student allowance at the same level or is it planned to increase it? What volumes can we talk about?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U232	Thank you. As I said, this year the government coalition has made it a separate priority. And not only in principle and in words, it is also a real money deposit. In 2018, the additional amount will be EUR 5 million. I fully agree with you that the grant must allow the doctoral student to work only in a research institution. Certainly the current amount does not allow this, most likely to be done with a doctorate in addition to a research institution or private sector. What are the plans for the future? It is stated in the country's budget strategy that doctoral student grants will also grow in 2019 and 2020. What exactly is this amount going to be? Certainly this amount is at least plus 5 million each year, but if this can be changed during the discussions on the country's budget strategy and the budget allows it to be considered, then it must be considered. However, I think it is very positive that we can talk at all now about increasing doctoral student support. I think that 5 million is not a small amount, as we sometimes wish to claim here in Estonia. I would even dare say it's more of a record rise. This is a significant increase that has not been made before. And in addition to doctoral student support, we must not forget scholarships. Doctoral students can also apply for scholarships that usually have specific objectives. Students will be motivated to study in priority areas. For example, scholarships in the field of smart specialisation will certainly motivate young people to complete their studies successfully in the chosen field of study with full-time and nominal time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U233	Please, Anne Sulling!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U234	Good President! Good Prime Minister! In your speech, you also mentioned the plan to involve an expert from Stanford Research Institute, which you visited, to evaluate the Estonian research and innovation system. A month and a half ago, I organised an innovation conference in cooperation with the Centre for Development of the Riigikogu, where the same long-term manager of the innovation centre of the Stanford Research Institute appeared. No one from your party had come to hear him. He made one assessment of our research and innovation system: namely that the Estonian government is spending less on R &amp; D than its own capabilities. He estimated that Estonia could double its R &amp; D expenditure. Do you intend to take into account the evaluation of this honorable expert at the Stanford Research Institute when planning the budget for next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U235	Dear Anne Sulling! I thank you very much for this question and for this juicy jacket that there were no people from the Centre Party present. I also belong to this party, if it is important to note this now, however, I do not think it is very important. But when we made a visit to the U.S. by doing business as I say, I wanted to go to the SRI, listen to them and try to find ways of their cooperation with Estonia. After this conference, we have talked to those who spoke there, and we have also asked this person to be one expert or one assessor. I'm not familiar with the current situation to the point of detail, but as far as I know, he's given his initial consent. Now for your question. You referred to his claim that Estonia could increase R &amp; D spending twice and asked whether we had planned to do so. It can always be very political and to blame for why this has not been done. Well, in Estonia there is no government and prime minister for the first time in 2017 and 2018. They have been in power for a very long time and other parties have also been in power. As I said in my speech, we have not withdrawn from the 1% target, but if you are talking about doubling the funding, that should mean a public contribution of about 1.6% of GDP. Taking next year as a basis and saying that in 2019 the public contribution to R &amp; D could be 1% of GDP, this will amount to approximately EUR 75 million. This is a very large amount for the Estonian state's budget. Basically, of course, I support us reaching that 1%. If you ask me if you could double the current amount, this is an even more ambitious target. If, however, this capacity is created by the state, then of course. At the moment, the government and I have proposed an increase of 0.03% in this budget to the Riigikogu. It's about 15 million in money, 14.9 million in particular, and I think it's still a positive trend. In the budget for next year, do I intend to reduce this amount? No, no reduction is not planned. Would I like to increase it? Yeah, I'd like to increase it. What is our capacity, what is the real situation, but this will be revealed at the end of this summer and in September when the government has the last discussions on the state budget for next year. And, of course, it is the Riigikogu that decides the budget once and for all. But yes, we can't double that money, but we can keep the tendency that these sums are going up. That must definitely be done.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U236	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U237	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! You said that Estonia's research organisation, research institutions and research system would be faced with a new higher international evaluation. What are the specific objectives of this next evaluation? As we know, the Estonian research system as a whole is constantly targeted, and our research directions are assessed. We have had plenty of assessments, including internationally renowned experts. Why is a new major assessment now being carried out?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U238	Thank you for this very important question. We must take into account that the end of this planning period will come in 2020. In about three years, some projects go on, but that's the way it is. I said that the new situation is difficult to assess now in terms of the number of euros, but it can be said with certainty that the European Union's funding is changing towards a reduction throughout the Community, namely Brexit, due to Britain's departure. In addition to that, our own lifespan, I hope, heals. Now, on the subject of this evaluation, I repeat: indeed, the end of this planning period is approaching, a new period is beginning, which is already being prepared. Before setting new targets, it is necessary to summarise what has been achieved so far: what has been done well, what has been done badly, analysed, what has succeeded, and what is still, if I may say so, the biggest bottlenecks in the system, which need to be addressed more or more in a new way in the new period. In recent years, most of Estonia's own researchers have analysed the R&D&I system. In many ways, these analyses have given us the information we need, but it has been found that there is a lack of such a way to say, a fresh objective side view. In addition to the overall assessment, practical concrete proposals are expected in particular. Work is ordered from the European Commission. We've also discussed where to order this job in the TAN. In the case of the European Commission, the costs will be considerably lower if they were for another international organisation. HTM develops a detailed initial task, the work is ordered in cooperation with MKM and the State Chancellery.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U239	Raivo Põldaru.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U240	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Good Prime Minister! How do you assess the situation where young scientists, doctors have defended their work and finished their studies, but are forced to leave Estonia because they simply cannot find an application here? Can you see the problem and how to deal with the situation so they can still find a job here? Do you have any ideas about that?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U241	Thank you. I certainly consider this situation to be problematic and challenging. We are really losing good scientists who are leaving Estonia and are not coming back here. They should always have that chance. On the one hand, there's nothing you can do to stop them. Science is cross-border, at least to a large extent. At the beginning of my presentation, I said that it is nice that some scientists have returned to Estonia after doing science abroad. But there are not many examples. I also said that scientists would rather come back when contacts in their home countries have survived, which will certainly help. At the same time, I dare say that leaving Estonia is not always bad; international experience is certainly good. But in any case, return must be encouraged. What can be done? I think the same things that have already been mentioned are necessary. On the one hand, point 1: R &amp; D expenditure must be increased. Item 2: Project grants and basic funding must be more balanced. We are actually motivating the achievement of the objective on which Mr Viktoria asked: how to increase the joint role of entrepreneurship and university activities. I think it is difficult to give one answer here, but these are activities that should motivate a scientist working abroad to think that it may be worth returning to Estonia at some point.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U242	Please, Yoko Alender!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U243	Thank you, good manager. Prime Minister! I'm gonna keep going a little bit on a similar subject. In the problem committee on the resolution of the population crisis, we have also dealt with a topic such as science in Estonian and its sustainability. Internationalisation is certainly a positive phenomenon in science and higher education, but it should also be balanced by enabling research in its own language. What are these measures, the activities that the government is working to promote research in Estonian at different levels?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U244	Thank you. I don't know if this question was really about what's called national science. I remember that last year Krista Aru raised this issue very actively. If my memory doesn't fool me, Professor Aadu Black also spoke of the importance of national sciences. You asked about concrete measures. I think, in general, that the state of national science is good and that it has certainly improved in recent years. Why do I think that? Several new initiatives or projects have been launched. For example, the Estonian Research Excellence Centre started work in 2017. This is one of the most outstanding activities in national science in recent years. Secondly, the state supports the national professorship at the University of Tartu. The amount is 1.2 million euros per year and supports a total of 10 professorships, including Estonian language and culture, Estonian history and other such fields. Both studies and research will be supported. Thirdly, in answer to your question, we have had a lot of talk here about our desire to achieve a balance in terms of funding of 50: 50, but at the moment, the state will allocate an additional 5% of basic funding to support national science. What does this 5% basic funding mean in 2018? This amounts to EUR 1,3 million. Fourthly, the Ministry of Education and Research has also increased the funding of the Institute of the Estonian Language and the Estonian Literary Museum in recent years. In reply to your question, I note that the Ministry of Education and Research is preparing a follow-up programme for research related to Estonian language technology. The aim is for language technology applications to be increasingly used in the provision of different services. What can we refer to here? Well, for example, translation systems, speech recognition. To be very specific, around 0.8 million euros per year will be allocated here. HTM also implements the national research programme "Estonian language and cultural memory," which amounts to approximately 0.5 million euros a year. Two doctoral schools are active in the field of humanities and also in the field of arts: a doctoral school for cultural sciences and arts and a doctoral school for linguistics, philosophy and semiotics. The state also supports the construction of the new study building of the Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre and the construction of a new hall. That is a brief answer to your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U245	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U246	Thank you, President-in-Office. Prime Minister! You stressed in your review that every ministry has a duty to involve researchers in its own field in policy-making. Today we adopted, by a narrow majority, amendments to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act in this Chamber of the Riigikogu, concerning the financing and organisation of inclusive education. As far as I am aware, this bill was sent to scientists just before the discussion of this first reading was already held in the Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu. When do you think we'll be able to get to the point where the ministries are consulting scientists in the field when a concept is being developed, how and what to change?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U247	Thank you. I understand that the Prime Minister may have to be familiar with the working processes of all the permanent committees, but that is hardly what you have in mind with your question. I'm gonna start with what I brought up in my speech. I do not take this matter lightly at all. I threw a rhetorical question into the air in my speech as to why we did not reach it in recent years. Before this rhetorical question, it was said that the launch of a network of scientific advisors working in the Ministry could have been much more active and could have happened much earlier. I'm glad this job's been kicking in lately. True, it has not quite been completed, there is still a few countries to go: as far as I know, there are eight scientific advisors in office today. But yes, as the representative of the executive, I am absolutely convinced that when we talk about the Committee on Culture, the chairman of the Committee on Culture and other professional members of the Committee on Culture do their work very seriously and very professionally. It has been an honor to walk before you. I think you're all prepared to include as many external experts as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U248	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U249	Thank you. In 2016, the government decided to set up a Task Force on the financing and organisation of higher education and research with the task of preparing the consolidation of higher education and research institutions and their support services and the implementation of recommendations on the financing of research and higher education. These include representatives of ministries, universities and the Academy of Sciences, for example, and the Task Force will have to submit its final report by the first quarter of 2018, so soon. How far have they come in their work? What proposals have they put forward so far? Will the final report be completed in due course? And does the government intend to take their proposals into account?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U250	Thank you. Good member of the Riigikogu! I wonder how we can expect the results of the task force's work before the end of a certain period, how can we ask now: 'So, how about this? ' You know very well when the task force will finish its work. I repeat: as you said, the report will be completed in the first quarter of 2018. I know that the work has been very active and I am sure the summary will be ready in time. You have rightly pointed out whose representatives belong to the task force. However, some institutions and associations were not mentioned and so that no one would feel affected, I will read more about the honourable Riigikogu, whose representatives belong to the task force: the Academy of Sciences, the Rectors' Council, the Estonian Student Association, the Service Economy Chamber, the Estonian Chamber of Agriculture and Commerce, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the Ministry of Education and Research. The initial deadline for the submission of the Task Force's proposals was slightly earlier, but it is really agreed that this will be the first quarter of 2018. If you ask me if the job will be finished by then, I'll know it's done. And there is certainly a desire to take these proposals into account. That's what the task force is called to do, not to do the job, but nobody cares about the suggestions. The Task Force's work started in August 2016. The main objective is to propose to the government the long-term financing of research and higher education and the consolidation of support services for universities and research institutions. I wish the task force leader Katrin Pihor strength! He is well committed to his work, and I am convinced that once the task force's work has been completed, the government will take these proposals very seriously. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U251	Prime Minister, thank you for answering the questions. No further questions for you right now. I'm opening negotiations. The representatives of the political groups will take the floor in this round. Please, Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U252	Honourable Riigikogu! The Prime Minister's overview of the state of R &amp; D and of the implementation of the 2014-20 innovation strategy is very important. Science and education are areas without which development is impossible and the future is dark, but we want a better future. In this context, let me highlight a few points from the thoughts of the IRL Group on these issues. First. It is clear that the development of science and the targeting of the resources needed in this area must be a national priority. It is also clear that the current amounts that are going to be developed in this area are not sufficient. The aim should be to reach at least 1% of GDP in terms of research expenditure. Second. Cooperation between people and businesses in the field of science is important, which is spoken about quite a lot in recent years. Collaboration between science and entrepreneurship is responsible for the development of science and for the wider reach of entrepreneurship, as well as for the business model that takes into account the needs of society. That's right! It's a symbiotic connection. Cooperation is needed on both sides. In the initial phase, it is more like science that needs this cooperation, but in the long run, it is the company that will win the last word of science as a result of good cooperation. Its competitiveness and benefits are greater. Here we should think about the following idea: are we ready to create a system through which a certain part of public money can reach universities through business? In this case, companies would be able to formulate more precisely which direction they consider to be more important in the field of research using instruments of money. However, universities could better provide just what the country needs. There are many details in this proposal, but the idea, as such, would need to be discussed, because it seems to be of wider use. Three. I am pleased that the government has increased doctoral student support by more than 50% this year, and it is certainly our wish to continue to raise it. Sometimes it makes sense to have a PhD in every person's personal interest, but I don't share that kind of thinking. I think that the more people in our country feel that they can afford to do science, the smarter and more successful our country will be. The confidence of doctoral students is also an international interest of countries in the world. Last but not least, the popularization of science, a very important and interesting subject. In the last days of October, the Academy of Sciences held a competition called Science in 3 minutes. This is a necessary and interesting competition, where a young scientist needs to explain in a brief and understandable language why his research is necessary for society. The undertaking serves two purposes. On the one hand, a scientist must speak attractively and clearly about complex scientific matters. On the other hand, an audience to whom an area may be foreign will know why one or the other science is important. Such events unite the scientific community with the rest of society. The aim is for science to be involved in everyday life and to reflect society. In order for the mirror to reflect something good, it must have a good tone, a confident and content face before it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U253	Please, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of Barbi Pilvre.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U254	Good President! Prime Minister! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Colleagues from the academy who, I hope, listened to the presentation of the Prime Minister on the Internet! First of all, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his important theme-settings in the field of research, development and innovation policy. Social Democrats have still assessed the governance of a knowledge-based society. Many intellectuals, including the people of universities and researchers, are among the advocates of the social democratic worldview. The passionate will to learn more about the world, curiosity, willingness to test, doubt in final truths, intellectual preference for practicality, as well as a certain distance of life, and utopism are the basis of science as a field of life, but also the thinking of Estonian social democrats. Let this be said as a mild self-critic. Science is financed mainly from public funds in Estonia. Research results are not always immediately convertible into the general good of society. They can only be operational in decades' time or not at all, and they will remain fundamental knowledge that will simply broaden our understanding of the world. It is ideal if some useful new innovative solutions, ways of doing things, applications, even equipment, are developed in collaboration between scientists and businesses. Science is resource-intensive and, in order to have money for research, financial value must be created elsewhere in business and reallocated. There is a need for a societal consensus that the public funds earned in business will provide research that can support innovation, both technical and social innovation, but may also prove unimplementable for new knowledge. Estonia has developed a high level of R &amp; D and the state makes a significant contribution to maintaining and increasing this level. However, a very important part of the money comes into Estonian science from European Union funds. This must not be forgotten. Science life is international and in some ways it is normal for Estonian researchers to compete successfully in order to benefit from international funding opportunities. On the other hand, dependence on foreign project funds creates uncertainty and the huge bureaucracy that goes along with applying for money eats the time and energy that scientists can use to carry out more basic work. It has been said that the Estonian science assessment system is based on the natural sciences evaluation model. Therefore, knowledge in social sciences and humanities is not always adequately assessed with physics, chemistry, and instruments suitable for medicine. However, the new knowledge created in the humanities and social sciences enables us to have reflexes and such knowledge often becomes valuable only in time, cumulative. The value of such knowledge can only be understood when they are no longer produced over a longer period of time, if we are to cope only with the latest knowledge, such as that acquired in the last five years, in a particular field, such as some science. It is logical to imagine that all books of fiction older than five years will become inaccessible. In such an imaginary situation, we would at some point understand that society around us is very stupid. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U255	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U256	While it is difficult to get the new knowledge needed for reflection in the humanitarian and social fields, the lack of understanding of the emerging world can suddenly be felt in several areas of life at once, creating a so-called chamber tone in society. This is a pretty appalling situation. It is not impossible that such a society with reflexive disabilities may, for example, be highly technologically advanced, but the limitations are evident, for example, from what technology is used for or how its impact is understood. In Estonia, when considering the relationship between science and society, the consensus is often reached that the innovative idea, if it is financed from public resources, should become more common practice from science and should be applicable to the benefit of the Estonian economy. To this end, cooperation between science and the private sector will be encouraged and there will be a plan to link the basic funding of research institutions in the future with the capacity to cooperate with the private sector. This formula, to say the least, does not favour social and humanitarian scientists working with the public sector, such as ministries. The creation of public value is not appreciated by this formula, and that is the wrong attitude. Cooperation between science and the private sector is to be welcomed and Estonian entrepreneurship could become more knowledge-based, but cooperation between scientists and the public sector must also be assessed. Universities experts could be involved in developing policies in ministries and other bodies, but this does not have a direct impact on the economy. The basic funding for social sciences and humanities should not depend on cooperation with the private sector. The improvement in the funding of doctoral students should be recognised as a positive trend. I also know that the scientific community also highly appreciates the channelling of public money into the funding of post-doctoral studies. This allows a successful research career, facilitates the entry of young researchers into the academic labour market and prevents Estonian universities from frogging, as post-doctoral studies are generally not done at the same university where the doctoral degree was defended. I would also like to mention the communication between the scientific world and society. On the one hand, it can be accepted that Estonian science mostly lives in the parallel world in English and does not interact with the surrounding Estonian society. Science is international and must be internationally competitive. However, science must be constantly popularised so that for the general public, science is not an incomprehensible and even odd field, as sometimes the media appear to be. The popularization of real science is progressing well. For example, national broadcasting is doing a very good job with its programme "Rocket 69' and the science portal, the "Labor' on the Rainbow Radio. Humanities and social scientists may be used as experts in some discussion programmes. But why, for example, couldn't social science thinking be introduced to young people in a format that suits them, in a competitive discussion show that discusses academic style, using scientific arguments, as is the case in universities or schools? Some schools practice scientific thinking successfully in primary schools, where children not only study nature but also do research on human behavior and societal phenomena. That would be the point of national broadcasting. Fortunately, we have popular scientific articles in Sirbis, Academy and Rainbow, which are said to be included in the assessment of the qualifications of scholars in some research institutions. At the same time, the scientific knowledge of society reaches politicians and other decision-makers at random, through some expert opinion, or through a popular portal in a simplified form. It is a good thing that a think tank called the Development Monitoring Centre has started working at the Riigikogu, which seeks to include the most important new knowledge about what is happening in society. The publication of the Development Monitoring Centre The Long-Eye also reached the Members' desks before Christmas. In the view of the Socialists, in the light of the R &amp; D strategy, attention should also be paid to the salaries of university teachers, which are now rising as a result of the increase in the tax-free minimum and the structural reforms of universities. The post-growth of researchers depends on the teaching staff, but without researchers, there are no R &amp; D plans and innovation strategies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U257	On behalf of the Group of the Centre Party, Aadu Black speaks.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U258	Good manager! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, One good method of comparison is a historical-comparative method. If you don't compare yourself to someone, you won't know where you are in your development. In this sense, Mr. Prime Minister's speech was very sympathetic that we were viewed in an international context, where we are sitting in the international world of science. Indeed, there are many things to be proud of here. If you compare our GDP per capita to that of others, you can enjoy it. Of course, however, it must be taken into account that this is the result of several generations of consistent work. In recent years, I have been very happy to meet a great many scientists from other countries. I have used a variety of possibilities to do so, and last year the Riigikogu's work was free of charge with many trips and meetings. I can say that Estonian scientists have, as a rule, been viewed in previous years as enjoyable passengers, courteous, well-grown, respectful partners. This year there was a very sympathetic change from a scientific point of view, against which I appreciate the success of our Presidency year. Namely, the same 'Tallinn Call for Action' or 'The Tallinn Call for Action' was one of the proofs that colleagues discovered that Estonians can take their thoughts and good ideas to the wider world. It is very sympathetic that a number of research organisations have already recognised the same 'Tallinn Call' and confirmed that this is one basis for planning their future work. One point that we do not usually matter, or even know how to take it at all, is the Eastern Partnership in research. The European Commission has stressed that the Eastern Partnership is a piece of work in which Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania are considered particularly capable. We do not always have to have these research works translated in every sense, including mentality and the search for a common spirit. And we'll make better contact in the east than the others. This means, on the one hand, also a mission to enable former destinies, capable scientists from Eastern Partnership countries, to reach a high level of science. On the other hand, from a European point of view, however, it is about involving a valuable and qualified research force. You can't forget that, either. One of the moments that the Prime Minister touched in his speech is the scientific evaluation. I dare say that, in recent years, there have been problems across Europe that democratic parliaments, not to mention ordinary taxpayers, do not always understand who needs science and what it is. Maybe scientists live in an ivory tower somewhere, doing science, maybe doing their hobby at the expense of the taxpayer. The European Commission has made it very clear that one of the central objectives is to re-establish trust. The Prime Minister also noted that the Estonian taxpayer must also know what is being done with his money, exactly the same problem. We are in sync with the rest of the world: Europe has the same problem and maybe it is even more serious than we do. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the European Commission has recommended that national parliaments and governments share some of the research money, if you would like, in a referendum, so that the public, the taxpayer, can say what research direction it needs in particular. Well, simply translated: it is necessary for Members who otherwise say that they are in favour of research and development to remember these promises even when the budget is being discussed. Unfortunately, the opposite has happened in previous years. Everyone has said that oh, as a good R &amp; D report, but... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U259	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U260	I once quoted these same promises in the budget negotiations and received a judgmental assessment: where do you take the money from?? The popularization of science is very important. And in addition to the points that the Prime Minister went through here, of course, not everything can be read out, I was very impressed by the European Union's competition of young scientists in Tallinn in September 2017, for which our partners from other countries very much praised us. There were people from all over the European Union and there were people from Japan, the United States, Taiwan. Previous student science festivals have been a good training for this event. This year, the event had nearly 2,000 guests, and the prizes had, fortunately, been presented not only by the organisers, but also by 35 organisations, carriers of the work in this direction. The leader, Terje Tuisk, has done a tremendous amount of work. I'm not talking about Rocket anymore, it's already been called by a number of people. Perhaps the academy should also be praised for setting up a youth academy because it has created positive tension and attention. Now, one more thing to mention. The European Commission has given great importance to what I was so happy to hear from the Prime Minister's speech: research and development should not be taken too narrowly or, as has been expressed here, technocratically. We have a lot of technocracy in the first place. We have never been trained in such a way that many even think that accounting rules are more important than the law adopted by Parliament. At least we sometimes have reasons why we cannot pass some laws: in this case, accounting becomes difficult. But Europe stresses that humanitarian and social scientists must be involved in exploring a wide range of topics: migration processes, communication problems, national identity, even climate change. We are talking about global warming recently, and sometimes we forget that waiting-wait-wait, even bigger and more global warming was a long time ago. At the beginning of the last millennium, Greenland was called Grönland because it was very green. Such benchmarks are very much needed. I think that one test in our research and development, in cooperation with scientists and entrepreneurs, will be a solution to the very well-known cellulose problem for the Tartu people. Why do I call it that? In particular, because this topic was raised at our last meeting by Rector Volli Kalm of the University of Tartu, who was deeply insulted by the attempt of the universities to play against each other. On this subject, our scientists are certainly conducting brilliant research on this subject, and both Tarmo Soomere and Volli Kalm have spoken about it. So here I'm going to do three points. In the Committee on Culture, we can probably talk about all this further, as well as the large public debate organised by the Tartu City Council, which will soon come. Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister, for a very encouraging presentation. The Tallinn Call for Action states that it is important to invest more strongly in science. I hope it's a final assessment! That this time our calls and the decisions adopted in our capital city will also be implemented in Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U261	The thoughts of the Reform Party Group will be brought to you by Anne Sulling. Please! Eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U262	Good Riigikogu! In January last year, when giving an overview of the state of R &amp; D in the very top of the Riigikogu, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas stated that the aim of the coalition is to increase the share of R &amp; D expenditure made by the state to 1% of GDP. But already three months later, the R &amp; D Council, led by him, decided to keep R &amp; D spending over the next four years at a level of around 0.8% of GDP in 2017. It seems intrusive, but it is just one of the many times in the last year, where we have heard the Prime Minister say one thing, but seen it do something completely different. The objective of contributing 1% of GDP to research and development was formulated by the Riigikogu in 2014 when it adopted the Estonian strategy for research and development and innovation entitled 'Knowledge-based Estonia'. Estonia cannot afford to spend so little on R &amp; D if it wants to move from middle income to higher income countries. Our northern neighbour, Finland, has recently set the target of raising the R &amp; D expenditure rate to 4% of GDP, of which the government's share is a third. That is a very clear message. In order to compete on the world market in the league of knowledge-based economies, we should think in the same direction. It is worth recognising that, despite a small budget, Estonian scientists have been able to do such a good job that they are one of the most quoted authors in prestigious scientific journals. Good achievements in research are very important, but Estonia's big problem is that we have not been successful in converting scientific achievements into economic value. Recently, the OECD published in its science, technology and industry performance table that in Estonia the percentage of companies placing innovative products on the market is the lowest in comparison with OECD countries, in terms of industrial companies, service companies and manufacturing companies. This is not just a statistical number, it confirms the fact that our innovation system is not working. I cannot deal with everything that is wrong in the Estonian innovation system here, but I point out the more important. Firstly, we must set a clear target for new products and services from our research activities. This objective also requires a ranking of state support measures. Secondly, the State should ensure that measures in support of applied research are tailored to the needs of the undertaking in the development of a product or service. Currently, the Applied Research Action aims to promote cooperation between the Estonian public sector and research institutions, with emphasis on the development of research institutions and not on the need for companies. Thirdly, the state should encourage Estonian companies to cooperate with research institutions where, in view of their needs, development is the most competent, be it in Estonia or anywhere else. Similarly, the state must encourage research institutions to find and develop their advantages based on the global competitive position, not necessarily forcing companies and universities to cooperate with each other only within Estonia. Encouragement is not just a matter of warm words, but of specific support structures and funding. We still cannot be satisfied with the institutional framework for applied research. On the one hand, technology development centres have been set up which are active in applied research and product development, but they operate in rather narrow areas and their short-term financing does not allow them to work with a very long vision in the sector. However, a long vision is necessary for economic development. I quote Anne-Christine Rischkoff, representative of the Finnish technology centre VTT: 'If the VTT were privatized, it would no longer be a research centre but a consulting company. " This, too, should be considered by the state if it hopes to place the burden of applied research on companies alone. It is important to understand that R &amp; D is associated with high risks and is not always appropriate in market conditions. In my opinion, the time is ripe to hold a debate on whether Estonia needs its VTT. We have not invested enough in intermediary organisations, such as innovation centres, where people with both entrepreneurial and research experience are employed. In other parts of the world, the existence of such mediators has been a decisive catalyst for business and research institutions to come together. We have not invested in competences to advise and otherwise help companies in intellectual property investments. We are among the last among the Member States of the European Union in this respect, investing 5.4% of total investment in this activity, while in Eastern Europe the same figure is 9.7% and in Western Europe 13%. This lack is directly linked to the lack of development of innovative products and services. We've been keeping the PhD students on the famine who should be the creators and implementers of new knowledge. Raising the doctoral scholarship to the average net wage level should be self-evident. This list could continue. I sincerely hope that Estonia will soon be led by a government that understands the value of research and development and the content of innovation, who will be able to organise research and development in such a way that research also becomes an economic asset in the form of new products and services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U263	Please, on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U264	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! Good people's representatives! In his presentation, the Prime Minister gave very brilliant examples of Estonia's research and development achievements. These examples could be further illustrated. Estonian scientists have done well However, most of these vivid examples have been thriving thanks to the fact that for decades the very good work has been done and that the painful decisions that were made to develop the Estonian research system between 1995 and 1997 were really painful decisions when a large-scale, principled evalvation of the Estonian research system, or evaluation, was carried out, which led many to the loss of work and the change in the status of institutions, gave the Estonian research system as a whole a new restorative role. Looking at the current situation, I am very sorry that the government has so little ambition and courage to re-evaluate our entire research system. However, it would require extra money. We cannot make any reforms without additional money. It is not enough to do this by 14.9 million, which actually ensures that the current research system remains in need. We have a lot of good, and this is a lot of good in R &amp; D, thanks to previous decisions and thanks to the good work done by scientists. However, there are a number of issues that do not require so much money to deal with, but fundamental decisions, the need of which scientists themselves notice in everyday research. In the last issue of the Riigikogu Toimetised, the Estonian Academy of Young Sciences has also drawn attention to them. There is the greatest obstacle in the organisation of research, which requires a lot of time, attention and energy to overcome, too much administration, and with it the inevitable bureaucracy. It requires too much time, energy, attention and money from scientists. It inhibits trust and risk courage and reduces creativity and curiosity to what is a driving force in science. In a small country, trust, creativity and the desire to risk one of the most important levers of science. For all grants from the European Union, which have come from the Structural Funds and also through a number of other measures, and which have been very grateful and have helped Estonian science, we have paid too much attention to the fact that every euro has been spent exactly as foreseen. The actual results have been secondary. We should strongly reduce administration and, with it, reduce all this bureaucracy. Secondly, the long-term promotion of the entire research career. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U265	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U266	It starts with doctoral student support, which should not only rise by about EUR 200. A young person must have the opportunity to move forward on a once chosen path. This will certainly end with a complete career, the model of which we have been left with the competence of the higher education institutions themselves and, fortunately, also the competence of the Estonian Academy of Sciences. Here too, the state, especially the Ministry of Education and Research, has the opportunity to look at the whole picture and to say how it sees the career model applied to R &amp; D. Thirdly, comprehensive implementation of research results. In today's world, science in many ways shapes this thinking, an understanding of the things that lead to innovation in all entrepreneurship. That's where the money comes back, which we all really want to share as tax money. Indeed, we have implemented certain programmes and other measures with the support of euro money, which should also encourage cross-ministerial cooperation to address the problems raised in society. The country therefore has the opportunity to make clear what our main problems are. In this area, the use of humanitarian and social scientists has been too low, too modest. In the long run, it'll take revenge. No society that neglects its humanities and social sciences is happy and successful in the long run. This has been understood by France, Switzerland and we can name a great many other countries here. Forward, consolidation. Before all the smaller research institutions are finally eradicated, we should be able to answer the question of how we see Estonia's top science anyway. What kind of space do we see in a wide range of research institutions? Is Estonia a state, and I am convinced that there is a branch that will never neglect the branch that has been given to us in this world alone? This branch is the national sciences of Estonia from our soil science, our plant ecology and our folklore. We have nothing better or prouder than our own sciences. I would also like to emphasise that applied sciences are very necessary, but it must not be forgotten that applied science can be used when it is supported by fundamental sciences. You can't take your cart from one ditch to another ditch. This is a good opportunity. The innovation of research infrastructure begins and the state will once again have the opportunity to state clearly how research infrastructure can develop cooperation between research institutions and business. Science communication is never much. Scientists are obliged to inform society about what science is, how science speaks to people, and how science leads us all forward. They're ready for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U267	The Prime Minister uses the right to speak again. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U268	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! First of all, I would like to thank you very much for today's debate and discussion. It was definitely necessary for me. Thank you for your questions. Thank you, as I have already said, for this previous meeting of the Committee on Culture and for today's presentations. Thank you to the representatives of the political groups, both Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubitsa, Barbi Pilvret, Aadu Musta, Anne Sullingu and Krista Aru! When I prepared today's presentation, I got to know quite a lot of materials, as well as various interviews. The last waitress, Krista Aru, pointed out on several occasions that our scientists made a huge contribution to the success of science. I read, among other things, the interview given last October by Tarmo Soomere, the President of the Estonian Academy of Sciences. Perhaps it would be appropriate to quote him here. The journalist asked what is the current state of science in Estonia. And he replied: "Estonia's science is surprisingly strong and we contribute significantly more to the international scientific environment than we could expect by our size. This importance is difficult to measure, but last year, for example, the reputable scientific journal Science recaptured the most brilliant scientific achievement of the year 10 to 15. The achievement of Estonian scientists was one of them. It's like being the top ten of all the world's sports. This study is the work of the Estonian Biocentre Collective, which revealed how humanity came out of its home and began to expand a long time ago, 100,000 years ago. So Estonian science is at the absolute height of the world. And that is, regardless of the financing schemes. '. There's one more thing I want to say. Perhaps it is believed that here in the Riigikogu's speech chair and in the Riigikogu at all, the opposition and coalition are just throwing such political opinions into the air. I want to thank Anne Sulling for supporting the current government. I've done a little calculation on doctoral student support, which is as follows. The grant for doctoral students was always EUR 383,47 between 2005 and 2015. In 2015, it rose by only 10% to EUR 422. As I pointed out in my speech and when I answered the questions, this increase is the first real step towards achieving the goal that the support of doctoral students will increase significantly. If I now count all the increases in support that five Reform Party governments have made in 11 years, then it can be said that we raised this support over and above five previous governments. But finally, I thank the entire Riigikogu. It is very necessary that the discussion of research and development and the state of affairs take place here in the Chamber of the Riigikogu. Of course, I would also like to thank you for your daily contribution to the advancement of Estonian science. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U269	I will close the negotiations and also close the debate on this item, which, as we know, is not due to the adoption of the Riigikogu's decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U270	The next item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity and other laws initiated by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union and the Group of the Social Democratic Party. I would like to present the Chair of the Finance Committee to Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U271	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, The preparation of this draft law for the second reading was discussed by the Committee on Monetary Affairs on Monday, 8 January. Nine members of the Commission were present, and specialists from the Ministry of Finance were also represented: one was Heidi Vessel, chief specialist from the Department of Customs and Excise Policy, and the other was Kadri Kloos, analyst from the Fiscal Policy Department. We stated that seven proposals were received by the deadline of 28 December at 5.15 p.m. of the amendments. One was from Aivar Sõerd and six from the Free Party Group. Mr Sõerd, as representative of the initiators, presented the content of his amendment to the Commission. In short, this proposal is to go back to the schedule for the increase in excise duty that was set in 2015. The representative of the Government of the Republic stated that he did not support the proposal. Then there was a debate, which was extremely interesting. At first, the chairman of the committee had to intervene when Mr Sõerd tried to formulate something on behalf of Mrs Vessel. We had an interlocutor there, which ended with the fact that I asked everyone to put everything literally on tape to record everything that they said. So if anyone wants to read about it in detail, it's in the e.M.S. It has been taken off tape and 100% corresponds to what we had in the Commission. Another interesting point was when Mr Sõerd accused the chairman of the committee that he had promised to bring together interested alcohol producers, etc., to discuss excise policy from the perspective of how it could affect small shops in South Estonia. On this point, the committee chairman asked staff to examine all the protocols, all the recordings, as much material as there is, so that this picture could be fully explained. It turned out that last year was probably in October, I'm telling you right now, the protocol number is 156, Mr Sõerd offered an exit session so that we could drive in and talk to interested parties. Whether it was local authorities or small shop owners, for example, is not clear. But the Commission's decision was, according to this protocol, that we would first invite the board of the Tax and Customs Board, talk to them about these issues, and then decide whether or not we need an outing session and these meetings. Protocol 159 is about our meeting with the Tax and Customs Board. A lot of questions were asked there, and we finally got a lot of information to take note of. Unfortunately, in this sitting, Mr Sõerdi was replaced by a colleague, Mr Tiidus, and the proposal to take this outing session and to meet alcohol producers, for example, no one did. He went on to vote. The first amendment received three votes in favour and six against. The following were six amendments tabled by the Free Party Group. The initiators' representative, Mr Ammas, announced that, in principle, the six amendments coincide with the first proposal tabled by Mr Sõerd, and he would not mind if we voted on them all at once. It was a consensual decision. For all six amendments tabled by the Free Party Group, the same result was the same: three in favour, six against. And then came the procedural decisions. First of all, the second reading here today is to be completed by 6 against 3. Secondly, if the second reading is completed, send the draft to the third reading by 16 January, including the final vote. There were 6 in favour, 0 against and 1 abstention. Maybe that'll be all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U272	The debate between the chairman of the committee and Aivar Sõerd continues in the form of questions and answers. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U273	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I am not going to continue this debate in this key, as the chairman of the committee did on his tours to the discussions of the Commission. I will continue with the substance of the bill. When the current coalition made an agreement on this issue, one of the sources of the cost was the increase in alcohol excise duty. That's what you were hoping for. 25 million more. However, are we not now in the situation that last year's excise duty receipts after these major increases in excise duty will be much lower than a year earlier in 2016? In my opinion, the expected revenue from the 2017 budget will not come full after a double adjustment. What's your estimate of the amount of excise duty we're gonna have in 2017?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U274	You're an experienced economic man, and you know that anything can happen. For example, excise duties were estimated at one time in 2011 and they were probably 100% or 101% of expected revenues, as was the case a few years earlier. Actually, 95% came in. In 2013, 92% of the planned excise duty was collected. So anything can happen. What happens, we will find out, and we talked about it in the Commission. The results of the previous year are now being declared. Until we have them, and we haven't heard the explanations of the specialists at the Ministry of Finance, I wouldn't take the courage to claim that this is going to be the case. Sometimes you just have to wait a little bit.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U275	Thomas Stone Mountain.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U276	Thank you, Mr President. Very honourable Chairman of the Commission. At the joint meetings of the four Commissions two days ago, small traders sent a message that if the price difference is up to 20%, it would be bearable, but all that is beyond that is, well, no mitigation measures will help. Didn't you consider giving up the increase in excise duty at all? You were limited to a half-less increase in excise duty, but I would stress: still a rise. Do you believe that such a cosmetic change will change anything at all, or is it merely a political agreement because it was simply not ready for more? In my opinion, this is obviously a completely cosmetic correction, a point-picking technique. It doesn't change that path to Lätti for a cent.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U277	Thank you. I would very much like to be such a rich person, for whom EUR 10 million is simply a cosmetic correction. I'm not, and I probably won't be. It is difficult for me to imagine such a serious change as that proposed by the Minister of Finance in a compromise. I will say my personal opinion: I would not have done this, in any case not until we have heard the summer forecast come true before we know the specific receipts. However, I would have waited for the process to proceed. But in answer to your direct question, no, it has not been considered.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U278	Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U279	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! Did the Commission discuss lowering excise duty rates on products similar to tobacco? I mean the base fluids for e-cigarettes, which came with a 100% excise duty.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U280	Thank you. No, we didn't discuss that. And it would be weird if we had a confirmed agenda and there was a specific material that we needed to discuss, and we would start discussing something else. The Committee on Finance will not allow it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U281	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U282	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I'm not asking about any drinks here at all, so I'm asking you that you said everything was literally written in the minutes. First of all, have literal protocols been made before in the Commission? And second, do you think that very specific protocols should be done more and in many committees to show that it said so, and the other said it back?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U283	Thank you. Sometimes situations arise where someone's claim is called into question. Like in that anecdote where Grandpa tells the boy how he went to war and how he became a hero, and finally he says, "Are you clear now? ' And the boy says, 'Yes, of course, everything is clear. Only I don't understand why all these other soldiers and an army were needed. You did great on everyone, Grandpa! " Sometimes situations occur where one remembers one, the other remembers the other. Listening to a colleague of mine at the time, I realized that he was about to quote the Chief Specialist or Analyst of the Ministry of Finance using his formulas. In order for it to be contained, I made this request. It's just a matter of organisation, of discipline. I understand that Commission officials have such a literal protocol to print, even though there is only one specific issue of additional work and effort, but sometimes it is necessary to do so, there is nothing to be done. So this isn't our usual practice. We usually remember who said what and who applied for what, but in this case, we just had to do it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U284	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U285	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I have a purely formal question. When I look at this bill, I look at paragraphs 1, 2, 3, of Article 1, and I look at the law in force, I do not understand why it is formulated as it is. One paragraph of § 46 (1) is exactly the same, only the figures are different. There is no such analog in the other points. Could you please explain what's going on?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U286	Yeah, sure. These are points for which there are different dates of entry into force. Look at the end of the bill, it says the dates of entry into force. One point enters into force in one year, the other in the second year, the third in the third year. This is how certain provisions are drawn up. But I'm really glad you asked me a question, Mrs Hatter. I waited two months for this. Last year, November 15th, we were discussing, I remind you, remember! The state budget. Then, now I have to put my glasses on, I had answered for some 45 minutes, and then your question rang. It contained such a passage: 'Thank you, good vice chairman! Good chairman of the committee! I've been listening to you here for an hour, and two thirds of the answers are in the tone that you did the same. " Two thirds! Two-thirds, that's 66.6%. What did I do now? I took out the part of the verbogram that was my answer. I took the questions down, didn't I? There was this five - and - a - half - page verbatim report. And there are those sentences in red where I referred to the past. You see, right here! I'll give you that statement. There are five lines on this page, there is nothing on the second page, there is nothing on the third page, there is nothing on the fourth, there is nothing on the fifth and the sixth. Mrs. Hatter, you seem to be feeling very unobjective about me. You said 66.6% of what I was talking about was what you did back in the day. There's 238 rows, five of which are from what's been done before. It's, I'd say, 1.7%. Such a factual mistake still needs to be corrected, even two months later. So please check if you make such claims!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U287	Aivar Sõerd.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U288	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! There have been border trades in other countries, but what is currently happening on the other side of the Latvian border is quite unprecedented and massive. Experience in other countries shows that if the difference in excise rates between the two countries crosses a certain border, there will be border trade. This critical difference in excise duties is also known due to research. Have you ever wondered what this difference in excise rates is, for example, in the case of strong alcohol? What does the experience of other countries show when border trade takes place? And how big is this bill going to be after this change of yours, the difference with Latvia, I mean, the excise duty on strong alcohol?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U289	Got it. Now, just a minute... Now, I probably won't find this table right now, but it's been received by all of us, it's in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I looked at it and saw that in the case of a few alcoholic beverages, the difference between Finland and me is 21⁄2 times. It is clear that, if there is such a gap, border trade cannot simply be ruled out. But the problems with Latvia started when the difference was about 1.4 times. I tried to do those calculations. It has been said that this difference actually began to work especially in the second half of last year. I could say that then it was a coefficient of 1.5. In my opinion, this is the difference between the heat of border trade and this is the magic number. But these are just my thoughts when I looked at this table, which, by the way, was also in the draft explanatory memorandum at first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U290	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U291	Thank you, manager. Mr President of the Commission. I will repeat some of the question on the previous subject, but I would like to clarify. When the coalition groups presented this draft, the government approved it. The difference with Finnish excise duties was also addressed and the opinion was expressed that this would not reduce the number of buyers coming from Finland or affect the sales of alcohol in Estonia. It is now known that in the meantime Finland has relaxed its alcohol policy, and Finnish-numbered cars are increasingly seen on the other side of the Latvian border. Perhaps the proposal to further reduce the increase in alcohol duty is reasonable, however? After all, we must also consider how Finland is reducing its alcohol policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U292	Thank you. I don't do international politics at all, but life experience tells me that if anyone wants vodka, he's gonna do like a crazy rabbit, like, 300 klicks long to buy it cheaper. Well, that depends, of course, on the quantity of the goods. But the psychology of people drinking vodka has been a black spot for me for many years. I do not want to predict when someone will come or go to buy vodka and when I will not be absolutely competent on this issue. I don't basically support drinking. For me, it is a disgrace that in any study carried out in this regard either by the World Health Organisation or by UNESCO, Estonia is firmly the first ten. Some ratings show that in recent years only Moldova and Belarus have gone ahead, in some other studies we see Lithuania first, and some others are ahead of us. I don't like it at all. I like policies that make access to alcohol more difficult, especially for young people. So basically, I can answer your question only on the basis of my personal experience. I don't know if it pleases you or not, but it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U293	Thomas Stone Mountain.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U294	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President of the Commission. I'm gonna grab that 10 million. Indeed, EUR 10 million is a lot of money, provided that it actually exists. In this case, and in view of this bill, I would rather say that you actually simply reduced your dreams or reduced their air. In fact, we couldn't possibly have gotten that money if this bill were to be adopted or not. The explanatory memorandum to the draft law shows that the aim is still to mitigate the risks associated with border trade. Now, for the second time, I'm going to ask you straight. I understand that fiscally, the amount of air is now reduced in the state budget. Is it also known how much the adoption of the bill as a law could affect people's consumption habits, including where they go to buy. Or is it a lot to want?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U295	As far as consumption patterns are concerned, I have just mentioned that you need another specialist to find out. On the point of sale, on your first question, you referred to the four joint meetings of the Commission that took place yesterday in this conference room. After this trial, I put my signatures where I needed to, and I prepared a plan for today. Then I went to the market that was opened next to the Baltic station. Why? Because there's a small, I'd say a village shop, if it wasn't in Tallinn, it would really be called a village shop. This is Muhu Bakery's little store, and I only buy bread there. From there I went on, there's another one, I almost had to say that the kolkhoz store, a small shop where fish is sold. I really like to buy smoked fish there. And now I'm going to give my opinion on whether the law affects or doesn't affect purchases. Either way, it's working! As I said yesterday, I have this experience of the 1990s. Narva was near the house where I lived yesterday I reminded everyone of six small shops. Two were in the basement. Or three? Yeah, three! Three were in the basement and three were on the first floor. We went to those stores. Afterwards Maxima and Prisma appeared aside and we stopped going to small stores. And there aren't any left. It hasn't just happened in Narva. My mother lives in Tallinn on Sõpruse Avenue, and my grandmother lived on Tammsaare Road. There's exactly 12 minutes of normal speed between these houses. There were four small shops, all on the first floor in five- and nine-fold houses. Where are they? There aren't any. There are processes that make small shops not able to resist the big ones. Except for two possibilities. One way is for a small store to sell something that isn't in the big stores and chains. The world's most delicious black bread belongs to the Muhu Bakers. And I already know a number of colleagues who I introduced this shop and this opportunity to, and who go to the market to buy this bread, because it's really the best. This is an opportunity, innovative. The second option is what I regretted the chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, because I said that we can also save these shops by taking certain people on the payroll. We start paying the sellers, we start paying the store owners if we want to keep these stores. Because the village cultural institutions are closed, the policeman and the doctor are gone, the savings bank is gone. The shops that used to be in the villages, right? They're closed. Schools have also been abolished. So two options. Perhaps an innovative opportunity will be found to attract buyers, for example, with excellent bread or fish. We have a small shop near Kohtla-Järve in Ida-Virumaa, where half of Ida-Virumaa goes to buy blood sausage, everyone knows that it is the best in the world. This is how the result is achieved and lived. However, if we are talking about competing with Selver either in Estonia or in Latvia, I am afraid, this will not work in small shops.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U296	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Commission. No further questions for you. I will open negotiations on the draft provisions. Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U297	Honourable Chairman! It was a good reminder that we are talking about a bill here. In fact, the chairman of the committee should talk about the debate on the committee. It's rather depressing that he comes here and talks about anything and completely misses the subject. And worst of all, he shows complete ignorance about the subject. He recently claimed that he was ashamed to see Estonia at the top of the alcohol consumption table all the time. I took out WHO statistics. There are a lot more than 100 countries here, the 2010 table is ahead of me, and it is very difficult to find a country where alcohol consumption is lower than in Estonia, most of which are higher. He said we were on top. I know that statistics are often debatable also because of border trade, but in 2010 border trade was in our favor. But this average consumption over 15 years of age was already less than 10 liters a year. Here's a list of countries. When he named Belarus and Lithuania, I will name it here, I will start the list again: Belarus, Moldova, Lithuania, Russia, Romania, Ukraine, Hungary, Czech Republic, Slovakia, Portugal, Serbia, Grenada, Poland, Latvia, Finland, France. Everyone had a higher consumption of alcohol. There were a few countries that were smaller in the meantime. Austria was near us. To date, I believe that we have, in essence, set a world record. I have studied these tables and have not found a faster reduction in alcohol consumption than in Estonia. By 2016, our consumption was already 8.4 litres per capita, i.e. this figure. And now the evil languages say that we have achieved the objective of the Green Paper for less than 8 liters per capita. I agree, it should be further reduced. But the problem is alcohol policy. It all happened! After all, the provisions of this bill are also in alcohol policy. Do we still have to increase alcohol duty if it was done before that massive increase in alcohol duty last summer? All the statistics are against it. Our group is firmly opposed to this draft, because doing half the stupidity is the same as doing half the stupidity. They've crossed the line and should actually turn back. I'm gonna name some records now. I have written about them, but obviously Mikhail Stalnukhin, chairman of the committee, is not interested in more serious reviews. If he gave such a speech, such a conclusion can be drawn. I have collected data on statistics which, as if, justify another increase in excise duty, but I think these data are rejecting this need. They could justify the government's decision, but they really don't. First of all, in the fall in consumption in ten years, or during the last alcohol policy, we are probably record players. In the summer, however, we set a record for an increase in excise duty: 70% on beer, 45% on wine, and now we're gonna hit everything else. We set a European record on the relationship between excise duty and income. We have the most burdensome excise duty rates on income in Europe. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U298	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U299	Next, we have the highest share of alcohol duty in family consumption budgets, which once again shows that we are already on the same side. We have the most lean alcohol taxation compared to strong alcohol. All other countries favour lean alcohol consumption, we are talking with an important face that it was necessary to put an end to the stagnation and to harmonise excise duties. All other countries are holding or gradually tilting their consumption towards the low. Most European countries do not excise wine at all, beer is excised to 22 countries, and I say this now at a lower rate than Estonia. Yet we are behind our purchasing power. And what's the result of all this? Of course, a drunk is not stupid and a moderate consumer is not stupid. He doesn't buy more expensive stuff, he goes for the cheaper Latvia. And here's the record: we've probably scored a record on the share of border trade in total consumption. These data have not been validated, but these are the manufacturer's estimates, all of which have confirmed this. A year ago, producers claimed that this figure would be 40% to 50%, and now they think that it is full. That's what our papers have written, and I think it's true. I think this information is correct. At first, the prognosis seemed incredible, but now we see these rounds formed to get alcohol from a cheaper neighborhood. Mikhail also said that a drunker is still going for stronger stuff, but he's also going for the consumer. If there's a big car, he'll fill it up and win hundreds of euros in one trip. And it's not good for public health. We're going to do damage at every turn with this increase in excise duty. People's health suffers because they bring together cheaper drinks and buy those who tend to drink more and whose wallet is sensitive to excise duty. Now this problem is smaller and people tend to exaggerate. Of course, the result is also huge tax losses. All forecasts have been brought down all the time, the hope of extra money does not hold out. And finally entrepreneurship. Let Mikhail speak of anything, for example, that the biggest problem in our economy is Russian sanctions, as he had said yesterday in the Commission. In fact, the problem is still that shops cannot support themselves if they do not have the alcohol turnover that we offer to Latvia. They cannot cope because the store's costs are divided into fixed and variable costs and you must at least cover the fixed costs in order to cover the variable costs at all. This is economics and the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs should know that. The evil root is not Russian sanctions. This is about our own sanctions against our own people, the sanctions imposed by our government, which are detrimental to the health of the Estonian people. Get it together! It is particularly silly in finance to hear a justification for such an increase in excise duty when the budget is already losing. At the same time, I think we could all be very critical of drinking. Not only Mikhail, we don't like what's going on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U300	Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U301	Good chairman of the sitting! Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I would remind the previous speaker that each Member of the Commission, including the chairman of the committee, is free to speak. Unfortunately, I have not been here at night sittings, where, as far as I know, too much is said about things that are not relevant to the subject. But my question to the chairman of the committee was that we are dealing with a draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity and other laws. Namely, I am currently on the board because I am one of the few in the Riigikogu who consumes e-smokers. And there is a base liquid for e-smokers, which now has a hard excise, or 20 euro cents per milligram. The volume of 10 milligrams was therefore 2 euros more expensive. I'm obliged to report to people I know who use e-smokers. They ask why they did so, and maybe this bill will pull off this huge excise. I say I don't. Me and Madis Milling are the only ones in the Riigikogu who smoke e-smokers, and it has been extremely difficult for us to explain to colleagues what e-smokers are. Yes, quite a few have thought that this controversy is somehow linked to the e-elections. However, some believe that everything that is e-is not an e-, but rather a sign of the euro. So there are different opinions. We've been over this, but it's not enough. You can't make two men into an e-smokers support group either. But if there's another smoker who wants less harm to his health, that's great. I would remind you that over 400 studies have been carried out in England, and it has turned out that e-smoking poses 95% less risk to health than conventional tobacco. I haven't figured out what this evil root is. Is this really glycerine, which is the base fluid? If so, I do not see the reason for such an excise duty. For perfume products, we do not increase the price, nor do we impose on pastry products. But if the root of evil is nicotine, why don't we apply excise duty to nicotine patches or chewing gum that helps us quit smoking? Let's hit 'em, too! So, what's the root of evil? So, good people who make e-smokers, one suggestion: don't paddle, don't make these big sneakers in front of the people of the Riigikogu, because some of them might be scared! You don't need an e-smoker to make a smoke. There's a smoke machine. As a bandman, I know that, and it's not gonna start at the throat. Now, listen to this drink, I have to say, I didn't really get it. In the meantime, people talk about health care, and then they say that drinks are more expensive. I'm an education chef, and as a shift parent, I once made a funny Christmas offer. They asked if you had a very cheap welcome drink. I said there is: Indian whiskey. They asked what it was. You take the rock glass, you put 4 cents of cooled tea with two ice cubes in it, and then you hit a drinker with a baseball bat on his head. Takes the picture right away, and the next day, the head is sick. The chefs know that Indian scotch. Yesterday's joint meeting of the four Commissions got weird. We were talking about country shops, and we were talking about alcohol making up 20% of their sales. I thought we were talking about 80%. Can I have an extra three minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U302	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U303	Thanks! So we've got the people in bed with this alcohol, high excise duty on alcohol. What can I say? The Riigikogu is really good in the sense that it still cares about drinktralls. The previous speakers, as well as others, have spoken about the choices of a drunkard. It is not because a drunkard is not going to travel to another Estonia to win five to six euros. During this time, the good buzz will fade away and the friends of the road will disappear. You have to be Tõnisson, barefoot, to go for a drink like that. There are other ways to get a drink, but I don't want to talk about it. When we talk about the law on alcohol and other excise duties, I hope that if another smoker joins the current two e-smokers in the Riigikogu, we will be able to discuss this issue in different political groups. I, in my group, couldn't get my comrades in bed, and I couldn't tell them what this e-smoker really was. And I see that Madis Milling has not been able to do so in his group either. We'll work on it. At first, however, let's think about whether a drink is expensive or not, but I want to come to the title of today's draft. It also contains the word 'fuel excise'. Jüri Manor has once said 15 years ago that until an Estonian person agrees to pay more for water than for fuel, Estonia's life will be fine. And that's it. Today I learned that fuel costs us EUR 1.30 per litre, while we buy a half-litre bottle of water at the same store with one euro, and we are happy that we got it at the right price. From here I can conclude that life is like strawberry. So, what's the problem? It may also be a question of whether those people who are planning to drive cars to Latvia on 24 February will participate in the protest campaign or whether it is only the hardened alcoholics who use a free Saturday, which is also a public holiday. Are people going to replenish themselves, or is this a protest? I don't understand it. If you have to put a snout on it, you can do it very easily. You don't have to go that far. Let me remind you that we have survived Gorbachev's times, most of us are alive. So I think we could support this bill if it's a little less intense. I understand everyone would want alcohol to be delicious. But until then, if an Estonian person is willing to pay more for water than for fuel, Estonia's life will be fine. Have a good night.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U304	Before we continue to discuss the subject of the draft law 559, Jürgen Ligi has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U305	Thank you. I actually have a procedural question after this speech, which began with a reproach on me, that in fact anyone can talk about anything on the remote. In your introduction, you said elegantly that we should now talk about the provisions of the bill, which I did. Do you agree that the MP is not so free in his speech that the chairman of the committee can talk about anything that does not concern the debate of the committee, and that a member of the Riigikogu can talk about e-cigarettes or excise duties on petrol if the provisions of the draft are exclusively about excise duties on alcohol? Do you agree that there are not really such free ambassadors in their speeches on this board?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U306	The degree of freedom and, in particular, the exact setting of the framework for freedom is relatively difficult in this Chamber as well, but I tend to agree with Jürgen Ligi now, especially after hearing the last statement of opinion. Please, Aivar Sõerd!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U307	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The fact that the present coalition has gone into trouble with its alcohol excise is becoming increasingly clear every day. And the bill we are discussing here is not going to solve anything. The Ministry of Finance has also understood the seriousness of the situation. I am not surprised that this year either the coalition from this Riigikogu or the government will come up with a separate draft adjusting the rates of alcohol duty, because border trade between Estonia and Latvia is unprecedented. There are border trades in other countries as well, but we have still achieved a very high level of this compared to others. And rather than discuss the substance of the matter either in the Committee on Monetary Affairs or in this Chamber, we need to hear the personal attacks of the Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs and an overview of the debate on the formalisation of the minutes. It's really weird. The protocol is yes, it is here, I printed it out nine pages long, and there are, of course, other points that we discussed on Monday. It's all right. I don't see any problem here. What a problem our country has with excise duties, which I also paid attention to in the Commission. The chairman of the committee may not like this, but I am still asking what I am interested in. The chairman of the committee should not tell us what may be asked and what cannot be asked. But the situation is, in short, this. If I understand correctly, last year's excise duty receipts, which included increases in excise duties from 1 July, are below the 2016 level. I asked the chairman of the committee, but he did not want to answer that question. In last year's budget, I understand, the excise was planned for just over 260 million and this target was adjusted twice as much until it reached 238 million in the autumn forecast. I asked the Commission how it is whether it would come full or whether it would be missing. A representative of the Ministry of Finance said that indeed, this sum is not going to be quite full. Either way, it's a big problem. The Ministry of Finance will monitor these receipts in progress and the final numbers we will find out after 20 January when the time for submitting the declarations is. But as I understand it, it's well below 238 million, 230 million or even 225 million. That's a problem anyway. Since 100 million more have been written off in this year's budget, there may be reason to continue to adjust excise duties on alcohol during this year. The chairman of the committee also stayed on my amendment. It doesn't quite offer the excise rise schedule that the previous government had, but the lean alcohol excise duty has been adjusted down a lot. Strong alcohol would be such that on 1 February the 5% increase would be canceled and from 2019 the 5% increase would be a year-on-year increase. That was the content of my proposal. A similar point was developed by the Minister of Finance in an interview at the end of the year. In my opinion, the proposal is justified. This is the only way, if we want to reduce border trade, because if this 5% increase remains, the problem of border trade will not be solved. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U308	Please! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U309	I also asked the chairman of the committee to comment on the fact that the experience of other countries shows that, if the difference in excise duties gets too big, there will be a certain level of border trade. In the light of the experience of other countries, I have realised that this critical difference is EUR 4 per unit rate in the case of strong alcohol. After this draft has been approved, the difference will be more than EUR 8 - twice as much as it would have suffered. So in any case, it will not solve border trade. Returning to the Commission's debate. My proposal was to go and see what was going on and meet representatives of the municipality. I don't know why you could make it personal or set it up like a personal attack. What's the problem? Let's go see what's happening on the ground, talk to the municipalities, see what's happening on the border and what's being built on the side of Latvia. These are your coalition investments! As a result of your policy, these shopping malls, these liquor stores and wholesale warehouses will be there, so why not look at it on the spot? One more thing, I have one minute. Look, we're gonna have an interesting situation. From February 1, we have an increase of 5% in alcohol duty. Latvia will increase this rate on 1 March. So in February, it is particularly advantageous to buy excise goods from Latvia. But in conclusion, there is nothing more to say than that if a country creates the prerequisites for the proliferation of border trade, then border trade will also grow. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U310	Andres Ammas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U311	Honourable President! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! Indeed, the faction of the Free Party does not understand why coalition parties have chosen a half-way solution, which is why it is imperative to chop that dog's tail several times. Already in the first reading of this draft, my colleague from the IRL Group acknowledged that probably this year's budget will not be filled with revenue and we can expect a negative supplementary budget. In today's debate, we have also learned, both through the mouth of the chairman of the committee and through other speeches, that we do not really know the final figures from last year. How big the deficit is going to be last year, we don't know today. We do not know that we do not yet have a clear position on how to react to the rise in oil prices and what to do with fuel excise duties. It would be wise for all this excise policy to be more systematic, more thorough, rather than to carry out small PR tricks, which would be quite appropriate to call this draft. The faction of the Free Party has still stressed that errors in excise policy were already made during the previous government. That's pretty clear. The current government, led by Jüri Ratas, poured petrol into the fire and thereby exceeded the limits of the tolerance of the Estonian people in every way and, unfortunately, it was already irreversible for several years to come. We have said, self-critically as Estonians, that we cannot get lucky at first, then we cannot stop. Now this path to Latvia is really trampled in, as one of the previous speakers said, and this trend is not going to change so easily. Nor does it change this trend if the southern neighbours lift their excises a little bit. The belief that Latvia will become wholesale and cheap will persist for a long time and will have negative consequences, both fiscally and psychologically. I want to highlight one of the moments that PhD Kariina Laas wrote about a few days before Christmas at Postimees. He described there as well known to psychologists and not at all a very complex theory of response. Very harshly to impose commands and prohibitions and try to regulate something, then the reaction, the rebellion against this regulation, could quite easily arise. And the more he wants to influence his behavior, the more he feels that the order is stupid, that he thinks the giver of the order is stupid, the more forcefully he protests. I think that the good colleague Tarmo actually understands very well that this action of 24 February is still a protest act. It does not express the desire for cheap alcohol. Following alcohol in Latvia has become a form of spending time in its own right; it has become, I would say, a form of tourism already. Yesterday we heard from the small shoppers and heard from our esteemed colleague Aivar Koka, all of which can still be bought in Latvia and made in Latvia. And all these options will be used in addition to buying alcohol. This protest is very difficult to stop, it is very difficult to rearrange people. And this protest is understandable, there is no way to blame people for reacting that way. It is a pity, however, that in fact this protest expresses a negative assessment not only of the government coalition, but of the state of Estonia as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U312	Speaking on the spot. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U313	Thank you, good vice chairman. It hasn't been for a while, but today's chairman of the committee surprised me once again. And it's got me worried. I have a wish and a request that if we go to report our drafts, we do not overheat ourselves because of outside questions. I understand we're under a lot of pressure, but maybe it makes sense to solve personal tension before we go to the remote. I have personally experienced outbursts of hatred by Res Publica's boys, most of whom have now left politics. At the same time, I was pleased that when the attack on me had taken place, the waitress's body language and tone of voice signaled that she had calmed down and been relieved. But I expected and expected that we could talk more about the consequences of alcohol policy with the chairman of the committee. I was in my country of birth for two weeks in Valgamaa, and if anyone you talk to says it's normal for him to go to Latvia once a week to replenish supplies, that's what worries me. As Andres Ammas said, this is not only a protest against the government, it is an increasing protest against the Estonian state. And we can't let that get worse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U314	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U315	Ladies and gentlemen, I'll try to be as brief as possible. There is already a lot of time and previous speakers from both the Reform Party and the Free Party have made very constructive speeches, with very constructive arguments. There is no need to repeat all this. As they say, it's clear to the hedgehog. The task of the Riigikogu and the government is to base all their decisions on the fact that our actions, our decisions, our views on the future will be to Estonia's economy, the people of Estonia's lives. The draft, which is being pushed through today as if it were a sign to improve the health behaviour of noble people, is highly duplicitous. We already know this year's experience of statistics, although it is not yet final, that the excise policy is actually putting a pretty tough stunt on the Estonian economy, the Estonian budget and the capacity of our country. As a result of eight months, I do not know the latest figures in Estonia, but in Latvia it increased by 15%. It's all the money we've lost that we've given to our neighbors with ease. The whole thing has been extremely two-faced. You approve that Finns come here to buy, but you condemn the fact that Estonians go to Latvia to buy. Of course, the more foreign tourists we have, the more they buy in here, the more they support our economy and our treasury. It's good for us. It's good for us. On the contrary, if we give this much to Latvia because of the government's fault, it will be harmful to us. It's as simple as that. If you are concerned about the collection of excise duties, we should lower the rates of excise duty where they were, and our receipts will increase again. It's not rocket science, it's an elementary fact. I hope that fact reaches every person who pushes a button here today. These are simple things. I hope the coalition also has the ability to understand simple things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U316	The right to rejoin is Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U317	Thank you! A good colleague, Andres Ammas, referred here to shopping tourism. For me, tourism is linked to cultural activity. And to bring happier notes to the debate, I assure you that our drink culture, as such, is evolving. We're about to get rid of the Finno-Ugric drinking to death mentality and reach a new level: we're cultural drinktralls.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U318	Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U319	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to say so much that I don't know where to start. Let's start with how happy I am that a young beautiful woman is following my body language. I never thought my every move would be understood that way. It's amazing, especially in this hall. Thanks anyway! As far as my presentation is concerned, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that when I present a report, I am a representative of the Commission and I cannot go away from the subject. That is the only way I am talking about what has happened in the Commission. And that's what the protocols prove, which you can read. When I answer the questions, I always have the opportunity to say to one or another colleague that, honourable colleague, we have not discussed this in the committee and I will not talk to you about this remote matter. At the same time, however, we do tend to be polite to each other, right, and sometimes I express the opinion of the coalition, sometimes the opinion of the party, often my personal opinion, if it is to be heard. And if I answer that question and be polite, I think it's rude to call me names for it, Mr. Nearly because I'm gonna answer you. All the more so because you were not in the Commission during this debate. You came a little later, so what can you say about this debate? But now one positive message that I would like to emphasise to you right now. This bill is a compromise. If some have not yet understood this, I will repeat in clear language: this draft is a compromise. There was one option and there was another, there were two extreme options, but in the end we achieved that we were right in the middle. And we always have the chance to come back to that question. A person who wants everything can eventually lose everything. The whole compromise policy, the art of compromise, still needs to be practiced here, with a normal view of each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U320	No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The commission has proposed that the second reading be stopped, but seven amendments have also been tabled. We'll go through them together. The first amendment has been tabled by Aivar Sõerd; the proposal of the commission is to disregard it. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U321	I would like to ask you to vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U322	Please, let's vote on Aivar Sõerd's proposal. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Aivar Sõerdi's amendment to bill 559. There's another reading going on. The decision of the commission was to disregard this proposal. Please take a stand and vote. 30 MPs voted in favour of the amendment, 43 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The second amendment was tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. It is the decision of the Governing Commission to disregard this. Andres Ammas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U323	I would like to ask for this proposal to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U324	Let's do it. Is the Riigikogu ready to vote? I shall put to the vote the second amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. Decision of the Governing Commission: not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 30 MPs voted in favour of the amendment, 43 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The third amendment has been tabled by the Estonian Free Party Group. It is the decision of the Governing Commission to disregard this. Andres Ammas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U325	I would also like to ask you to vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U326	Are we ready to vote? I shall put the third amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party to the vote on the decision of the commission: to be disregarded. Please take a stand and vote. 29 MPs voted in favour of the amendment, 43 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The fourth amendments have been submitted by the Group of the Estonian Free Party; the decision of the commission is to disregard them. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U327	Please put this amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U328	Let us put this proposal to a vote. I shall put to the vote the fourth amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. Decision of the Governing Commission: not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. There were 28 parliamentarians in favour of the amendment, 41 against and no abstentions. Amendment 4 was not supported. The fifth amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party and the decision of the commission is to disregard it. Andres Ammas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U329	I would also like to ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U330	I shall put to the vote the fifth amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. Decision of the Governing Commission: not to be taken into account. What do you think? Please take a stand and vote. There were 30 parliamentarians in favour of the amendment, 43 against and no abstentions. The fifth proposal did not find the hall's support. The sixth amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party, decision of the commission: disregard. Andres Ammas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U331	Thank you. Since the attitudes of the large Chamber seem to be changing all the time, I would also ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U332	The fluctuations are great, it's true. I shall put to the vote the sixth amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. Decision of the Governing Commission: not to be taken into account. Now let's see what you think. Please! There were 28 parliamentarians in favour of the amendment, 43 against and no abstentions. The sixth proposal was not supported. The seventh amendment has also been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. Decision of the Governing Commission: not to be taken into account. The amendments to draft 559 have thus been examined. The proposal of the commission is to conclude the second reading of the draft 559, but the Group of the Estonian Reform Party proposes to interrupt the second reading of the draft law amending excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity and other laws. We need to vote through this proposal. Is the Riigikogu ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal of the Group of the Estonian Reform Party to interrupt the second reading of the Act amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity and other laws 559. Please take a stand and vote. 30 parliamentarians voted in favour of the proposal, 43 against and no abstentions. The political group's proposal to suspend the procedure for the draft law was not supported. Second reading of the bill is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U333	Second reading of the draft law amending the Nature Conservation Act and the Forest Act, initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group, the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union and the Social Democratic Party faction. Peeter Ernits, member of the Environment Committee, please waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U334	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I will tell you about the session of the Committee on the Environment of the Riigikogu, which was on 8 January. a. The subject relates to the previous draft, but the content of this draft is the buy-out of land subject to conservation restrictions. Following the meeting of the Commission, Ms Anneli Ott Valeri as an alternate member of the Corb, Mr Andres Metsoja, Mr Meelis Mälberg, Ms Kalle Palling and Ms Terje Trei took part. Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry of the Environment Marku Lamp, Adviser to the Legal Department of the Ministry Merike Laidvee and Chairman of the Management Board of RMK Aigar Kallas were also present. The Free Party Group was represented by a colleague, Külliki Hatter. That's what it looked like. The committee president, Rainer Vakra, noted that the first reading of the draft had been completed on 19 December and that the deadline for amendments was 5 January at 16 a.m. Five amendments came from the Free Party. There were 13 other proposals from forest cooperatives: Rakvere Forest Cooperative, NGO Eesti Metsa Abiks, Ambla Forest Cooperative etc. In total there were seven of these proposals. Külliiki Kübarsepp noted that the proposals of the Free Party concern the use of dividends from the State Forest Management Centre as a whole. The party supports the disposal of nature conservation objects for dividends, but generally does not agree that RMK's income is intended to fill the deficits of the state budget. Therefore, RMK's income should be directed towards its main activity, i.e. forest management. Mr Vakra asked whether these amendments would prevent the State from withdrawing any profits as dividends. Külliiki Hatter confirmed that RMK must retain all revenue. My fellow Member, the Hatter, continued that, in addition, the proposals made by the Free Party concern the subject where further dividends could be directed. They also proposed to change the deadline for the entry into force of the law so that the President could also declare the law correctly. My colleague, Meelis Mälberg, felt that dividends should not remain in the sector and that the state should be able to decide on its assets, including revenue-generating decisions. Otherwise, it will put the state in a very difficult position to put together the state budget. My colleague Andres Metsoja asked whether, according to the proposals of the Free Party, zero dividend income should be taken into account in the future development plan of the RMK Board. Külliik's Hatter replied that it certainly had an impact on forest management as a whole. The criticism has been that the state has improved its ability to manage forest and change the price compared to the private forest owner. It would therefore make sense for the Council to analyse what are more effective tools so that private forest owners are also motivated to manage the forest more. Rainer Vakra was interested in what is understood in the law by these infamous words of 'other duties of the state as laid down in the law'. If you remember, in the last debate, what raised questions here was what are these 'others'. At the Christmas meeting of the Committee on the Environment and the Minister, it was a joke that the minister could buy a new car for it. Of course, it is not only a car that can be bought, a mobile phone and nothing else. Merike Laidvee, adviser to the Legal Department of the Ministry, explained that the law currently in force does not allow RMK to buy land that is protected by nature and therefore an open list has been added. The inclusion of narrow lists in the law is not justified. RMK cannot do anything illegal because all its tasks, activities, etc. are specifically mentioned in § 48 of the Forest Act. Mr Metsoja pointed out that the word 'other' could be omitted from this very construction to 'other task of the state as laid down in the law'. Vice Chancellor Lamp thought it would eliminate flexibility, but in order to avoid misinterpretation, the word 'other' could really be omitted. My colleague Meelis Mälberg stated that it is important to supplement this sentence by specifying which law provides for the task to be carried out. Otherwise, you can also think about the state budget law and use it to cover the state's costs. Councillor Merike Laidvee noted that the proposal is to replace the words 'for the purpose of fulfilling the task of the State as laid down in the Law' with 'for the purpose of fulfilling the task of the State as set out in § 20 of the Nature Protection Act'. So the 'other' should be replaced by 'Article 20 of the Nature Conservation Act' specifically. Paragraph 20 (1) of the Nature Conservation Act states that it is the responsibility of the State to acquire land containing a protected natural object if the owner of that land has submitted an application and if the land meets the relevant criteria. The proposal concerns subsections 2 (2) and (3) of the draft law. My colleague, Kalle Palling, felt that the state-owned company's dividends should not only be used for the implementation of the government programme, but could serve as an example from the Norwegian oil fund, where dividends are invested in the fund for the future. It is important to understand that at one point we will reach the critical limit for both forest and oil shale reserves and then we will not be able to use them so forcefully. In his view, the proposal does not take account of the fact that forest management inevitably generates revenue, but it is also important where dividends are channelled. My colleague Külmiki Kübarsepp noted that RMK also needs resources to manage nature conservation sites. Aigar Kallas, Chairman of the Management Board of RMK, explained that RMK will receive most of the income from forest management and certainly no expectations of the dividend have been presented in advance in the last ten years when making RMK's budget. According to the law, the Ministry of the Environment has provided a standard for the size of the forest to be cut by means of an innovative cutting, and this will be taken into account in forest management. According to the leader of RMK, the forest has so far been managed in such a way that the state has also been able to take dividends. The unwritten rule is that half of the income received is transferred to the state budget and the second part is invested back in the forest. Figuratively speaking, last year, 30 million went to one side and the other. Rainer Vakra asked how RMK manages the management of nature conservation sites. Aigar Kallas replied that management is not required in certain areas, but the conservation rules of the area are certainly based on the restoration of both habitats and swamps. Mr Vakra also noted that the draft list of amendments had been prepared for the sitting, and that was when we began to examine it. The catch was much better here than in the previous draft when the Commission did not support any of the proposals. We were a little different. First amendment: 'Add to the new paragraph 2 (1) of the draft text with the following wording, changing the numbering of the following points. " This is the proposal of these forest cooperatives, 13 forest cooperatives. They said that the second sentence of Paragraph 7 (4) of the Forest Act should be reworded, as the working group on the forestry development plan must have a balanced representation of representatives of ecological, social, cultural and economic interests. We're talking about only one word right now, and that word is 'cultural'. This was the first amendment. Chairman of the commission Rainer Vakra thought that the forest was part of the culture that he, of course, has and could be added to the list. So it was really easy. Mr Mälberg pointed out that the list could be supplemented indefinitely and that it was not necessary to add the word 'cultural' only. Mr Terje Trei added that, if three areas have already been mentioned, there could also be culture there. I thought that if 13 non-profits have proposed this, the word 'cultural' should be added to that list. And Vice Chancellor Lamp explained that the Ministry doesn't mind. The word 'cultural' received consensus in the Commission. So one of the two proposals of forest cooperatives was approved by consensus in the Commission. The following amendments were tabled by the Free Party: Proposal No 2: 'Add to the new point 2 of § 2 of the draft and formulate it as follows: Paragraph 48 (5) is repealed. 'We're talking about dividends. This proposal was decided not to be taken into account. The decision was once again consensual: all the members of the Commission were in favour of it. The next, third, amendment is also linked to dividends. Paragraph 49 (7) (6) is amended and worded as follows: 'According to the annual report. ' Here, the Commission was also consensual: disregard this proposal. I am not going to appoint all the members of the Commission who were in favour of this decision, but everyone was in favour of it. The fourth proposal was again from the Free Party: "To invalidate § 2 (2) of the draft, i.e. to delete the text '§ 54 (2) shall be supplemented by the words 'or any other task of the State as laid down in the law'. ' The Committee on the Environment decided to take this into account in part, and this was once again a consensual decision. Proposal No 5, which I mentioned here earlier: '§ 54 (2) shall be supplemented by the words 'or to carry out the task of the State provided for in § 20 of the Nature Conservation Act' after 'for the purpose'. ' The Committee on the Environment was once again consensual in favour of this. Proposal No 6, deletion text: '§ 63 (1) shall be supplemented by the words 'or any other task of the State as laid down in the law' after 'to obtain'. ' Again, it was decided to take this into account in part and there was a consensus in the Commission. The Commission also decided to propose amendment No 7 concerning § 63 (1) which is supplemented by the words 'or to carry out the task of the State as set out in § 20 of the Nature Conservation Act' after the word 'to become'. (All these proposals relate to what I was talking about at the beginning.) Here too, the decision was once again consensual. Amendment 8: 'amendment to § 2 (5) of the draft (new order (6)) to § 65 additional paragraph 6 of the Forest Act and formulate it as follows: 'the immovable property containing a protected natural object will be acquired by RMK in accordance with the Nature Conservation Act and the procedure established on its basis'. ' The Commission was once again consensually in favour of this. Amendment 9 was made by the Free Party: amend § 3 of the draft and formulate it so that the law enters into force on 1 March. a. It was decided to take this into account in part and once again there was consensus in the Commission. Amendment 10: Delete § 3 of the draft, i.e. delete the text 'the entry into force of the law'. The draft law initially stated that this Act would enter into force on 1 January 2018. Maybe he should have come into force by now. The draft law is intended to enter into force pursuant to § 108 of the Constitution, according to which the law will enter into force on the 10th day following its publication in the Official Journal of the State, unless the law itself provides for a second deadline (i.e. in general terms). As a result of the above, the draft does not provide for an entry into force standard. So the Commission also decided to present this proposal and again it was a consensus. In the end, it was decided to propose the third reading of the draft 560 on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 16 January and to propose the final vote on the draft. That was the conclusion. So one of the two proposals of the forest cooperatives became the parties to the proposals of the consensual and the Free Party received substantive approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U335	Dear waitress, thank you for your detailed summary. Nevertheless, there is at least one question for you. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U336	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Has the Commission been conducting previous discussions, if you have been on the agenda for this draft, on the subject that, as we know, EUR 15 million would be needed to resolve the applications for the transfer of immovable property that have been pending since 2006? What could be the timetable for resolving this problem if RMK's dividend income can now be used to cover the disposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U337	Thank you. That's actually the solution. So far, we had to limit ourselves to the state budget, where money simply didn't exist, and people already died or got tired of waiting. At this rate, this embarrassing story should be resolved in a few years.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U338	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U339	Ladies and gentlemen, Monday's visit to the Committee on the Environment gave me positive energy. This positive energy came first and foremost from the recognition of the leader of RMK, Aigar Kallas, that, in addition to solving the task of a very important country, we opened up the issue of how RMK's dividends could be used as a whole. Above all, we are talking about the fact that we have a very topical nature in society, such attention being paid to it. However, it is also important that the use of these dividends meets the expectations of our society. Last March, there was also a debate in this Chamber on a matter of national importance on forestry, and then it was very clear that our group considered it reasonable that dividends should not be used to patch public budget holes. That is why we also tabled a couple of amendments that would have taken this commitment from both the Minister and the RMK Council. What's the argument? The argument is precisely that it is reasonable to use this dividend income in forest management. I recall that 51% of Estonia is covered with forest, which is managed by 45% by the state itself through the State Forest Management Centre. RMK is now subject to an increase in the obligation to maintain nature conservation land, because we are helping to buy them out from private forest owners from those who wish to. I would like to remind you that this is not automatic, but on the basis of statements. It is also very important that RMK has much easier resources to care for these countries. On the other hand, it gives RMK the opportunity to deal more with damage caused, for example, by logging or transporting raw materials. We are talking, for example, about maintaining infrastructure, i.e. mainly road networks and soil remediation, which also needs a certain resource. In the Commission, we also came up with a possible mid-way solution: if you take out dividend income in a situation where there are good times in the economy, such as now, it could be channelled into some kind of fund, probably into a reserve fund. However, our debate did not come so far that possible 'delaying' solutions could have been formulated, even though this could have been entirely an issue. We are very grateful that we have eliminated this ignorance from the law: the resources of the state agency are no longer used to carry out unpredictable tasks. We tied it to a specific buy-out point for nature conservation. I hope that in the future we will also talk about dividend policy in a wider sense, because we must respectfully stand up for our common property for the assets that have been or have been recognised in the Constitution. We need to maintain these assets for our future generations, whose contact with the forest is best if they go on a hiking trail. We hold on to these values and we hold on to the particularities that we have compared to other countries in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-10_U340	There are no more requests to speak, I will close the negotiations. Ten amendments have been tabled for the 560 and we will examine them together. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on the Environment; the decision of the commission is to take full account. Another amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party and, as a result of § 106 (2) of the Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, the amendment is not to be voted on. The third amendment has also been tabled by the Free Party Group and this amendment is also not subject to the vote pursuant to subsection 106 (2) of our Rules of Procedure and Home Affairs Act. The fourth amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party; the decision of the commission is to take part. The fifth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on the Environment; the decision of the commission is to take full account. The sixth amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party; the decision of the commission is partly taken into account. The seventh amendment has been tabled by the Committee on the Environment; the decision of the commission is to take full account. The eighth amendment has also been tabled by the Committee on the Environment and the decision of the commission is to take full account of the same. The ninth amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party, and the decision of the commission is partly taken into account. The 10th amendment has been tabled by the Committee on the Environment; the decision of the commission is to take full account. The amendments to the 560 draft have been examined. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 560. Second reading is complete. It is also over today's working day in this big hall. I'll see you tomorrow at 10:00. Closure of the sitting at 20:28 p.m.
