ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the 6th working week Tuesday session of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu. As usual, it is possible to pass on drafts and enquiries at the beginning of the sitting. First Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Good guests! There have been some rather heated debates about our nature and our natural environment in this hall. I think that organic farming and its development in Estonia are certainly a necessary topic. If we have merged agricultural and forest land, it can be said that more than half of the land of the Republic of Estonia is 'cool', which is an important sign for our food producers to be able to export well in the world. At the same time, we have received information from the public that support for organic farming is being reduced. This is particularly bad in a situation where producers at one point have obtained confidence that these subsidies will last and have made investments. But even worse, producers have already turned to the Rural Affairs Committee of the Ministry of Rural Affairs and Parliament to show the public that there is actually no word. We therefore have several questions from Minister for Rural Affairs Tarmo Tammele. I'll read them out. What were the unit rates of support for organic farming in the years 2015 to 2018? The three ministries had to find by 1 May 2017 opportunities for funding the organic programme and a form of cooperation. What are the funding opportunities found in cooperation? Jne, et cetera. Members of the Reform Party have joined this inquiry. We are hoping for clear and straightforward answers from the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U3	Next, please, Aivar Chef!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U4	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, It is a great honour for me to hand over the draft law amending the Holidays and Celebrations Act on behalf of all six groups of the Riigikogu. This bill is intended to supplement the Holidays and Deadlines Act with a point that sets 1 October as a national deadline On 1 October 1866 the first law of our public administration entered into force 'Macoggukond Act for the Baltia-mere Kubbermangud. Ria-, Tallinn- and Kura-male'. Thus, on 1 October 2016, 150 years passed since the Estonians and Latvians had the opportunity to organise their own lives for over centuries and to create their own public administration. It was an invaluable school that allowed the creation of the Republic of Estonia and also the restoration of independence. Since 1 October 1990, the local government system was restored in Estonia in terms of self-governing status. The municipality of Muhu and the city of Kuressaare were officially granted self-governing status first. In view of the above, the first day of Estonian self-government took place in the Riigikogu on 4 October 2016. On the day of the municipality, it was noted that Estonian community administration and later local government have been the foundation of the knowledge and experience gained to exercise public power and later to create and restore statehood. The local government needs even more attention from society, and the growing responsibility should be accompanied by recognition and the possibility of using all roads to develop social dialogue and knowledge. The transformation of municipal day into a national anniversary would be an important opportunity to increase the role of municipalities in society and could be better linked to the cooperation and development of the sector. Estonian municipalities deserve their national anniversary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U5	On behalf of the Bureau, I have adopted a draft and an inquiry. The Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing on the basis of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Ladies and gentlemen, it is now time to check the presence. Checking for presence. 82 members of the Riigikogu registered as presently absent 19.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U6	Let's get to today's agenda. Last week we did not finish the first reading of the draft law amending the Riigikogu Election Act initiated by Jüri Adams, Andres Herkel, Artur Talvik, Krista Aru and Monika Haukanõmme. We had Jüri Adams in the chair. Mr. Adams, please! The round of questions was not finished with the question of Helmen Hunt. Helmen Hunter, your turn, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U7	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! First of all, I would like to thank you very much for last week's presentation and an interesting overview, which called for a great deal of thought. I am convinced that in 2023 the Riigikogu elections will not take place the way they will be held in 2019. But at the moment, the time to introduce changes seems rather inadequate. I also very much support the fact that the previous composition takes decisions on the next composition, as well as the local councils taking decisions on the income and salary of the next composition. I therefore ask: would it not be reasonable for the Riigikogu elected in 2019 and the government formed immediately in the first year to start discussions on which regions and principles will be adopted to the elections in 2023?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U8	Thank you. What we are discussing now is the question of the fact that, as it has become clear afterwards, a mistake was made in its time, during the last Supreme Council, by the fact that a list of electoral circles was written in the law. It has remained there so far, and by now, it is evident that there are many shortcomings. This should be changed from time to time, but changing it in the Riigikogu means reaching an agreement between the political forces of the government coalition that dominates the Riigikogu, which currently does not exist. So my main point is this: it is not the problem now that we have too little time until the next elections, but the problem is that there is no agreement between the three powers of the ruling coalition on how large the electoral districts should be in the future. Most of those who hope to be re-elected like the current, their customary electoral system. People usually apply in the same constituency where they have applied in the past. I would like to reiterate that I do not think it is too late to deal with this issue, but even more could indeed be dealt with for the 2023 elections. If the next Riigikogu comes together and this question has not been solved for them, of course, every new Riigikogu can also review the decisions of previous Riigikogus, then, as you know, the dynamics are generally such that the first year of Riigikogu membership usually goes to so-called inhabitation, there are always very many new members, and there are no fundamental initiatives from the Riigikogu during the first year. Initiatives could come from the ruling coalition as government drafts, but we do not know what government is going to be and whether it is willing to act. It is typical, at least for another government in the current Riigikogu, that there is no significant intention to change. Rather, it is the desire to preserve what we have so that we can move forward in the old way. So it is quite likely that the next Riigikogu will not come to future issues until the second half of the working time, but maybe the last year. In general, these things tend to stay on top of the end of working hours, although theoretically it would be very nice to get into it right away, but life usually doesn't turn out that way.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U9	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U10	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! What does your analysis show which model is good in a small country the size of Estonia, for example, six or 15 electoral districts? Should we have many or fewer electoral circles? What kind of party system could the circuit sizes be conducive to developments in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U11	I repeat here the same idea that Estonia has now developed a political system like that in our neighbouring countries in Finland and the Scandinavian countries, but also in Latvia and Lithuania, that there is not a two-party system, there is not a three-party system, but there are many political parties in Parliament. The fact that we had delegates from the four electoral lists in the meantime was probably quite unusual and hardly the case in the future. We now have six political parties here, and I wouldn't be surprised if there were seven political parties here next time. If you look at the countries mentioned above, six and seven are the average figures of the number of political parties elected to Parliament in these countries. The conclusion is that it would be good if a minimum of seven mandates were to be allocated in each constituency, in which case at least theoretically, it would be possible for each of the seven political parties who receive a representative parliament to have the possibility of having one representative elected from each electoral district. This would be better for voters who could relate to a particular person who came to the Riigikogu. I would rather say that seven could be added to another mandate, so there would be eight. So if we take the minimum number of mandates from seven to eight, which should be in each constituency, then it turns out that there should be a maximum of 12 to 13 electoral districts in Estonia. If you look at Estonia before the war and now, you can see that the number of electoral circles has all moved between 10 and 12. Ten electoral districts were in the Republic of Estonia in the 1920s and during the restored independence there have been two variants: 11 and 12 electoral districts. So this seems to be a normal and generally acceptable solution to go towards. That's the question of the lower limit. The question of the upper limit is a little more difficult to discuss. One of the main problems or dangers of the electoral system used in Estonia is that the substantively proportional selection is replaced, I would say, by the election of the leader in the electoral circles. Only the first candidate for the list is important in each constituency, and the rest are not very important. When the first candidate has received many votes, he draws others with his own votes. This, in my opinion, is not a good result in electoral psychology. If we were to undergo such a reform so that only six or seven electoral circles would remain in the Riigikogu elections, in which case the entire electoral technique would probably become quite different than it is now, it would become more central to the image of the party, which is anyway the most important element that has developed over the last 12 years, and this would be even less related to specific candidates.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U12	Next questioner, Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U13	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! You knew very vividly and accurately what coalition parties would say about the electoral circles. I expect you to have a specific number, with and without a twist, that has already been agreed by the united opposition. Please tell me how many circuits it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U14	There is no united opposition at the moment. I don't know there's been any such negotiations. If they have occurred between the leaders of the opposition groups, then I have not been informed of them. I am also not quite sure what the position of the Group of the Reform Party of the largest opposition group is or whether it exists at all. I can only assure you that, at the beginning of this parliamentary period, when the coalition led by the Reform Party was in power, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs did indeed have an informal working group. It was not led by the chairman of the committee, Kalle Laane, but was led by Martin Kukk, a very energetic member of the Reform Party at the time. There were a number of issues that were being discussed. One was also what we are dealing with today, namely the change in the electoral system. I do not know exactly how this happened, but I assume that, on the initiative of Mr Kuke, the people of the electoral service of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu were asked for alternatives and three possible future options were obtained from them. One average was a ten - circuit system, perhaps six or seven circuits, but there was also a system with smaller circles, with perhaps 15 circuits. But all this work stopped as a result of a change of government. Mr Kukk left the Riigikogu and no one has taken the same intensively to carry this work forward. These are the only things I can tell you right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U15	Mr. Adams, there are no more questions for you. Thank you. The Member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Helmut Hallemaa, will make a co-report on behalf of the Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U16	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, I will present a summary of what has happened in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. This thing has shifted from next week, Thursday of last week to today. In order not to change my presentation very much, I will begin with good wishes and, first of all, wish you a good year of yellow country dog. Last Thursday, when this issue was on the agenda, according to the Oriental calendar, the beginning of the year was a country dog. On 6 February, the Commission held a debate on this issue, or a draft law amending the circles, which the Free Party had tabled. This draft law was put into procedure on 4 December last year. To be correct with regard to history and to make sure everyone in this Chamber understands what happened, I would add that, in fact, in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the debate on possible changes in the electoral circles had not been interrupted, as the previous speaker said in reply to the question. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs already at the end of last year and, according to my memory, this year actually addressed the issue of electoral circles. It came on the agenda as an earlier proposal from the Commission or as a request to the national electoral service and to the electoral commission. Both had proposed their own options, three options. In my opinion, as a very bad practice, they reached the media first, but it cannot be avoided in this IT age, because the Commission's protocols are public and that is where the issue came up. In fact, this issue was already addressed and during the course of the discussion, the Free Party presented its draft law. Jüri Adams, in the Commission and here in Saalisk, dealt with this issue very widely, even significantly more widely than this draft law envisaged. On a number of issues, the Commission's work has already been brought to this Chamber. On 6 February, Mr Pomerants chaired the committee and Jüri Adams, Helmut Hallemaa, Jaak Madison, Kalle Laane, Mart Nutt, Mikhail Korb, Rein Randver and Tiit Terik attended the meeting. Arto Aas and Lauri Luik were absent. At the meeting of the Commission, of course, there were also Commission advisers and Arne Koitmäe, Deputy Head of the National Election Service, was invited. Following the presentation by Jüri Adams, Commissioner Mart Nutt stated that the subject was important and necessary and that the approach was also sympathetic. This opinion was shared by several other members of the Commission. Mart Nutt concluded that it is regrettable that when the Republic of Estonia was restored, the way of resistance was simpler when the districts were transformed into counties and village and city councils into independent Estonian municipalities and cities. But I can't imagine how serious it would have been if we had started changing borders in one place, another place or another. There was quite a lot of interest in the change in the number of mandates for specific constituencies and the possible change in the number of voters. Kalle Laane asked about Hiiumaa, West and Saaremaa. Both Arne Koitmäe and Jüri Adams commented that the number of mandates in the 2019 elections in this constituency would probably not change. One mandate is likely to shift from South Estonia to Northern Estonia, probably from the joint constituency of Tartu and Jõgeva counties to Harju and Raplamaa. It was certainly an interesting analysis by the chairman of the committee, Marko Pomerants, of how the number of mandates in the electoral circles will change if we do not change the distribution and boundaries of the electoral circles by 2027. He pointed out that the number of mandates would increase from 9 to 11, from 12 to 14 in Haaberst, North Tallinn and Kristiine, and from 8 to 9 in Mustamäe and Nõmme, in Central City, Lasnamäe and Pirita. The biggest change would, of course, take place in Harju and Raplamaa, where this figure would rise from 14 to 16. Practically all other constituencies would lose. In Hiiumaa, Lääne and Saaremaa, this number would fall from 6 to 5; in Lääne-Viru County the number of electoral mandates would remain the same and Ida-Virus would fall from 6 to 5 so that two Virumaa would receive 10 mandates in total; in Järva and Viljandi County the number would fall from 7 to 6; in Jõgeva and Tartu County the number of mandates would fall from 8 to 7; in Põlva, Valga and Võru County the number would fall from 8 to 7; and in Pärnu the number would fall from 9 to 8. As a geographer, I pointed out in the Commission what is logical, after all, this was later pointed out in my question by Mikhail Korb, that life really is that in the next elections, quite soon, just over half the ambassadors will be elected in Northern Estonia, because this is the trend that more Estonians and Estonians live in Tallinn and Harju County. This process has not been reversed; rather, it will continue. That is why there is probably a two-fold distribution in the size of the electoral circles. This is now a non-Commission opinion, but I think that we should probably take a different approach and simply make the northern Estonian districts smaller. Lääne-Viru highlighted Mikhail Korb in the committee as a very good example, where the ambassadors led by Marko Pomerants, the chairman of the committee, are very strongly associated with their district, and they stand for this district. In fact, the electoral district was made semi-artificially in its time and for one person. We all know who it is. So if we can combine this constituency with the other, we can get a perfectly normal circuit for Northern Estonia, where the larger electoral districts are. Last week, when I asked questions, I hoped to shorten the reading and presentation of today's Commission minutes. I personally think, and I also asked about the fact that changing electoral circles and their boundaries is not an easy mathematical process. In fact, both socio-economic and economic geography should be responsible for this. It is therefore not good to randomly assemble electoral circles. In fact, all constituencies represent their region. Although we are small, there are many different regions in Estonia. The elected ambassadors should represent their region, the issues arising in the region should be more similar or similar. Mikhail Korb also pointed out that he was personally in favour of increasing the number of constituencies. This has been supported in the past by a number of people in the Commission, including myself, when we discussed the issue of the circles. Increasing the number of electoral circles would much better link the candidate to his or her district, to the representation of his or her district. I was interested in when the number of electoral mandates ahead would go down or what number of voters would be used as a basis for the allocation of mandates. Arne Koitmäe pointed out that electoral districts were likely to be formed as of November. This issue itself is very thorough and very broad, in the context of the discussion of similar electoral issues, it has been mentioned in this Chamber and also in the Commission that it is not an ad-hoc issue. The very wide spectrum of questions, the length of questions from wall to wall, shows that this should be dealt with in greater depth. It is therefore clear that in such a short period of time, which remains until the 2019 elections, which are already on 3 March, practically a year from now, major, fundamental changes are not possible. Finally, there was the issue of citizens living abroad. Although there are many Estonian citizens living outside Estonia, there is still an extremely small proportion of them, 3000 to 3500 people. I personally think, and I thought, in the Commission too, that they are not largely in one district or another; they are more or less distributed in the same proportion as the number of circles. Now for procedural decisions. We decided to bring the matter to the Chamber today (consensually) and to appoint a waitress in front of you (as well as consensually). The proposal was to reject the draft, which received 7 votes in favour: Helmut Hallemaa, Mikhail Korb, Kalle Laanet, Mart Nutt, Marko Pomerants, Rein Randver and Tiit Terik were in favour of rejecting the draft, opposed by Jüri Adams and Jaak Madison, with no abstentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U17	A good waitress, Andres Herkel, would like to clarify something. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U18	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Several times a discussion was held here, for example, that the IRL would support six electoral circles across Estonia, the Central Party 15 and someone from 12 electoral circles. Were these figures also reflected in the Commission's discussions, or have they come from somewhere else? What exactly is this consensus mission of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs or the search for a solution to this issue? You're just rejecting a good bill right now. So how do you figure this out? In my opinion, it will be manageable even during the forthcoming elections, but at least this composition could reach a solution to the 2023 elections. You don't point that way as a waitress, I don't see it. You come on behalf of the Commission to say that we are rejecting the draft. The problem is and that is not the solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U19	Thank you for your question. As rapporteur for the Commission, I bring here the Commission's debate on this matter. In my opinion, I dealt with the subject even more widely. I don't know if this is right or not, but I'm not representing my views here. I have represented my views in the Commission by asking questions and speaking. I have considered this a good practice, because if I am a waitress, I can say that I represent these views. I have also spoken here on these issues and asked questions. So I guess that's where I come up with my point of view on this subject. Good Andres, actually, there is 101 opinions on this subject in this Chamber, I think. It's not really an easy subject. I pointed out that the range of questions and answers was very wide. I liked the position and question of my associate Helmen Hunter. He said very nicely that this topic could be dealt with by the next composition for the next term. However, I do not think it is good or reasonable to make such a major and total change a year before the elections. I knowingly said that the elections were already on 3 March 2019, in substance, given that there are, of course, congratulations to Estonia and Estonians about the anniversary of the Republic! The year's election is the end of the year. I am still in this position, as I said in the Commission, here too, and I reflected this view on my issues, that mathematical, computational making in the electoral circles by means of IT solutions is not the solution. There was one thing I didn't bring out. Just coming to Mikhail Korb's hall reminded me of that. In fact, it was also mentioned in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that counties are, as if, no longer an indicator, the counties should not be taken into account. I'm totally different. Now, the part of your question that the Commission is doing. The Commission actually started this subject, I may be wrong in time, I think it was in October-November last year. It was also very high in the media, because the minutes of the electoral commission and the electoral services meetings were public and this information reached the media before the Constitutional Commission. We also had an agreement in the Commission that we would continue to work on this issue. In the meantime, you came in with your bill. So I think that this issue needs to be continued. Other options have been proposed as solutions. In addition to the three proposed options, which included 7, 10 and 15 electoral districts, there are in fact still fewer variants. At least for Viljandi, I think this solution, which has been on the table, but which has not reached the media, is not good, because then Viljandi, which acts as a county, will be chopped away. There's still a lot of country-wide joint-making and functioning stuff out there. On yesterday's day of self-government, it became clear to several local government leaders that it is more important that the county self-government associations act as county directors and development managers. This is an issue that people on the ground should take up and take up an important role there. I think that the electoral district should not go against the county division very badly.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U20	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U21	Thank you, Honourable Chairman. Respectable waitress! Indeed, you gave a very thorough overview of the questions and answers provided at the Commission meeting, but I do not think that it became clear what were still the shortcomings of this particular draft, which led the Commission's majority to propose that it be excluded from the procedure as to why this draft is not, in the opinion of the majority of the Commission, a basis for further discussion. These weaknesses or shortcomings, I'm sorry, didn't sound very clear to me. Can you bring them back up?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U22	Can't, because that wasn't reflected in the protocol, and that wasn't really how these things were brought up. [[Laughing.]] Very sharp things emerged during the speeches, as did this Chamber. They were probably the cause of these things and probably the fact that this issue was still being dealt with and dealt with further. After all, the Commission was of the opinion that if we bring out the different options, we will also come to the hall with the Commission's draft, but this is not a thing that can be proposed and finally resolved for these elections. This was, in fact, on the table several times in previous Commission meetings, many times it was mentioned and said in this Chamber as well. So I don't know. I have also been to a number of other committees, and I do not recall that in some committees the draft has been analysed in such a way that the specific advantages or disadvantages of the proposed draft are discussed. The subject and its importance will still be analysed and then the vote will take place. Yesterday, Jüri Raidla's presentation at the celebration of the rule of law 100 proved that even a vote is actually taking place in court, although this may not be the best solution. So this time the vote also revealed the truth.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U23	Andres Ammas, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U24	Thank you, Honourable Chairman. Respectable waitress! Please correct me if I misunderstood you now. I have come to the conclusion from your comment that the draft is, as it were, not very wrong, but at the moment, in the opinion of the majority of the Members of the Commission, it is not practical or necessary to address this issue. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U25	No, I don't know. I'll tell you this: if you want, I can tell you my comments later on why I did it. However, the Commission has analysed this draft; it has gone through it, after discussing the issue of the electoral community on several occasions. We will certainly continue to work on the issue of electoral circles, I think, in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and also in the Chamber. As a result of the vote, we have reached where we are now. The Commission's proposal was and is to reject the draft (vote 7: 2).
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U26	Next thing you know, Keit is asking for Pentus-Rosimannus. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U27	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! You also mentioned citizens living outside Estonia in your presentation. My question concerns them. Was the Commission talking about the idea of forming a "foreign Estonian constituency" for citizens living outside Estonia? It is true that, between the elections, those people who actually care about Estonia in the same way and who are interested in speaking in it are often out of attention. We ourselves pay less attention to them than we could actually do between the elections. Setting up a separate constituency could help to improve this situation. Was it mentioned in the Commission, and has it been mentioned before in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U28	Thank you. So much was said this time when I asked myself about it at the end of the debate, and it was also mentioned in Jüri Adams's comment. Let's say as an exchange of information, we dealt with it. When the Committee on Constitutional Affairs previously dealt with the various options in the electoral circles, it was quite comprehensively discussed. Yes, there are so many Estonian citizens living outside Estonia that they form one electoral district, but the trouble has been that they have so far been extremely inactive in the elections, of which 3,500 have been elected in the last elections. It's a magnitude. So that would be a problem. Today, they will be distributed to the constituencies from which they have ever left or where their relatives have lived. The subject certainly exists and has been dealt with in the past. The opinion of the electoral committee and the people of the electoral service was rather that the 'linking' of these people is very complicated and that is why the current system is so structured. But the more serious issue is that these people should come home, and we should do everything we can to bring these people back home and they should come back to Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U29	Good waitress, colleagues don't have any more questions for you. Now it's time for a negotiation. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U30	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! After this last presentation, I cannot fail to mention that there is probably laziness, comfort and inadequacy in the keywords that apply to the current composition of the Riigikogu if we cannot solve this problem. We have not achieved today that we have been able to solve the problems of the electoral circles in the key to the next elections in 2019 in such a way as to make this distribution more logical, clearer and more responsive to the idea of the electoral system we are using. I'll get the facts again. In our largest constituency of Harju and Raplamaa, 14 mandates will be allocated; soon the number of mandates will be 15 already. There are only five mandates in the smallest district of Lääne-Virumaa. The number of residents in these circles is 131333 and 45402, the number of electoral residents, I specify. These scissors have gotten really big and only get bigger. Due to the withdrawal of a large part of the territory from Läänemaa, the electoral district of Saare, Hiiu and Läänemaa is about to fall to the limit of five mandates. So all these answers on behalf of Mr Hallemaa's committee still make the initiator of the draft very gloomy, because it seems to me that there is no real consensus. In fact, this consensus mission, which I asked about, does not work between political parties, and the Commission has not been able or really wanted to look for it by postponing the solution to the problem. Now there are two problems that I want to mark and which correspond to the content and point of this draft. First of all, the fact that it is not really possible to carry out circles of a reasonably comparable size within or on the basis of the current counties. The boundaries of the counties changed a little as a result of administrative reform, but it may not even be so important. Just this current distribution and these sets, how the counties are joined together, are sufficiently different. One answer actually was given by the Commission rapporteur here. I think, indeed, that once we reunite Lääne-Virumaa and Ida-Virumaa as an electoral district, we can have a district of reasonable size. With regard to the problem of western, island and Hiiumaa, we obviously cannot achieve this on the basis of the boundaries of existing counties here, but, if you think of the former historical regions of Läänemaa, which are currently either part of Pärnu or Rapla County, these differences can be substantially levelled out. However, the second problem that this bill sets out, and which I think is very important and remarkable, is whether it is right at all that we in this Chamber, as representatives of political parties, so-called interested subjects, make decisions on the number of circles and mandates, or whether it would be more reasonable for this decision to be made within the prescribed framework by someone else. We have proposed that the decision be made by the State Chancellery, listening also to the proposal of the Republic Election Commission, and that this decision be made within these limits, so that the number of mandates in the district is equal to 8 to 13. It may also be 7 to 12, in which case some of the emptying of the current circles might remain for a while, but in principle this distribution should be in line with our electoral system. In such a case, there would be a circle in Estonia of 10 to 11 people. If we are also going to talk about the constituency of the external Estonia, we can add one. However, the framework would be presented and the resolution of this particular issue could be left entirely to specialists, so that there would not be a debate here every time, which the Riigikogu will not manage in any way at a reasonable time before the next elections. For the short development of my last subject, I ask for more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U31	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U32	There's not that much. Local involvement of ambassadors. This is one of the important issues that I still want to draw down. Yes, speaking of ideal, we have all swore an oath to the Republic of Estonia, we represent people all over Estonia, but especially we represent those voters who have sent us here from a particular constituency. In this sense, the number of mandates in the district and the number of electoral circles are not minor elements in order for this link to function sensibly. This is where I really want to criticise when someone has the idea of bringing the number of electoral circles in Estonia to, for example, six or seven, or even more if they want to do the same electoral circle in terms of the election of the Riigikogu as a whole. The question above was about the election of the European Parliament, so it makes perfect sense that Estonia as a whole is one district. But if there are few circles in terms of election of the Riigikogu, then the regional affiliation of the ambassadors will be the first to suffer. The second thing that comes with this is that the opportunity for local leaders, local government leaders and community leaders to be elected clearly diminishes. Rather, those who are so-called all-Estonian, nationwide media stars will have this opportunity. This connection with the electorate and the particular region we already have maybe a little too weak and fragile. In any case, I think, as regards the planning of the borders of the electoral circles, as well as the number of mandates, that there could be so many mandates and elected ambassadors from one circuit that a person who is more than average interested in politics could remember the faces and names of those elected. These are important issues in order to maintain the link between the ambassador and the region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U33	On behalf of the Centre Party Group, Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U34	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, Two little comments to keep the mistake from spreading. The question of island, western and Hiiumaa is not correct in the sense that there really was a very large shift in territory between Pärnumaa and Läänemaa, but this transition from population to population was not so great, the number of electoral districts this time remains the same. Andres, you brought out one thing, or Ida-Viru and Lääne-Viru, which wasn't altered by the system or by anything else. If you add them up, there are now 11 candidates, and even by 2027 Marko Pomerants calculates ten, so this is a perfectly normal circuit. The question is Harjumaa, Raplamas and Tallinn. In fact, there are two Estonias, as has been said. Last thing. You've told me many times that you don't like my answers. Today, the Home and Rules of Procedure Act is under way. Make corrections there to make it possible for the Commission's rapporteur to be present here in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U35	The political groups have no further requests. The commission has proposed to reject the draft 555 at first reading. We need to vote this through. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting against the draft proposal of the commission 555 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. The rejection was supported by 63 and was opposed by 9 members of the Riigikogu. Draft 555 has been rejected at first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U36	Today's second item is the second reading of the draft of the Riigikogu decision 'According to the 'Transport Development Plan 2014-2020' initiated by the Government of the Republic. The presentation is made by Erki Savisaar, member of the Economic Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U37	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed this issue on 12 February. By that time, one amendment had arrived, which was editorial. This was done by a spell checker, a language editor, and it was taken into account in a consensual way. After that, the Commission, as well as in a consensual manner, decided to propose that this draft be put to the final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U38	You have at least one question. Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U39	Thank you, Mr President. Very respectable waitress! This question could perhaps have been asked at first reading, and that was what we were talking about. Is the partial listing of shares on the stock exchange of the Port of Tallinn primarily a fiscal policy measure in order to fulfil the naked promises, or is it a sign of the changed values of the Centre Party?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U40	Thank you. It could be answered briefly that we did not deal with it that way in the Commission. But the idea of public companies going to the stock market is still above all to increase transparency in their management. The rules of the stock exchange are much more transparent to the public than the existing rules applicable to public enterprises. Of these nuances we are talking about in the context of another draft amending these rules. This will, of course, give the people of Estonia the opportunity to have participation in important Estonian companies.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U41	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U42	Good manager! Good waitress! Can I conclude by saying that perhaps this bill is the first opportunity to make public shares so that the Estonian people can be a shareholder in their companies?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U43	Thank you. Well, let's say that an Estonian person can always have a participation in Estonian companies and if an Estonian person does a business, he is a member of this company. We are talking about companies created by the state. Indeed, public enterprises have so far not allowed the participation of the people of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U44	Next thing you know, Sven Sester's gonna ask. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U45	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress, you are the so-called main rapporteur for this draft on behalf of the Commission. I was just about to ask a question from Toomas Kivimägi. I remember that the Reform Party has been one of the leading parties here in Estonia for 17 years. Do you have any examples for the last ten years, some company has gone to the stock market or not? Maybe you'll comment.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U46	Thank you. I don't remember any company that went to the stock market. Even in this development plan it was written that, for example, the Port of Tallinn must 100% belong to the state and there is no way to deal with it in any other way. We all remember how it went. But I don't think they've done anything maliciously. It happens. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U47	Toomas Kivimägi, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U48	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I recall that Kristen Michal was the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications when the process of possible privatisation or placing of state companies on the stock market was initiated. I dare say that in fact, the continuation and result of this is that the Port of Tallinn is partially listed on the stock exchange. But my second question is driven by your answer to my first question: what other public enterprises are opaque?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U49	Thank you. In the last few days, there are still all sorts of interesting suggestions, sometimes completely reasonable. But the longer list of companies that are still on the stock market is coming up in the context of another bill. This has nothing to do with this development plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U50	The second question is also Aivar Kokal. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U51	Good manager! Good waitress! Whether this draft was discussed in the committee was that we have pension funds in the hands of several private companies in Estonia and their productivity is very low. Perhaps it would make sense to make a public pension fund and thereby privatise the shares that would belong to all the people of Estonia. Productivity would be guaranteed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U52	Thank you. This issue was not discussed in the Commission, but I think that pension funds could really invest more in Estonian companies and even businesses in Estonia instead of using shares from abroad. Then we could use that money more in our economy.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U53	The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. Thank you, good waitress. The lead committee has also tabled one amendment to the draft, but before we go to it, it is possible to negotiate. At least one group has expressed its wish. Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U54	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I was also on the floor as a representative of the party at first reading, and before we go to the final vote, maybe I'll mark a few more points in a few words. I think, as I said at first reading, we are now on the verge of a big step. In my opinion, this brief debate, which was between the draft waitress and the members of the Riigikogu in this Chamber, eloquently showed where we are headed. It is precisely the fact that, in fact, no public enterprise has entered the stock market in the last ten years. I think that today, by taking these steps, by changing this transport development plan, we will not direct companies to the stock market, but we will give the opportunity to make these changes. In this sense, it is a historic moment. I think it certainly has something to do with the parties' vision for the future. Of course, different political parties have different views as to whether there should be more or less country, whether the state should own businesses or, on the contrary, whether it should have as little ownership as possible. IRL has been of the opinion that, in the case of corporate ownership, we should still talk about the fact that if there are really clear security needs, if the public interest prevails, these arguments should actually prevail when deciding whether the state is going to acquire one or the other company. In this sense, I find it very welcome that we are in a situation where the Port of Tallinn is about to go to the stock market, that we are in a situation where a subsidiary of Eesti Energia, which is active on the renewable energy market, is going to the stock market, that we are in a situation where the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications is preparing for the possible sale of the participation of Estonian Roads, and that we are in a situation where the possible sale of EVR Cargo's stake is being analysed. These are all the issues that have been put on the table with the last coalition agreement. I would see a wider list, but I think that this agreement, which was reached at that moment, is, in any case, a step forward from the previous period of stagnation. So I strongly recommend voting in favour of the decision to amend what we have here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U55	Please, Toomas Stone Mountain! As long as Thomas comes to the remote, I recall that all members of the Riigikogu can take the floor at second reading. So here you go!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U56	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! So that there is no doubt, I say that the Reform Party Group will certainly support this draft decision. We are a liberal party, and we believe that the state certainly does not have to control everything; we believe that the state should perhaps have much less control than it actually does today. However, I also want to say that placing state-owned companies or their shares on the stock market is not the only way to privatise state-owned companies, there are other methods that have actually been implemented in the past. So this is certainly not the first state-owned company in the last ten years, which will be so-called privatised. At present, 28 to 33% of it is being privatized, with the idea of placing this part on the stock market. But I will say once again that listing shares on the stock market is actually only one option when we are talking about privatisation. The second thing I want to say is that when Aivar Kokk said here that it could become like an Estonian public share, it is certainly worth noting that there are still two or, to be very precise, three options in the case of shares. One way is that the stock price is moving up. The other option, let's not forget, is that the stock price is going down. The third is, of course, that the stock price stays at the same level. Are you recommending the purchase of shares in the Port of Tallinn today? This is completely incomprehensible and incomprehensible, because we do not know what the subscription price for the share of the Port of Tallinn is. This is not the least of the reproach on today's government, because it has not yet been reproved, but it would clearly be premature to make recommendations on whether or not to buy the share without knowing the subscription price of the share. Maybe that was actually perhaps the most important message today that had to be said. Of course, there are a number of positive examples of the primary issues of certain shares, which have produced good results, the stock price has moved up. But once again, the stock price can go up and down and stay put. That depends on two things today. First of all, once again, what the subscription price for the share of the Port of Tallinn will be. Secondly, it depends, of course, on what economic environment will be as a whole and what the business activities and business plan of the Port of Tallinn will be. It should not be forgotten that the state will remain a major shareholder of the Port of Tallinn even after this privatisation, i.e. a minimum of 67% will remain in the state. So here's one risk factor, the third risk factor, actually. This is what decisions the state will take as a major shareholder of the Port of Tallinn. This is also one of the very important components that must be taken into account when placing shares in this company on the stock market. But once again: the Reform Party Group will certainly support this draft. We have every reason to believe that the partial listing of shares in the stock exchange at the Port of Tallinn, 28 to 33%, is a reasonable and good decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U57	The members of the Riigikogu have no more wishes for words. We can now examine the amendment. As I mentioned, an amendment to the draft decision has been made by the commission itself and has taken full account of it itself. It is a draft decision and, at second reading, the draft decision will be finalized. Let's start preparing it. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the amendment of the Riigikogu decision 'According to the 'Transport Development Plan 2014 to 2020' by the Government of the Republic, draft 573. Please take a stand and vote. There were 58 votes in favour and 4 members of the Riigikogu against. The draft has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U58	Today's third item is the draft Act amending the Emergency Act, the Tax Administration Act and the State Defence Penalty Penalty Act 571 initiated by the Government of the Republic. We have a second reading ahead of us. The report will be presented by Johannes Kert, Member of the National Defence Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U59	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! For the 571 bill, I have the following to report. The Government of the Republic initiated the draft on 8 January. The first reading of the draft was completed on 24 January. No amendments were received by the deadline of 7 February at 5.15 p.m. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before submitting it to second reading at its meeting on 12 and 15 February, which resulted in three linguistic amendments to § 1. These improvements are underlined in the text of the second reading of the draft. Officials of the Ministry of Defence supported the linguistic improvements of the National Defence Commission. At first reading, I did not reply to Erki Savisaar's question about the undertaking's obligation to assign to national defence posts necessary for the provision of a generous vital service. Through the Ministry of Defence, we received the following explanation from the Ministry of the Interior responsible for ensuring the provision of vital services. The obligation to rethink its activities in the absence of significant staff has been a legal requirement for companies providing vital services since 2009. This draft clarifies that if an undertaking wishes to designate certain jobs as defence-related jobs, it must also mention this in the risk analysis. There is no direct obligation for an undertaking to duplicate teams. It is the responsibility of the undertaking to ensure the functioning of the service even in the absence of staff essential for the provision of the service. Returning to the draft provisions, I say that the draft is very important in the light of a broad approach to national defence. By wide-ranging, I also mean internal security, i.e. ensuring the continuity of vital services. At its meeting on 15 February 2018, the National Defence Committee unanimously approved the text of the second reading and the explanatory memorandum. At its meeting on 12 February 2018, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus that the draft would be submitted for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 20 February. At the same meeting, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus that the Riigikogu would be invited to stop the second reading of the draft. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U60	Good waitress, the members of the Riigikogu have no questions for you. Now it's time for a negotiation. There's no wish for words. As no amendments were tabled, the second reading of draft 571 has been completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U61	Our fourth item today is the draft Act on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on the Accommodation of Data and Information Systems, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 563. Urve Palo, Minister of Enterprise and Information Technology, will make a presentation on behalf of the Government of the Republic. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U62	Good afternoon, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Estonia needs critical data and services to be backed up outside its territory in order to ensure digital continuity and an additional guarantee of statehood, provided that immunity is guaranteed for the data and servers in the data centre. On 3 September 2015, the Government of the Republic approved the concept of the State Cloud and its implementation action plan, which includes the establishment of a data embassy as one of its actions. In autumn 2016, the Republic of Estonia and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg signed a MoU expressing their willingness to establish a data embassy between the two countries. On 15 June 2017, the Government of the Republic approved an agreement between Estonia and Luxembourg on the accommodation of data and information systems. On 20 June 2017, the Prime Ministers signed an external agreement. So the implementation of this MOU and all this activity has been going on for years and has taken place under the leadership of several governments. As a final step, it is necessary to ratify the agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on the accommodation of data and information systems in the Riigikogu. The Luxembourg Parliament has already approved the agreement, which it did last December. An extension of the state cloud, through which data and services can be backed up or, where necessary, operated in a secure data centre outside the territorial boundaries of the country, is understood as an extension of the state cloud. Thus, the main objective of the data embassy is to ensure the digital continuity of the country and to be able to operate systems where necessary and to restore data on the basis of externally backed versions. The concept as a whole is novel and similar national systems for hosting data have not yet been put into practice. This is the first data embassy and this solution will be piloted, but there will also be a network of data embassies in different countries in the future. At the same time, it should be said that although there has never been a transnational data embassy before, several international organisations in Luxembourg, including the European Commission, are backing up their data, so that organisations have done so. The additional reserve resource, or data centre, located in Luxembourg is entirely under the control of the Republic of Estonia, which would be subject to the same provisions as the physical embassies of Estonia, including immunity. When the Vienna Convention applies to embassies, it was necessary to conclude a new transnational agreement in international law to obtain similar legal protection in an electronic environment, which essentially guarantees the integrity of Estonian data and precludes the Luxembourg authorities from operating in the data embassy. The guarantees offered by Luxembourg include, inter alia, the immunity of server premises, equipment and data, compliance of the physical security of the data centre with NATO security requirements, the exemption from local rental and property taxes and the same immunity and diplomatic privileges as the physical embassy. Luxembourg has proved to be the most appropriate choice since they have high-security data centres owned by the state, certified at Tier 4 level (not available in Estonia), and Luxembourg is also prepared to guarantee diplomatic privileges for Estonian data and information systems. As a result of the ratification of the agreement, the national data centre of Luxembourg can accommodate data and critical databases that are important for ensuring the continuity of the Estonian state, which in turn increases the security of the Estonian digital society and the quality of the accommodation of data. A working group has been working together to map the data, according to which such databases should certainly be duplicated outside, primarily the Treasury Information System, the Taxpayers' Register, the Pension Insurance Register, the e-file, the Real Estate Register, the Business Register, the State Gazette, the Population Register, the Register of Identity Documents and the Land Register. This list may not be final, it is such a preliminary assessment. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme or measures coming under this item, and any other expenditure on technical and administrative assistance not involving public authority tasks outsourced by the Commission under ad hoc service contracts. That amount shall cover the rent. Funds have been allocated from structural resources to accommodate the premises of the data embassy and this is a one-off cost. The technical solution will be developed by the Registries and Information Systems Centre in the first half of this year. It was a brief review of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U63	Good minister! There are some questions for you. Krista Aru starts. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U64	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Madam Minister, for introducing this solution and this agreement. I have a question, first of all, to which you yourself referred. Data relating to the continuity and continuity of the Estonian state will be transmitted to the data embassy. Is and under what conditions would it be possible to transfer data in the form of registers or any other digital form in the future? Who's gonna decide that?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U65	This is decided by the Republic of Estonia, so to speak, and by the committee set up for this purpose. If you ask who these committee members are exactly, I don't have that list, but basically the authorities will decide. There's a lot more databases to accommodate than I've read right now. It was such a primary assessment, which are the most critical collections. The size of the server space is enough to put more servers and more data in it. So we're going to start with what I listed, and if there's anything more to put forward, why not? That's what there's room for.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U66	Next thing you know, Thomas is asking for Stone Mountain. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U67	Thank you, Mr President. Very honourable Minister! I am very pleased that, in a short period of time today, this is already the second draft, which actually started during the previous government. Taavi Kõivas has been very well aware of this issue and it is very good that this bill has arrived here in Parliament today. All I'm asking is that technical equipment needs maintenance at some point. A completely human question: who is the specialist who is doing the possible maintenance of these servers there? Is this a person posted from Estonia, or is there a very reliable, perhaps Estonian e-resident who does this care in Luxembourg? A very practical question. And who even has access to that server room?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U68	Thank you. I'm sure certain people will be granted this right of access, by name, I don't know what to say today. But obviously, from time to time, the equipment needs to be maintained, and there is a need to go to the room, and there will be people with the right to do so. Rather, they have been dispatched from Estonia because it is not necessary to visit them every day or every month, but there will be not many and they have obtained the right to do so, they have passed security checks and so on.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U69	Tanel Winter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U70	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I have such an intriguing question: have you had a discussion in the ministry about how, or could Estonia become like Luxembourg, in order to offer such services elsewhere in the world? Maybe it's a good business idea.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U71	We must also consider our geographical location. Why not, we can, of course, offer such a service, we have land and space. We do not have prepared rooms that meet security conditions, but we do have to consider how attractive we would be in offering such spaces, given our geographical location.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U72	It's Krista Aru's turn. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U73	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Madam Secretary. The explanatory memorandum states that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Ministry of Justice remain the coordinator. Why again such a solution to the two ministries? Couldn't it be either of the ministries? Or is it precisely in cooperation that you see this perspective in order to reduce these silo towers again?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U74	I think cooperation is a charm. I believe that's true here. If this has been agreed upon as a result of interinstitutional negotiations, and it has been thought that the best way to operate it is precisely in such cooperation, why not? Maybe it'll also reduce the silo.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U75	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U76	Thank you. I have to admit that I did not quite understand this remark on geographical location. As far as I know, Estonia remains a member of NATO and no member of the government has reason to doubt Estonia's security. My question, however, is about the time frame of this agreement. You rightly said that even when the previous government was in office, it was signed by the MOU. Then there was about a half-year delay, supposedly from the change of government. In a way, you can understand that. But where did it become necessary to process it for eight months after signing the agreement before bringing it before the Riigikogu? Does this seem like a reasonable time for you to bring such an agreement to the Riigikogu by the government?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U77	Thank you. The decision to come to the Riigikogu with this came through the discussions of the Ministry of Justice, from which the proposal came and also from the Chancellor of Justice. That's why I'm here today. However, as regards whether I doubt the security of the Estonian state, it is certainly not. Dear Prime Minister, don't put words in my mouth.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U78	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U79	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! I have a more detailed question, actually, two of them. The first is this. In Estonia, especially in the IT sector, the joy of ownership has always been the greatest joy. Now we are giving in to this temptation again and we want to have something in Luxembourg ourselves, while in the rest of the world there is a rather opposite trend: outsourced, used services, distributed risks and purchased services from professionals. I am not saying that Estonian IT people are always the most professional in the world, but there is a great deal of this thinking in Estonia. The Ministry of Justice you were talking about is still developing, as far as I know, your document management system, which is completely unique in the world. I don't think that's what's best for. But didn't it make sense for us to buy this service somewhere? Then you could do it a little more secretly, you wouldn't have to come before the Riigikogu and...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U80	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U81	...to tell us what address our servers are going to be in Luxembourg.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U82	I'm sure you'll get a much better answer if you ask two ping-lined colleagues who started this process. I certainly suggest you turn to him, you will have an exhaustive answer. As was said earlier, this government has continued its previous agreements, it has considered it right to continue them and not to turn them back. Personally, I think that if we are talking about a service as important as the backup of data from the Estonian state, given that we are an e-state and increasingly an e-state, and the data is worth gold, it is the lowest cost than to contribute to the data being backed up in such a state that we are talking about an embassy, immunity, etc. This is not the kind of thing that we give in to the private sector and save us twenty thousand euros. Maybe it doesn't. This service could be more expensive. In any case, this option is safer and I personally consider it right.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U83	Toomas Kivimägi, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U84	Thank you. Very honourable Minister! I can add to Mr Tanel Talve's question that I, too, had the same idea at the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs, and I suggested why not create a data embassy and make such an offer to Russia. I mean, they could fit it in any way. But whether you take it seriously or not, you can discuss it. Indeed, in any case, I support this draft. I remember the academic Endel Lippmaa, who respected paper and pencil, he still wrote everything on paper with a pencil, fearing that what was in the cloud or the expanse might disappear. I think that if he had known that such a data embassy would be created somewhere outside Estonia, he might have trusted the computer more. But I'm still asking what the cost is. At the committee meeting, it was said that one thing was the one-off cost. But what is the annual rent that the Estonian state has to pay for this? I know that amount, I'm sure it makes perfect sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U85	Thank you. I also said it in the speech, but I am happy to repeat it: the annual rental cost, which is a fixed cost, is in the order of EUR 200000.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U86	Javier in clothing, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U87	Thank you. Unfortunately, however, I did not receive an exhaustive answer to my previous question. I understand the Justice Department was handling this four-page contract, but that was not my question. The question was that, after signing, when the text of the agreement was final and the signatures were under, it took you eight months to bring this agreement to the Riigikogu. I asked why it took so long. But I'm going to ask my second question a little bit more. You have also been Minister of Information Technology for a little more than a year. What has been the most important new initiative, information system or e-service that has been put forward as your initiative during this time?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U88	Thank you. Although this question does not concern this bill in any way, I will answer it. I have to let it all out of my head once because there have been so many activities and I am not prepared for this issue in this draft. First of all, the current government has made a significant contribution to the development of e-residency. The amounts that e-residency will receive in the coming years are many times higher than those that earlier governments have contributed. As we know, e-residency has grown out of the start-up and needs resources to further develop the subject. Secondly, the government has launched an ICT development programme, a total of EUR 30 million over the coming years, starting this year. There are a lot of activities, since we are going to make a strong contribution to the digitalisation of Estonian companies. We all know this in this hall, I hope that there is a very big problem in Estonia, that we have an e-state with a strong image, that the state has developed its e-services well, that we will continue, that there are many activities agreed in the bureaucracy working group, for example, I can send you a long list, but private business has not come back for the Estonian e-state in the way we would have liked. The average productivity of the Estonian industry has remained at one level for ten years, at 55% of the European Union average. By the way, if it were even the average of the European Union, I would not be talking about the Nordic countries, where it is well above the average, the state budget would be 1.5 billion more. Perhaps this is the direction that needs to be taken, because we are also constantly hearing companies complain that they are no longer able to cope with current labour costs. Consequently, digitisation is a key issue. The ICT development programme provides for a programme that helps businesses to carry out digital audits. If necessary, we will also pay for specialists coming from outside, if we do not find them in Estonia, who will help the company to see that if it digitized, automatedd, used modern programs, what would be its potential for growth and competitive advantages in order to remain competitive in foreign markets as well. That's one thing. Another side of this same ICT development programme is the data mining project that we do in cooperation with the tax administration. The tax administration has a huge amount of data that we do not use for the benefit of our economy, although we could, for example, foresee some trends and react to them in advance. Such cooperation comes with the tax administration. In addition, this same ICT development programme provides for activities to help attract ICT specialists to Estonia. The ICT sector, or the industrial sector at all, has said that if there were 7 000 IT specialists to be taken immediately, they would be recruited but not available. We also know that when we talk about IT specialists, we compete with the whole world, not to mention Europe, and in order to attract these specialists here, a special approach is needed. There are coming up with separate activities, coming up with corresponding shares for companies that employ specialists. An international house project is underway, where people who come from outside Estonia to work receive advice and for them there are admission programmes. So these activities are very, very numerous. I'm sure I forgot something right now, but they're all worked out last year and they're starting this year. I would also like to come to the Reform Party Group to talk more about and to introduce these things.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U89	Urve Tiidus, your turn, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U90	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Coming back to the bill, I have a question that broadens my horizons. There is certainly a need for digital continuity and storage of data in all countries. Can you tell me how popular Luxembourg is in the offer of 'data embassies', how much European countries are interested in it and where they keep their data? Do you have any brief, brief words?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U91	Yes, thank you! As I said earlier, there is no other transnational data embassy project. We are at the forefront of this, like many other e-developments, and many are watching what we are doing and what we are doing about it. However, there are international organisations that do so. As I mentioned, the European Commission is backing up its data in Luxembourg, because it has set the conditions for doing so. I'm sorry, before I answered Taavi Rõivas, I forgot to say that, for example, during this government, the budgetary resources of the Estonian state for research and development have been allocated for the first time. In the past, they were all European Union instruments, where we were not so free to decide what we are doing to them. So EUR 1 million has been earmarked for research and development this year. With this we are currently developing a programme such as 'My First Product' to support companies more boldly in developing new solutions, new products and services. If it starts well, we will be applying for much more funds than the national budget strategy for next year. This is what we want to do, in line with Israel's example. We went to Israel to investigate how research and development in that country is being developed. We know that Estonia's problem is not so much the contribution of the Estonian state as the contribution of private entrepreneurs. The Estonian state contributes 0.7 to 0.8% of GDP, while entrepreneurs contribute 0.6%. If we compare ourselves with other countries, we will see that the country's contribution to GDP is comparable to that of the developed countries of the Nordic and European Union, but not the contribution of entrepreneurs. In developed countries, businesses contribute more than 2%, even more than 3% of GDP. We want to understand where this bottleneck is, which the removal of which would help and encourage companies to contribute more to research and development in Estonia as well. That is why we are developing this 'My First Product' program now to support and encourage them.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U92	Valdo Randpere, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U93	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! You said that Estonia was once again the first in a matter. This may in itself mean two things: indeed, Estonia has discovered something that no one has yet discovered, or Estonia has discovered something that everyone else has already forgotten. I, in itself, suspect that this is the other option. This thing, to take one physical server to the armpit, take it to another place and hide it, was fashionable several decades ago. You were talking here about the digital audit you're going to pay off to businesses. In the framework of this project, did the Estonian state order an external digital audit in order to assess how we can double or safely back up our data and ensure the continuity of the e-state? Was there an analysis and a comparative offer, or was there only one line and a way, and that is the solution that we are now voting on here?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U94	Thank you. Once again, I highly recommend that you talk to a couple of neighbors sitting on the bench, because his time began. I appreciate that. I think the decision was the right one. The way things were in history, I'm sure you'll hear a very exhaustive answer to that. However, I am absolutely certain that specialists at the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the RIA and also the Ministry of Justice have prepared this subject thoroughly and also carried out analyses. These are not overnight decisions; this process has been prepared for a very long time, since 2015.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U95	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U96	Thank you. Madam Minister, would you elaborate on the answer to Taavi's garment? He asked not about what is going on with e-residency or what programmes you have, but about what are the new initiatives in the field of public e-services that you have been able to initiate.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U97	Once again: there are a lot of e-services in Estonia and we are running away from entrepreneurs with these e-services, entrepreneurs are not coming back. We have to help the private sector. That's one side. However, the other side is that last February, if I remember correctly, this government adopted the corresponding regulation, which I do not remember, the regulation that will be audited for all the e-services offered by ministries and our public authorities. There are a lot of dead e-services that are not actually used or developed further, as if they are ridding the environment, homepages and confusing people. This issue has long been on the agenda so that such an audit should be carried out, or those responsible should be appointed to evaluate our e-services so as to complete a part and develop others further. Unfortunately, the previous government did not give this regulation for some reason, although it was on the agenda, it waited several years as a request from the Ministry of Economic Affairs. I am pleased that this government issued this regulation last February. There is work going on to agree which e-services we will develop further, which we will do more and which we will finish because people do not need them or they have lived their time. It's a continuous job. I'd be happy to send you a long memo on what stage it's in right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U98	Good Minister, there are no more questions for you. The presentation of the Economic Commission will be made by Sven Sester, Chairman of the Economic Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U99	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed this issue at its regular meeting on 13 February. There were many questions in the Commission, the debate was lively, it was perhaps more concentrated on this draft than today's discussion, which tended to create a bigger picture. Minister Urve Palo and his advisor, Laura Kask, were presenting this draft. I bring out the important points that were discussed in the Commission. The speaker wanted to know whether the possibility of creating this system was considered in some of the foreign representations, which Estonia has, after all, embassies, i.e. whether the possibility of using the embassy to accommodate data was planned. Laura Kask, adviser, replied that Estonia is backing up important data in embassies, but these are not solutions that meet the current requirements. In the future, Luxembourg's proposed data embassy would receive "real-time copies" of data and services. The speaker here was interested in what kind of data would be stored. The minister mentioned this today from this speaker, and I repeat that ten critical databases have been selected for the first stage. These are the Treasury Information System, Taxpayers' Register, Pension Insurance Register, e-file, Real Estate Book, Business Register, State Gazette, Population Register, Identity Documents Register and Land Register. These are the first ten critical databases. The representative of the Ministry confirmed that this was not a final decision and that the list of these registers would be reviewed periodically in the future. For servers, 60 square meters have been allocated to this data centre and additional hardware can be installed in order to manage possible additional data. The speaker also wanted to know how often data will be updated at the data embassy. The advisor of the Ministry explained that it is currently working on a solution for the periodic update of data and, in the long term, it is hoped that the data will be updated in real time, which in turn means that real time will require certain activities in the adjustment of the Estonian state's information systems. The resident also wanted to know whether the country has access to the data stored, i.e. whether Luxembourg has access to Estonian data. It was confirmed that the room in which these servers are placed belongs in itself to the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, but they do not have access to the data. There are restrictions on entering the data centre and only authorised persons of the Republic of Estonia may enter the Estonian server room. The Estonian state has access to data through digital data exchange, where data in turn move in encrypted form. The Minister added that the immunity and diplomatic privileges of the data embassy are similar to those of the ordinary embassy and that the physical security of the data centre meets NATO security requirements. I was also curious about the costs of the embassy. The minister replied in front of the Commission, and also in front of the hall today, that the rent would be in the order of EUR 200000 per year and that the single investment in the first year would be in the order of EUR 36000, mainly for the fitting-out of the server space. This room belongs to the Duchy, but the servers and software used on these servers will belong to Estonia. Tarmo Kruusimäe was interested in regular maintenance and cleaning in the server room and, for example, in the event of a fire, whether access to the rescue team was guaranteed. A representative of the Ministry explained that the rescue team must not enter the room, but a special system is required on the roof of the room, which provides an opportunity to counter the fire. This regulation is based on the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations. Regular care may be provided or purchased by the State itself. There will be no permanent staff at the data embassy in Luxembourg, so the people of Estonia will definitely regularly visit this server room in the future for possible settings, software updates and other things that may not be possible via the Internet. Jaanus Marrandi wondered why Luxembourg was chosen as the country of residence of the data Embassy. The Ministry explained that one of the biggest problems is that Estonia, due to its small size, is in a situation where we have a problem with the distance between two secure data centres. The distance should be 240 kilometres. This would certainly cause problems in Estonia, given the geographical size of the country. The Minister added that if something should happen on the territory of Estonia, such as something that would result in the loss of data from a database located in Estonia for some reason, or Estonia would lose access to data, then access would always be guaranteed in another country. This is partly the diversification of risks. Tarmo Kruusimäe wondered if the establishment of the data embassy was related to the recently discovered ID-card security hole. The Minister explained that the activities to establish a data embassy have been long-term. As early as 2015, the Government of the Republic approved the concept of a cloud of state. Erki Savisaar wondered if there would be more embassies like this in the future. A representative of the Ministry said that according to the concept of the state cloud, a network of data embassies should in principle be established. The current plan is to develop a data embassy in Luxembourg and then you can start looking for and finding new locations. The speaker wondered if it was planned to advertise Estonia to other countries as the destination country of the data embassy. That was a question that was in this Chamber today. The Minister stated in the Commission, as he did here today, that Estonia may not be considered as a safe country of destination because of any problems arising from the security situation. The largest data service providers have been interested in Estonia as a country of destination of the data centre, but the choice has fallen to other countries. We finally got to the decision-making process. The decisions were made, be they preconceived, all consensually. The decisions were: to send the draft to the plenary agenda for today's day, that is why I am here today before you, to propose that the first reading be stopped and to propose that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 10 working days, i.e. 6 March at 17:00. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U100	Good waitress, no questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Reform Party Group in Taavi Kõiva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U101	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Reform Party Group supports the ratification of this agreement and this draft in the form proposed, but we have some observations on this issue. Firstly, the idea of data embassies in itself is innovative and very necessary. The original plan was that Estonian data embassies would be located not only in Luxembourg, but actually around the world. They are not only intended to be backed up, as the Minister said, but to enable the information system to operate in parallel in several countries, irrespective of geographical location, and to be protected from all kinds of physical and virtual attacks at a completely new level. A country that is at the forefront of digital development must, of course, also be at the forefront of defending digital systems. Somehow it cannot be satisfied that the agreement signed in June, eight months ago, took such a long time to reach the Riigikogu. It is not hundreds of pages that should be analysed or processed in many places after signing, it is a four-page agreement that had long been agreed. The fact that the Chancellor of Justice had to look at it or the Ministry of Justice had to deal with it, in my opinion, there is no justification for coming here for eight months. This, in turn, gives the impression that other agreements, which are long overdue at least at the MOU level, are not being rushed enough or taken seriously. The security of Estonia's e-state is not something that could be paused or should be paused in any way, as we have done with the rest of our government administration. The second point I want to mention is directly due to my question to the Minister. I am certainly not as critical as the Minister was in bringing examples of the Estonian private sector, because there are very innovative productions in Estonia, there are very many companies in Estonia to whom the generalisation that companies do not use digital technology at all is certainly too much. But I would focus my observations specifically on public e-services. Although personally I was motivated by the fact that Minister Urve Palo's title also mentioned information technology separately, with great expectations and expectations, it has to be said, unfortunately, that the level of ambition could be significantly higher when looking at reality. We have a lot of things in Estonia, indeed, as the Minister said, which has been done very correctly in the development of the e-state, starting with the X-road that allows digital identity and information systems to communicate with each other. Also, the principle that the state only asks you once and, on the other occasion, the information systems themselves must be able to exchange this information is crucial and, to date, also in 2018, completely unique in the world, as is the unique e-residency that started in 2014. But my question to the minister wasn't how it was going on the X-road or e-residency, the question was what's the next idea. I believe that every government has reason to initiate some very big ideas in order to ensure that Estonia's e-state goes on successfully. I'm asking for three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U102	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U103	Unfortunately, we have not seen or heard these ideas on this government today. It does not have to be the case that these ideas must come up with either the Social Democratic Party, or a member of the government, which is specifically the head of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. These ideas are really in society and it's worth picking them up. Just as ministers themselves did not come up with e-residency, but in 2014 ministers saw that a broad-eyed idea had arisen in the minds of people whose support would potentially have a great deal to gain in Estonia. Yes, e-residency has actually led to considerable risks from the outset, but at least in 2014 the government also had the courage to undertake risky projects. SKAIS2 has recently been declared a failure with a large amount of noise, and then, about five or six ministers went back in time, they started looking for the guilty. I very much hope that now that it is understood that something has been done wrong, it will actually move forward. It is a vital information system in the social field, which helps to bring social benefits, social benefits and so on much closer to people. I come back to the image of putting state building on a pause, which we have already heard too much here. If you pause anything at all, you could pause the idea of new tax increases and taxes. E-state doesn't need a break, e-state needs a new boost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U104	On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Free Party Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U105	Mr President! Madam Secretary! Good people's representatives! The Estonian Free Party Group supports the proposed draft law and supports it for a number of reasons. Firstly, because this is definitely progress in Estonia's e-governance. Indeed, the concept of the data embassy has been discussed for years. In fact, here, as the previous speaker has already emphasised, I would like to see an even bolder and more ambitious approach. Secondly, we certainly welcome this audit in the field of IT services. I do not know all areas so well, but I am quite familiar with the digitisation, accessibility and development of this whole package of services, I say that there is a great deal of untapped potential, overdoing and duplication, and there is indeed a great deal of untapped resources, unused databases. I would like to call on the Minister to think a little more about it now that such data embassies are opened and we go on with this network. Certainly, the Estonian state has a very large heritage; these are our cultural values, which are digitised and which are of great interest. It may seem to us in this Chamber that these collections of folk poetry by Jakob Hurt are so much, but they are still unique in the world. If it were possible, the area of cultural goods would also need to be extended at some point, both in terms of back-up copies and in terms of access to work already done, precisely through their data embassies. This would be a very innovative and bold approach, and it would certainly contribute to the vigorous development of our e-state image. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U106	On behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group Tanel Winter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U107	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, As both the representative of the Socialists and the president of the e-Estonian Support Group, I would just like to make a few comments. If any previous speaker has spoken of being on a pause, I would rather say that things have gone a little faster on our initiative than on the fine-tuning process that has taken place in the past. We have dealt very much here, for example, with the issue of demand-based public transport, which requires a fundamental change and a change of way of thinking. We have talked about the fact that it is not enough to have an additional production of e-services, but that people also need a proper internet connection so that they can use these excellent e-services. Accelerating all these processes has been a priority for this government, and this is all happening. But I want to draw attention to something that I think is very important. We tend to continue to talk about e-state pieces such as one service and another service, etc., but my personal opinion is that the e-state cannot be completed by automatising the old-fashioned structure with ministries and their offices. Perhaps we should think much more out of the box during the so-called state reform, take and map out all business processes and draw a completely new public sector organisational architecture? Here I call on all my colleagues, including my colleagues from the opposition, to support this idea and to think together how it should be done. Perhaps we should build more e-state on this new organisational architecture as a platform where the state is only working on building this platform and interface and giving the private sector more opportunities to create applications. Bigger thoughts like this, I think, could be the ones we could use to do everything together here. So please, let's do things together! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U108	Minister Urve Palo has also asked for the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U109	Ladies and gentlemen! It was very strange and sad to hear the ex-Prime Minister's inspiring speech on the subject of nothing being done. I understand that we are all politicians here, and the work of the opposition is not to try to be critical, but I think that when making criticism, too, you must be honest and objective. When we are talking about e-governance development, it must be said that indeed, over the years, we have also been engaged in cooperation with the Social Democrats, together with the Reform Party, here for the last few years, with new projects in the government. You have to admit, if what you started is worth moving forward, you have to. There is no justification for jumping from one subject to another and simply looking for new activities, but working solutions that are underfunded are neglected. That is why I have highlighted the huge financial contribution of today's government and also the moral support for further developing e-residency. It's not ready at all, there's a lot of problems, there's more every day. We'll solve them with the e-residency team. However, once they do their necessary work, they do not have a financial limit. The same applies to the development of existing e-services, which I was talking about. It's not like we're gonna do something and we're gonna do new things. We must constantly monitor which services work, what more needs to be done, and what things may have lived up to their time. This job is continuous. Unfortunately, I must also say that during the governance of the Reform Party, the work of the RIA, or the National Information System Agency, had been underfunded for years. This is what we saw this autumn during the ID-card crisis. The lessons of the ID-card we will bring the RIA to the government in the coming weeks and, as a result, we will carry out activities to really strengthen our e-state. We are at the forefront in this area, but since the e-state has been underfunded, it stands on chicken legs. It shouldn't be like that. So the current government is paying very much attention to strengthening our e-state so that it remains and will be safe tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. This government has also allocated funds to implement the last mile plan across Estonia. When we talk about Estonia being an e-state, e-services must be available everywhere. Right now, we're working on a mapping of white areas. I can safely say that more than 100,000 households will remain in white areas where the private sector will not invest in the coming years. I was talking about the ICT development program, but the former Prime Minister didn't want to hear it. I'll tell you again. The ICT development programme has EUR 30 million to support the private sector to come after our e-government. I meet with representatives of the private sector every day. Listen to their concerns, listen to the representatives of ITL and industry. The big concern is that the private sector has not come back for e-government developments. It will not take us any further, if the country goes out of the way alone, it is high time to help the private sector to come after it. We need to be together and work together, not so that the country goes out of the way, but the private sector doesn't catch up. The Reform Party did not contribute to this for 10 or 15 years, and now it is high time to do so. Today's government is betting on it. It is the result of all these digital audits, which are also the result of ICT programme development, which I would be happy to talk about more about to the Reform Party. But when it is estimated that nothing is done, it is not just subjective, it is wrong. I don't think there's a lie to be heard on this podium. Today's government contributes more than any other government has ever contributed to e-developments and helping Estonian companies to digitise, research and development and ultimately to productivity growth. The wealth of the Estonian state and the wage rise of the Estonian people come from there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U110	Taavi Kõivas, do you have a reply request? Please give me a microphone for the Tavi Clothes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U111	Thank you. Since the minister mentioned my name, I want to make it clear that there is no need to go evil. Good Urve Palo, I didn't make up that country pause design myself, it's been used by your party chairman, Jevgeni Ossinovski. I think it is a failed figure, I do not think the Estonian state should be paused, but it should be protected from the many stupidities that your colleagues and yourself have committed. However, I would point out that I have never tried to claim to you that, as the existing solutions or those implemented by previous governments should be in progress or neglected. On the contrary, of course, we must move on with them. My question was whether, this year or for a little longer, if you have been in office, some good ideas have come up about what kind of public service could still be made electronic in Estonia. That's the kind of idea I've been offering in Postimees' quite a long article. A lot of people have responded and offered some good ideas. My question to you was, would you be willing to take some new ideas aboard? I'm sorry! What you are saying is that the new innovative idea is internet connections. The last mile plan was also included in the budget strategy by the previous government, namely your colleague Liisa Oviir. As far as I know, no extra money has come. If there is more money, we are very pleased with it, but that does not mean that public e-services should be neglected and no new ideas can come from the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U112	Good Jürgen Ligi, I did not notice that you had been mentioned in the Minister's speech, which is why, unfortunately, I cannot give you a reply. [[A comment from the floor.]] Yes, Jürgen Ligi, you are not the Reform Party alone. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] So, honourable Riigikogu, we are done negotiating. The commission's proposal was to conclude the first reading of the draft 563. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of 563 amendments at 5 p.m. on 6 March.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U113	The fifth item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on Health and Safety at Work and the Act amending the Collective Agreement initiated by the Government of the Republic. Evgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour, will present the initiators' report. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U114	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! Since I was also mentioned in the previous speech regarding the pause in the country, I am using my right of reply. You have to be precise here, and I'm quoting myself. I have said that although the spring national budget strategy allows for new initiatives to be launched, it is clear that no one will create a new ambitious legislative agenda in 2018. From the autumn, let us be precise, there is a substantial process of state building on a small break until the 100th anniversary of democratic elections is expected. But until the summer, the work is going to be very fast, and I'm sure it's going to be practically after that, but that's what it is. Now I am pleased to go to the substance of the item and to introduce you to the draft bill 581, i.e. the draft law amending the Law on health and safety at work and the law amending the collective agreement. This is a beautiful old law and, consequently, in many points, an obsolete one. It has not been substantially altered for a long time, and it therefore contains a number of requirements that have fallen behind in time and which are unclear to both workers and employers, some of which are unnecessarily burdensome with bureaucracy and do not fulfil their purpose. The amendment to the Health and Safety at Work Act aims to improve the protection of workers and reduce the administrative burden on employers in complying with health and safety requirements. The new requirements also guide the employer to think more about a safe working environment, thereby better protecting the worker from the immediate risks. Such modernisation was required by a number of legal requirements relating in particular to the organisation of health surveillance, the supervision and training of workers, the organisation of first aid, the investigation of accidents at work and misdemeanours. You will see that this draft is not very long, but there are very many points, many of which are of a technical nature, so let me focus my report only on the most important changes. Firstly, we want to change the procedure for organising health surveillance. The problem is that the worker is sent to health surveillance without the employer assessing the risks to the working environment and their impact on the health of the worker. According to the Labour Inspectorate's supervision, 31% of companies have no link between health surveillance and the assessment of risks to the real working environment. Therefore, health surveillance often fails to fulfil its purpose and employers are unable to get sufficient feedback from occupational health doctors on how to improve the company's working environment. With the legislative amendment, we will link the health check more closely with the results of the risk assessment of the working environment. The Act outlines the hazards of the working environment and the nature of the work, where health checks must be carried out. In addition, for some hazards, such as carcinogens and night work, a health check must be carried out prior to exposure to the hazard, to ensure that the worker is fit to work under such conditions and that exposure to these hazards does not adversely affect his health. In addition, we will make the organisation of health surveillance more flexible, giving the opportunity to carry out a first health check within four months of starting work, instead of one month. This is the result of discussions with employers who have said that health surveillance during the first month may mean that in very many cases the worker is directed during the probationary period and, if the probationary period ends, this check has been carried out unnecessarily. The four-month limit is also the limit of probation. Secondly, we will change the organisation of mentoring, training and first aid. The amendments aim to increase flexibility and improve legal clarity. Employers will be given more rights in organising the mentoring and training of employees. For example, the employer can decide how and who will carry out the instruction and training. In future, occupational health and safety training must be carried out by an in-service training institution that meets the requirements of the Adult Education Act. This also removes the requirement for the registration of training institutions in the Ministry of Social Affairs, as the Ministry of Social Affairs does not assess the content of training in our country. The change will contribute to improving the quality of training. At the same time, the employer will be given the opportunity to carry out further training themselves if the training needs arise from new risks to the working environment and the employer has the skills and knowledge to do so. The requirements for first aid arrangements will also become more flexible. In the future, the employer will have more opportunities to organise first aid at the company and determine first aid providers based on the needs of the company, including the number of employees, the nature of the activity or the frequency of accidents. For example, it is possible for the employer to decide how many first aid providers to appoint or which first aid equipment must be available in the working environment. The third major issue is the changes to the procedure for investigating accidents at work. By amending the legislation, we will simplify the procedures for investigating minor accidents at work, which did not result in temporary incapacity for work, such as stumbling on a staircase or minor injuries. In the event of such accidents, the employer has the right to investigate the accident at work more easily and there is no need to produce a formal report on the results of the investigation. There is no need to inform the Labour Inspectorate about such minor accidents. The employer must draw up a formal report and forward it to the Labour Inspectorate in the event of temporary incapacity, serious injury or fatal accidents at work. In addition, the procedure for investigating accidents at work will be changed in the Labour Inspectorate. According to the amendment, the Labour Inspectorate does not investigate accidents at work during criminal proceedings when an accident at work is being investigated by the prosecutor's office. The amendment reduces duplication of activities between the Labour Inspectorate and the Public Prosecutor's Office in the investigation of accidents at work. At the end of criminal proceedings, the Labour Inspectorate investigates fatal accidents at work and serious accidents at work caused by intentional non-compliance with health and safety requirements. Fourthly, the amendment also increases the responsibility of workers and employers for violating health and safety requirements. The draft law clarifies misdemeanours and increases the level of fines. With higher fines, we motivate employers to better comply with health and safety requirements. In addition, there was an important debate between employers and trade unions, and the long-term desire of employers has been The agreement on a fine must specifically lay down the activities of the worker and the employer, which are considered to be a breach of health and safety requirements and which may pose a risk to the health of the worker. For example, such activities may be where the employer has not provided PPE and where the worker has not used PPE or has ignored the safety requirements for machinery, equipment and other work equipment. In order to protect an employee from unreasonable agreements, the penalty imposed in the event of an infringement shall be capped. If an employee has failed to comply with the health and safety requirements, the fine to be imposed shall not exceed the average salary of the employee for one month. If the employer has failed to comply, the fine to be agreed shall not be capped. The idea is to protect the employer in a situation where the employer has done everything for his part, for example by issuing the necessary personal protective equipment, but the employee simply does not use them. An employee could have some kind of responsibility in these situations. The agreement also works mirrored: if the employer ignores certain requirements, it is possible to agree on a contractual penalty. Fifthly, I mention a number of employer's information obligations, which are unnecessary and create excessive bureaucracy. We're losing them. For example, the employer's obligation to notify the Labour Inspectorate of the start-up and change of occupation is abolished. This is for a very simple reason: this information is received by the Labour Inspectorate from the business register. The obligation to inform the Labour Inspectorate about the establishment of a working environment council and the annual work environment council activities is also abolished. These changes will result in a reduction of the administrative burden on employers. As has been mentioned, in addition to these amendments, there are a number of technical amendments to this draft, which I am not going to talk about in any longer. The draft law is due to enter into force by 1 January 2019. Some amendments relating to databases and collective agreement law are planned to enter into force in general. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U115	The first question is posed by Monika Haukanõm. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U116	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! He spoke nicely about the fine and its size, but there is also a difference in the responsibility for the violation of occupational health or safety requirements imposed on the workplace or, for example, the requirements imposed on work equipment. Can you also indicate the fine units or amounts that such infringements may cost the employer?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U117	Thank you. These amendments appear on pages 10 and 11 of the draft proposal and concern the levels of penalties for misdemeanours in this area. We have corrected them upwards, on the one hand, because of the passing of time and, on the other hand, because, on the one hand, if we reduce certain bureaucracy, certain requirements for the employer, on the other hand, in the spirit of social partnership, the responsibility of employers for infringements will be increased. We have brought all the fines of a legal person to EUR 32000, which is the country's overall penal or judicial direction, in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice, we have reached this point. In the case of a natural person, we have used 300 fine units, which is, as far as I am aware, I am not a legal expert at the maximum amount that is applied in such cases.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U118	Ain Lutsepp.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U119	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, According to § 1 (15) of the Bill, § 12 of the Act is supplemented by a new paragraph 9 which allows the employer and employee to agree on a contractual penalty for breach of health and safety requirements. The Estonian Trade Union Confederation has challenged this. He says that the current regulation of the Employment Contracts Act already guarantees these rights to the employer, is the possibility of warning and the possibility of canceling the employment contract. He thinks it's enough. Why is this fine so necessary?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U120	Thank you. As has been said, the draft was preceded by an in-depth social dialogue between trade unions and employers. An agreement between trade unions and employers was sought in the course of the procedure of this law. So there are points in the draft that have been the important desire of employers' representatives in the context of its amendment or revision, and there are points that have been employees' wishes. He has come together as a certain compromise in this way, and I dare say that, broadly speaking, both employers and trade unions are satisfied with this version. Employers would have liked us to have gone further on several points, we have not reached an agreement there, the trade unions have wanted no changes to be made on several points, but that is how we have brought this whole here. In particular, we have done two things on the basis of feedback. Firstly, we have laid down a cap on the fine in order to protect the employee. The fine agreed for the staff member should not be higher than the employee's monthly salary, simplifying the wording. On the other hand, the mirror image can also impose a contractual penalty on the employer, which can be agreed upon. This is particularly relevant to collective relations in practical life. It is difficult, though not impossible, to imagine that an employee comes to the employer and starts demanding what kind of contractual penalty must then be imposed on the employer if it has failed to issue personal protective equipment. In collective relations, this is certainly one of the subjects of negotiation and agreement. The fine imposed on the employer does not have a cap, it is a matter of agreement between the social partners. But in conclusion, it can be said that it is a certain compromise between the objectives and interests of the social partners.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U121	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U122	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! Does the draft include this situation when a worker comes to work with a viral infection, causing himself and the collective greater damage in the long term than would otherwise have been possible? Today, however, people do not dare to stay home and heal themselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U123	I hope I am not mistaken when I say that this draft does not address this issue. But the general occupational safety standard is that just as the working environment needs to be safe for people, so must other people.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U124	Monika Haukanõmm, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U125	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Indeed, as you also said, this is a very old law, which applies since 1999. But even longer than this law has been in force, there has been talk of the so-called TALKS. My question is this: has this bill been discussed during its discussions, when can we get to the issue of insurance for accidents at work and occupational diseases, TRUSS? As we know, there are already certain conditions in this law for the compensation of damages by the Social Insurance Board when, for example, the employer has ceased his activities, but on the other hand, it is still not very precise and the protection of people is not provided for situations where the employer does not wish to compensate.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U126	Thank you. The brief answer is that this law does not deal with it. The longer answer is that according to the government's programme of action, the Ministry of Social Affairs is preparing a possible proposal that will partly answer this question. This concerns, in particular, more serious accidents at work. The proposal will reach a debate in the government, I hope, within the next month. Then you can talk about it further.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U127	Ain Lutsepp.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U128	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, This law concerns practically all Estonian employees. Workers have very different ways of saying, specialties and everything has a certain specificity. To what extent is it possible that this law also creates opportunities for collective agreements to solve certain specific problems arising from the implementation of this law or, if there is something missing, what would be needed?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U129	Thank you. This law is without prejudice to the agreement on these matters in the context of collective agreements as compared to the existing one. As I mentioned, the fine is certainly one issue on which it is possible to negotiate the responsibility of employers and workers for compliance. The possibility remains that specific categories of people or groups of workers, as well as specific areas of residence, will be subject to specific legal requirements. The general law, which is the law, has itself made a certain generalisation in order to ensure that the rules of the law on health and safety at work are applied more universally. At the same time, quite a number of points have dealt with certain requirements for specific areas of life or, say, many types of economic activity or enterprise or business that have fallen behind the times. There are still many, sometimes even a little funny regulations in the law. For example, it has been said that I can't find where it was here, that there are requirements for heat, and we are legally allowing the use of mobile heat and trailer, in addition to the heat, if it is warm enough. This type of law-level transcription, which has gone relatively far from real life, is a part of this law. So we are rather moving towards more general standards, provided that awareness of these risks has improved in the field of business environment and occupational safety in Estonia as a whole, and we do not need to report everything in detail. For example, the current law states that the employer has to clean the premises once a day. Now we say in the law that the employer must keep the premises clean. Maybe it's enough if he cleans them once a week, maybe they only use them once a week. In the current law, once a day, these rooms need to be cleaned. This type of lack of standards should be reduced and more talked about legal values on the basis of which practice has actually developed and is unlikely to require such precise regulation at the level of the law. This opens up a larger room for agreement in the context of collective relations.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U130	Raivo Põldaru.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U131	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! Opening from page 4 of this bill, I will read points 1 to 10, which list all hazard factors, and then point 11 is: other hazard or nature of work. Maybe you could do it a little shorter, cancel all of these 10 points and just write 'where is the hazard' or 'where is the dangerous work'?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U132	Thank you. This is generally the preferred way for law professionals to formulate these things in law. In order to simplify legal practice, more important factors are mentioned, these are risk factors or some other. But in order to avoid a situation where real life eventually manifests itself in real life, there are still some different risk factors, but if they are not mentioned in the law, it is said that they are not risk factors, they are mentioned more important, and the last point is 'or else'. There is quite a lot of this in Estonian law and, in my opinion, legal practice justifies such legislation, at least I have not heard the opposite.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U133	Honourable Minister, there are no further questions for you. Thank you. The presentation of the commission is made by Monika Haukanõm, Vice-Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U134	Mr President! Good minister! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I will give you an overview of what has happened in the Committee on Social Affairs on this draft. The preparation for the first reading of the Act amending the Law on Health and Safety at Work and the Collective Contract Act 581 took place on 13 February. In addition to the members of the committee, Evgeni Ossinovski, Minister for Health and Labour, and Eva Põld, Adviser to the Department for the Development of Working Life, Ministry of Social Affairs, were invited to the meeting. As the Minister gave a pretty thorough overview of the draft, I will focus on just a few of the questions raised in the Commission. Namely, Tiina Kangro wanted to clarify point 13 of the draft. This point concerns measures taken by the employer to prevent the health risks of underage workers. What exactly does that mean? We received the answer that the minor's job needs to be adjusted; because of his or her youth, he or she may be shorter in size than an adult and may need, for example, a lower working space. A minor may also need to take more, longer or more frequent breaks because he or she gets tired faster than an adult. I also asked the Minister that, since the draft had been developed in close cooperation with employers, workers and trade unions and compromises were made, what were the compromise points that satisfied employers and trade unions with the draft. Two points were brought out. The first was what has already been said here today; these were contractual fines, with which the trade unions did not agree very much at first, but a good compromise was found during the negotiations. This provision is not only aimed at employees but it takes place bilaterally: if the contract is violated either by the employer or by the employee, both have liability and specific amounts have been determined, with the employee not exceeding the average monthly salary. In addition, there was another side: the employer's penalties for infringements of occupational safety standards were tightened up. This amount has already been mentioned here; this fine may now be EUR 32000 instead of EUR 2600 if the law is passed. Perhaps this amount will be significantly increased. Since this is largely a technical and descriptive draft, which in essence does not change much, the Members of the Commission did not have many questions either. We have managed to prepare the draft for today's sitting. Finally, important and necessary decisions were taken: to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 20 February 2018 (consensually), to propose the completion of the first reading (consensually), to propose a deadline for the submission of amendments of a traditional ten working days, i.e. the deadline of 6 March 2018 at 5.15 p.m. (consensually) and to appoint Monika Haukanõm, vice-president of the Commission as rapporteur (consensusly). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U135	Thank you. There are no more questions for you, and there is not even the first question. As you have heard, the proposal of the commission is to conclude the first reading of draft 581. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft at 5.15 p.m. on 6 March.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U136	Today's sixth item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure initiated by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party 562. I invite Hanno Pevkur, a member of the Riigikogu, to give a presentation, and he is also a member of the Board of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U137	Good vice chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, This is an absolutely very good and necessary draft. This bill is very short, but it has a strong impact on Estonia's legal order. It can be said that the draft amends § 381 (2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which is supplemented by only one sentence. This sentence is very simple: 'If the affected administrative body has not filed a public claim, it may be filed on behalf of the State by the Public Prosecutor's Office. ' Then let's talk about what it means. This means that if someone has stolen or caused damage in a municipality or in a state enterprise and that state enterprise or local government itself does not submit a civil claim, it does not say that he has suffered damage, but that criminal proceedings establish that damage has occurred, that the taxpayer has suffered damage, that the prosecutor's office will have the right to submit the claim itself. There cannot be a situation in which the taxpayer is harmed, but someone fails to claim damages on the basis of their own interests or for some other mixed reason. When writing this bill, we considered whether to give the Ministry of Finance the possibility of filing a claim for damages. We found it more reasonable, in terms of procedural economics, to do so by the prosecutor's office, who is in charge of criminal proceedings anyway, and who has all the necessary information and evidence of the damage suffered and to whom a claim for damages must be made. Secondly, we considered whether the amount of a possible refund that compensates the taxpayer for what has been stolen or the damage caused should be granted to the injured party, the municipality or the state company. We found it more reasonable to keep it in public revenue. This is for a very simple reason: to motivate the injured to deal with the damages themselves. In fact, there is already a principle in the current law that if someone suffers damage, they go and claim that damage through criminal proceedings as a civil claim. But in this case, if this claim is not made, there is currently a gap in the law. I am very pleased that the whole Committee on Legal Affairs recognised the existence of this gap and considered it right that this draft would remain in the process, and that it would continue to be dealt with. I agree that this draft must be dealt with together with the other proposals of the Chancellor of Justice currently pending in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the reduction of corruption in local governments. I also agree that if the Committee on Constitutional Affairs brings this draft into this Chamber, then there will be the removal of the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure pending before the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the referral of the proceedings before the Committee on Legal Affairs, because the rules of criminal procedure are the area of the Committee on Legal Affairs. I do not mind if these two drafts are combined in substance, because it is important to resolve the problem. There are quite a number of examples of local governments. We'll take 2016 alone. 17 corruption cases were then registered in state institutions, 11 municipalities and 16 state and local government companies. Perhaps the last example (I visited recently in Ida-Virumaa) dates from Kohtla-Järve. Until now, the City of Kohtla-Järve has not filed a claim for damages in criminal proceedings relating to the former mayor. These examples were also given by a representative of the Central Criminal Police at a meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs. So the problem is acute and the problem is adequate. I and the other members of the Committee on Legal Affairs got a very good and necessary knowledge when the Attorney General was asked how much money we were talking about. The damage caused to the taxpayer is still estimated by the Attorney General to amount to millions of euros. This is a serious issue and this draft needs a swift and clear procedure. I believe that giving the prosecutor's office a simple and laconical opportunity is a good and quick solution so that such a gap in the right can be removed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U138	Andres Herkel, your question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U139	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! First of all, I will announce that I will undoubtedly support this bill, but I still have some confusion about the motives behind its presentation. It was known that the Chancellor of Justice had approached the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs had prepared this draft, but the Group of the Reform Party rushed ahead. Was it going after a political point, or is it a motive, which you have recently touched, that, as a good member of the Riigikogu's board, you want to stand by the fact that the drafts and their various aspects are discussed in different committees? Indeed, the Code of Criminal Procedure should strictly fall within the area of the Committee on Legal Affairs, although the Commission can seek the opinion of another Commission on a draft initiated by one committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U140	Thank you for that question. No, the question was rather that we waited for some time for what the Committee on Constitutional Affairs would then do with the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice. Looking at these different proposals from the Chancellor of Justice, this was one specific point on the basis of which criminal proceedings should be amended. In my opinion, it would have made sense if the Committee on Constitutional Affairs had not initiated the so-called cluster bill in order to eliminate the constitutional problems relating to local governments, which the Chancellor of Justice pointed out, but had immediately referred the request to the Committee on Legal Affairs to the effect that a change would be initiated by the Committee on Legal Affairs itself in those parts of the criminal proceedings. The government has not taken this initiative, this initiative has not come. I guess it was our group's decision to raise this issue. Looking at cases of corruption in recent years, it was clear that there was actually no time to wait. This is one concrete and quick solution how we can solve a very large legal problem with a very small legal correction.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U141	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. The discussion of the Committee on Legal Affairs is summarised by Külliki Kübarsepp, Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U142	Good vice chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure 562 was discussed in the Committee on Legal Affairs on Monday, 12 February last week. The debate was emotional and exciting. I'd divide it into three categories. Firstly, the big question was whether there was a problem. There were ambassadors who thought it wasn't such a dominant problem. However, Mati Poller, Head of the Office for Corruption Crimes of the Central Criminal Police, said that there are municipalities such as Tartu, Kõpu, Mustvee, Lohusuu, Kallaste and Kiili, and Kohtla-Järve, where the problem is completely present. To clarify, the Attorney General mentioned the amount of money, i.e. how much damage has been done to the local authorities, that it can still talk about millions of euros. The subject is quite serious. The second issue I would like to draw attention to is whether it could be the prosecutor's office or the Ministry of Finance. The prosecutor's office was not directly opposed, but they made an observation that they certainly needed more resources, especially economic experts, to help put these cases together. For a moment, the question arose as to why the initiators of the draft had spoken of the possibility of bringing a claim for damages and not of such an obligation. The Commission's rapporteur pointed out our rule of law that there must be discretion, based on circumstances and possibilities, to decide whether or not to give way. Thirdly, I would point out that this draft could be compatible with the draft law amending the Act on the organisation of local government pending in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs 574. There were opinions from wall to wall, but the final decision was that it would be reasonable to finish the first reading of the draft and that the drafts could either be discussed jointly or consideration should be given to what was announced by Tanel Kalmet of the Ministry of Justice that the government was proposing that decisions relating to criminal proceedings should be brought to the table of the Committee on Legal Affairs. We unanimously took the following decisions: to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 20 February, to propose that the first reading be closed, to propose that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 4 p.m. on 6 March and to appoint a rapporteur here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U143	The question is from Andres Herkel. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U144	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I am faced with this draft 562, which is at first reading, as well as § 3 of the Constitutional Committee's draft 574, which has not yet reached the first reading. Both concern the amendment of the Code of Criminal Procedure and are built up with somewhat different logic. Did you look at them comparatively in the Committee on Legal Affairs? Has the Committee on Constitutional Affairs already addressed the Committee on Legal Affairs for an opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U145	Thank you. Our position was that we would close the first reading of this draft in the Chamber, then we would call on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, or the author of the proposal himself, so that further procedural decisions could be discussed. Our level of analysis was that critics felt that the draft proposed by the Reform Party was too laconic and that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs was more detailed. The government's criticism was also that the draft proposed by the Reform Party is too laconic. But we considered it right that the first readings should be completed and then moved forward with the procedural decisions. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has not yet addressed us with an opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-20_U146	Thank you very much for the waitress. No further questions for you. Do the representatives of the political groups have a wish to negotiate? That's not what you want. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 562. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments to the draft by 6 March at 16:00. Ladies and gentlemen, a busy working day for all of you! We'll meet in this big Chamber tomorrow at 13:00. Take care! Closure of the sitting at 12.49 p.m.
