ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-18_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning, guests. We will start the 5th working week Thursday session of the 8th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Now it's time to hand over the drafts and inquiries. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-18_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu, ladies and gentlemen. On behalf of the Free Party Group, I have a draft law amending the law on pre-school children's institution. We are not of the opinion that there must be a lot of things that politicians offer people free of charge, but we have taken a stand and started to understand that early childhood education could be integrated into the general education system and the coverage of kindergarten place fees in the form of municipal and, more indirectly, public support is certainly one measure that contributes to improving the demographic situation in Estonia and alleviates the burden on families with young children. In our programme, there was a view that we could move in this direction, perhaps during the next election cycle. I understand that a few weeks ago, other parties were asked about this. We have reason to hope that it will be supported by the Social Democrats and the Centre Party, who are in the government, but there are still supporters in this Chamber. We hope to bring this draft to the vote before Christmas and receive your support from all of us. How much is it gonna cost? At present, an estimated amount of EUR 65 million has been announced, which should be quite easy to cover if we cut the costs of the central government of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-18_U3	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-18_U4	Mr Kalle Laanet, Vice-President of the Riigikogu! Dear colleagues! On behalf of the Isamaa Group, I am handing over a draft amendment to the Riigikogu decision concerning the resolution of the population crisis in the Parliament's problem committee. The Fatherland Group would like to exchange its representative on the committee. Instead of the current representative, Maire Aunas, we would be represented there by Helir-Valdor Seeder. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-18_U5	Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two drafts. The Management Board decides on their further processing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu. I'm asking for some peace! We're now conducting a presence check, you can miss it if you talk so much. 73 members of the Riigikogu are present, 28.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-18_U6	Let's go to today's agenda. We have one item on the agenda, which is the draft decision of the Riigikogu submitted by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia to "Proposal the Government of the Republic to initiate the amendment of the VAT Act" (653 OE). Please present a speech chair to Jaak Madison, member of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-18_U7	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, It is true that, including on 6 June, the Conservative People's Party Group presented the Riigikogu's decision to propose to the Government of the Republic to initiate the amendment of the VAT Act. We propose to amend Section 15 of the VAT Act, according to which the medicinal product, sanitary or hygiene product and the medical device intended for the personal use of a disabled person within the meaning of the Medical Device Act, as well as the medical device...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-18_U8	Good waitress, sorry! Ladies and gentlemen, I ask for silence in the Chamber. Thank you. Let's go!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-18_U9	... as well as a tool within the meaning of the Social Welfare Act and the granting of such a tool to a disabled person would be subject to VAT at 0%. The explanatory memorandum provides examples of European countries where medicines are subject to VAT at 0%, as well as a list of countries where they are taxed more favourably than in Estonia. There are very many countries with lower rates: in France, VAT on medicines is 2.1% and VAT on disability aids is 5.5%, in Spain 4%, and in Lithuania, it is 5%. There are different examples of European countries. Our group has considered it reasonable to propose to the Government of the Republic an amendment to the VAT Act, which will bring this VAT rate down to 0%. Speaking of history, when we joined the European Union, we set the rate of VAT on medicines at 5%, and in 2009 it was quadrupled to 20%. Then there was a general increase in the VAT rate from 18% to 20%. We believe that this is a necessary step to make medicines more favourable to people and, above all, to make special instruments more favourable to people with disabilities, which we all believe is an important objective. According to the calculations, it would cost nearly EUR 30 million. Given the entire state budget for next year, which is over EUR 11 billion, this is certainly not an insurmountable obstacle. The matter has also been discussed by the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the Committee on Social Affairs. The Committee on Monetary Affairs has referred to a European Union directive whose rules prohibit the setting of a 0% rate. We are aware of that. If, in its current form, the draft was adopted and proposed to the Government of the Republic in this respect, this would, of course, require a request for differentiation. However, if we do not get a speciality permit, several Member States of the European Union have it, then the option would be to reduce the VAT rate to 5%, which would be in line with European Union rules. The same problem has been pointed out by the Committee on Social Affairs, which has not formed a single opinion on this proposal. It is clear from the minutes that there were both pros and cons. The Social Affairs Committee also refers to the European Union Directive. In our opinion, it would in any case be elementary to go through the first reading so that the political groups can make amendments, for example, if they wish to replace the rate of 0% with 5% if they want to comply with the European Union directive. But we can also continue with a rate of 0% and apply for Estonia's distinction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-18_U10	Honourable waitress! No questions for you. I would like to ask for a chair of speech to report on the position of the Chair of the Monetary Commission, Mikhail Stalnukhin's commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-18_U11	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Finance dealt with this matter at two meetings: 10 September and 9 October. On September 10th, Aet Visitor's Life, he is the chief specialist in the Customs and Excise Department, clear that the Ministry of Finance explained what about VAT on medicines. Indeed, there are four countries in the European Union, one of them leaving sometime, with a zero rate. This was also the case in Great Britain and Ireland before their accession to the European Union, and two countries, Sweden and Malta, managed to negotiate this rate. That rate was included in the merger agreement. At the same time, although some countries might also want this zero rate, many simply use the reduced rate, just like Estonia. We in the Commission thought that the Committee on Social Affairs should know much more about the matter, and we addressed them with the question of how they feel about it. The answer was very constructive. At first it was said that it was not possible to set a zero rate, so there is not much to talk about. It was also described which measures would reduce the price of medicines in Estonia, and it was quite long and thorough. If anyone wants, I can read the list by answering the question. Decisions were taken: to appoint the chairman of the Commission as rapporteur and to propose that the reading be done here is just one reading, there is no first, there is no second and there is no third reading, that is the only reading, and that is to put the draft to the vote on 16 October. There was also a telephone meeting last Thursday: the Board of the Riigikogu turned to the members of the committee to ask whether everyone would agree to carry the first reading from Tuesday 16 October to the 18th. No one opposed, and so it happened. That'll be all. However, one more thing: this bill requires at least 51 votes for adoption.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-18_U12	Thank you. You have at least one question. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-18_U13	Good manager! Good waitress! You said to achieve a rate of 0% in these four countries is extremely complicated and the game doesn't deserve candles. But why does this VAT have to be at the level that it is now, 9%? Why can't it be lower? Is Estonia richer than other countries, or what is the reason?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-18_U14	Thank you for your question. Peter, I have a request for you: if I'm going to perform here, you're about to rephrase my words, but you might want to follow up on the text I'm reporting. Your first sentence absolutely doesn't answer what I actually said on the remote. With regard to the standard average rate of 5 to 6% in Europe, yes, that is something to think about. It's actually quite a small amount. I am, if I may say so, a major consumer of medicines. I've got some 9 to 10 pills on the menu every day. And frankly, when I go to the pharmacy and see how the bill, which is usually EUR 70 to 80, turns into EUR 45 to 50, I understand that working mechanisms that are much more beneficial than VAT would be 6% instead of 9%. It could be calculated which amount is, for example, EUR 80. But it's up to you to find out if it deserves candles or not. The question is that it is purely technically impossible for this draft to make these changes to the law. Those people who wrote this bill should, however, have checked how things are when it was being drafted, for example, ask the Social Affairs Committee staff or the Chairman for information on how it is at zero. If they had proposed a rate of 5% or 6%, we might have looked at this draft differently. So the question isn't whether the goal deserves candles or not. At the moment, that is technically impossible.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-18_U15	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-18_U16	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You stressed in your speech that you considered it necessary to refer the proposed amendment to the VAT law to the Committee on Social Affairs, that your competence, or the whole of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, was inadequate. However, in discussing the impact of quite large changes in excise duties on alcohol, you have never planned to turn to the Committee on Social Affairs, although ministers have repeatedly said that public health is the main interest in alcohol policy. You will discuss the rates of alcohol duty in the Committee on Monetary Affairs without the Social Affairs Committee being involved. Why such a selective attitude?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-18_U17	Thank you. Whenever we feel the need to involve another Riigikogu commission, we do so. But you've just confused something: my last name is Stalnukhin, not Tõniste. In his case, every conversation ends with you asking about alcohol duty. At this point, it does not come together at all with the bill in question, it is like night and day.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-18_U18	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-18_U19	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President of the Commission. I have a question about the Commission's debate. After all, we know that in Estonia, the state subsidies both medicines and aids and all medical devices. Was this also the case in the Commission? You are, for example, suggesting that only some countries have less VAT. Did you also discuss how much medicines are being subsidised, etc., in other European countries? And finally, how much of this VAT or all of this taxation could it be?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-18_U20	There are three of your political parties in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, all very intelligent, smart people. If they saw the need for us to analyze all of this and do, like, some doctoral thesis on this subject, they would definitely order this analysis.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-18_U21	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-18_U22	Thank you. The Cancer Treatment Fund "Consigned Life" receives an operating grant of EUR 90000 from the State. In 2017, they bought EUR 1.4 million of medicines for the people who needed this treatment, and they had to pay EUR 126000 of VAT on that amount. In short, the state receives 90000, but VAT costs 126000 euros. Wouldn't it be right to reduce this VAT?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-18_U23	I don't think this debate will be able to muffle the simple fact that this bill is a failure. There is no way to make that decision purely technically, to be honest. You can, of course, try to do that, but what's next with it, I can't imagine. And to talk now about arbitrary issues, whether alcohol excise or comparison with the whole of Europe, I do not see this need at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-18_U24	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-18_U25	Thank you, Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Honourable Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. It is understandable that perhaps you feel ridiculous comparisons with other European countries are, as if, not relevant at all. If that's what you think, it's every vigilante's right. But I am afraid that for most of the halls, it may seem very appropriate to compare ourselves with other European countries and to look at the VAT rates applicable to medicines and special equipment for people with disabilities. After all, these products are not comparable to ordinary food products or to harmful substances, which are subject to the exact same rate of VAT as those currently available to medicines and special equipment. You said that this bill, along with the explanatory memorandum, is absolutely zero, I do not know whether you believe the whole Committee on Monetary Affairs or personally. Therefore, for you, too, it is a complete zero-to-zero, I do not know whether I have understood correctly, correct me if I am wrong about the idea of applying for differentiation in the same way as the other Member States of the European Union. Is this a zero point for you, and is that the limit of your competence you are presenting here?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-18_U26	Thank you. No, that's not it. I will stand here and think about what your thinking is going to look like, I mean, Mr Vilja and you. How do you know how to spin words like that? How can you hear what no one's said in the hall? How can you not see your own arrogance, and how do you see the arrogance in replying constructively and in view of this text, the draft that we have?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-18_U27	Mr Madison, there is one question that can be asked when this draft is being dealt with. Mati Raidma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-18_U28	Thank you very much. As a result of the previous answer, I would like to ask: where have you had this arrogance to communicate with your colleagues in this way?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-18_U29	We have an absolutely different understanding of what is arrogance. In my opinion, it is arrogance to ask unprofessional questions in this Chamber. Arrogance is when they think we're so stupid, we fall for this provocation. So we just have different views of the world.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-18_U30	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-18_U31	Thank you. Mr. Waitress! I have this question: do you consider yourself such a professional finance expert that you can explain everything well here?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-18_U32	Thank you. I never said that.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-18_U33	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-18_U34	Thank you. Good Commissioner, are the opposition ambassadors able to get an adequate response from you, or are they always spiteful, evil and incompetent?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-18_U35	Thank you. You'll get the answers, but you have the right to twist them the way it's good for you. And that's what's going on.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-18_U36	Dear Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, Mikhail Stalnukhin, there are no further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Representatives of political groups and committees may take the floor. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-18_U37	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that there will be courage in all the political groups to vote against this draft rather than simply not to vote, even though it would be enough. It's still about the substance. EKRE is wrong about two principles here. Firstly, it violates the EU's tax policy regulations. It acts as if it were using a toy of some kind if we were to oppose Europe's prudent policy. Thoughtful policies do not really favour exceptions, but we show that Brussels has put some kind of yoke on us that will prevent us from making our decisions. In fact, however, this policy is behind the general desire for consumption taxes to support the single single market and not the exceptions. The second view is that making social policy through taxes is simply a waste. Fortunately, the Committee on Social Affairs has now also said so. Medicines are the most targeted goods, most evenly distributed by social group, from tax exemption objects. Consequently, unlike most tax exemptions, the benefits of this exemption do not benefit the wealthiest. The Committee on Social Affairs should also take this attitude with regard to other tax exemptions. However, the tax exemption for medicines is more imprecise and costly than the policy of subsidising medicines and regulating their market. Medicines could also be subject to a VAT rate of 20%, as they also have over-consumption. There is no need for all consumers to be subsidised. However, in the case of medicines, there are a lot of targeting instruments such as price negotiations, such as prescription medicines, such as general licensing and what the Committee on Social Affairs said: precise targeting. A person who needs a discount for the medicine will receive it. I do not want to speculate in any way on personal examples, but I suppose that a person who takes ten pills a day, as someone said here, will probably also receive this benefit on his income, so that he does not depend on the prices of medicines. If he needs it, he'll get that benefit. And that's an effective policy, not that they're just gonna take a wild shot at the VAT reduction. The EKRE deliberately misses the subject when it claims that it can be done that we lower taxes and increase subsidies. I can't do that! However, payment must be collected in such a way that it can be more accurately channelled. So the call is: dare to vote against! A very bad and misleading draft from every point of view! Although, yes, there are worse tax exemptions than it has been offered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-18_U38	Thank you. I understand that Mr Ernits wishes to speak on behalf of the EKRE Group. Then please come with a warrant.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-18_U39	Good manager! Colleagues! The bill that is here before you has already been ridiculed and shot down by the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Indeed, I don't take ten pills a day, and we're in different classes, but I think I have some common sense. When Mikhail Stalnukhin talks here about how I am distorting his words, it is his right. But I remembered how the bill 302 was discussed in this very hall last December. Remember that bunch? And when you read the verbatim charts I've read, you'll find thoughts: I don't drink beer, everything's under control. Remember what came out? I'm still talking about Latvia, this excise duty. It turned out to be a real crash, elasticity factors, and so on. And it just occurred to me that it really can't be done. Indeed, there are four countries in Europe where the VAT rate on medicines is 0%. In Estonia, it has been elevated from the original 5% to 9%. And now the Conservative People's Party Group came up with a noble draft to lower VAT on medicines. The proposed rate is zero, but Jaak Madison said it could be at least 5% or lower. Any intelligent person realizes that this is a good idea, although yes, maybe as we approach the norm, it's bullshit. When we look at the map of Europe, we look at the big and much more prosperous countries of us, be it France, be it Spain or Greece, we see that the idea is actually right. We should not talk about the United Kingdom because we were told that it was going to leave and not to mention it. You can always say the uniform is wrong. At the moment, the coalition's side is trying to say that the idea of lowering medicines, I am talking about only medicines, is wrong. I think it's very good if the coalition says so. In my opinion and in the view of the Conservative People's Party as a whole, this is the right way. It has been said that in times of economic crisis, VAT needs to be increased, and when the crisis comes down, the situation gets better, then the tax can be reduced. It hasn't been done. I think it should be done, even if the draft is not technical and can be laughed at. I wouldn't laugh. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-18_U40	Thank you. On behalf of the faction of the Mikhail Stalnukhin Central Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-18_U41	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Extract from the Social Committee's letter: 'The availability of medicines and medical devices for people is guaranteed by the full or partial payment of public funds for medicines. The decree of the Minister responsible for the field establishes a list of diseases for which medicinal products intended for treatment or relief are reimbursed by the sickness fund at a percentage of the benefit of 100. The Ministerial Regulation also establishes a list of diseases for which medicinal products intended for medical treatment or relief are reimbursed by the sickness fund at a percentage of the benefit of 75. Children between 4 and 16 years of age, disability and old-age pensioners and persons aged 63 and over will be reimbursed 90 per cent of the benefit. Medicinal products not included in the list of diseases may be included on the list of medicinal products with a percentage discount of 50%. For children under 4 years of age, the percentage of the discount shall be 100. To reduce and maintain the price of medicines, the Health Insurance Fund will enter into price agreements with pharmaceutical companies. In addition, an additional medical allowance is provided for. If the amount paid by the person for the purchase of medicinal products included in the list exceeds EUR 100 per calendar year, the sickness fund shall reimburse 50% of the excess of EUR 100. If the amount exceeds EUR 300, 90 per cent of the sum exceeding EUR 300 shall be reimbursed by the sickness fund. The Health Insurance Fund also takes over, to the extent and according to the procedures laid down in the legislation, the obligation to pay a fee for medical devices that are included in the medical devices list of the Health Insurance Fund. The conditions for reimbursement of medicinal products and medical devices are laid down in the Social Welfare Act. ' I was expecting someone from the Social Affairs Committee to come and say this so that it would be understandable how much has been done, with several coalitions. This is not the act of this coalition, this is not the act of the previous coalition. It's a process that's been going on for years. And to think that someone is going to revolutionise this area by reducing VAT from 9% to 6%, it is really ridiculous. And finally. The state supports to a large extent the purchase and rental of equipment necessary to maintain people's daily operational capacity and prevent damage from getting worse. Examples include bed mattresses, femoral prosthesis, toilet and shower seats, mobility equipment such as crutches and wheelchairs, care equipment, hearing aids, etc. for the prevention of beds. The State compensates children who have a specialist medical certificate or a prescribed disability, working-age persons with reduced or absent working capacity or a defined disability, and old-age persons. The conditions for reimbursement of aids are laid down in the Social Welfare Act. That's a list of everything you're gonna be compensated for. It's going to cost a lot of money, incomparably more than what you're offering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-18_U42	Thank you. I'm closing the negotiations. No amendments to the draft decision were tabled. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, the approval of this draft decision requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu, so we will carry out a verification of the presence. 45 members of the Riigikogu are present, 56 are missing. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu, submitted by the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, entitled 'Proposal to the Government of the Republic to initiate the amendment of the VAT Act' 653. Please take a stand and vote. There were 6 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the draft decision, 19 against, 2 abstentions, 19 members of the Riigikogu did not take part in the vote. The decision was not supported. The agenda for the Thursday sitting has been exhausted. Good luck! Closure of the sitting at 10.37 a.m.
