ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-19_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Have a nice and festive week for all of you! We will begin the Monday session of the 6th working week of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Transfer of enquiries and drafts. On behalf of the Government of the Republic, Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-19_U2	Honourable Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic initiates a draft law amending the Aliens Act. In processing this bill in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of the Interior Andres Anvelt. Happy birthday to all of us!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-19_U3	I have adopted one bill, and we will continue to deal with it under the Home and Working Procedures Act. Incoming check, please! 78 members of the Riigikogu are present in plenary today. Adoption of the agenda. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the agenda for the sixth working week of the VII plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. 78 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of approving the agenda, no one opposed, one was impartial. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-19_U4	According to the agenda, an inquiry is scheduled today by Andres Herkel, Artur Talvik, Külliiki Kübarsepp, Krista Aru, Jüri Adams, Andres Ammas, Monika Haukanõm and Ain Lutsepp. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-19_U5	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu and Minister! The interviewers also welcome everyone for a big and important birthday week, but we certainly have a lot of business to do during this week. One of them relates to the state border. Even before the information came to the public that the sums that we thought would be needed so far to build up a state border would prove to be much larger in reality, and before the Government of the Republic itself confirmed that the deadline for building up would shift much further, there was one piece of information that concerned the border strip needed to build a state border. In fact, it became apparent that this would require the purchase of additional land from the owners in order to build a 10 metre wide border. This information came to the public in mid-January, and we responded by making an inquiry. One of the countries' buy-out processes was just over, all these complicated negotiations, reaching an agreement with the owners. We had a very big question about how it could not be planned at the beginning and the width of the wrong border strip was planned. And now that the process is complete, new negotiations will be opened with the owners. It's like it starts all over again. I would like to point out here that Mr Anvelt is not the first to answer questions from members of the Free Party. In 2016, I think it was in April that Mr Pevkur, Minister of the Interior, who is currently in the Chamber, answered these questions in connection with the buy-out process for the first border strip. So the background to all these questions is the misunderstanding that this pinch is coming from. Why have alternative, flexible solutions not been sought by negotiating with owners, be it servitude, building rights? To what extent is this necessary? And, of course, here comes the questions that came out a few weeks later when it turned out that the whole Eastern border was going to be much more expensive than the original estimates. I think that these issues are largely interlinked. I also mention here that I have asked the Minister for the Interior a written question about the increase in this cost. 15 minutes ago, the answer had not yet arrived, but I hope that it will arrive with the Minister and you will agree to extend the matter considerably. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-19_U6	Andres Anvelt, Minister of the Interior, will answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-19_U7	Good President of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! First of all, my greetings and congratulations on our Republic's anniversary week! But life is full of routines and problems, and you've asked me about them. I think the best thing to do is read the question and then answer it. The first question: "What are the compelling reasons for buying out additional lands? On the basis of what analyses and when was it decided to extend it by another 10 metres? 'In the design process, two test sections of 3.2 km have been established on which the monitoring and surveillance equipment will be installed as it will be throughout the entire developed boundary in the future. The elements to be built on the border strip are border posts, animal barrier fences, barrier fences, trackbands, different bridges and sails, and technical monitoring and surveillance systems. Yes, the existing ten-metre border band is planned to be extended until I emphasize the word 'up', because everything depends on the natural environment in a particular place to have to be extended to 40 metres. Thus, more land is bought at a time, by hedgehogs of up to 30 metres wide, in an inland direction. Strips with a maximum width of 30 metres are usually purchased only in the case of wooded area. This is particularly so as to avoid falling trees on infrastructure. It may also be possible to limit the cultivated area to an existing cut of 10 metres in width. When designing and establishing test sections, it is concluded that 4 metres should be left between the animal barrier fence and the border, where there is a possible border ditche, border post and geodetic boundary line designation, 16 metres of border strip for infrastructure for the animal barrier fence, sand strip, delay fence, monitoring positions, underground cable route, patrol track paths and road slopes and boundary line turning points. A 20-metre safety zone is generally necessary to prevent trees from falling inland, but certainly also for manoeuvring during construction activities and to ensure better border protection. When establishing the test section, the contractor has identified bottlenecks in relation to the width of the border strip, which affect the time, cost and future management of construction activities. The most critical places are where the border line rotates to a very large number of places there, and there is no way to build patrols on a 10 metre strip, as there is a border post and a guard position at this turning point, and the road axis must also be smooth. At present, there are still quite a number of such sections, where the distance between the zoo and the state border is less than 1 metre. This strip, however, is necessary for future maintenance, i.e. trimming and cutting. There must be a minimum of 3 metres between the zoo and the holding fence, while the advice of specialists is up to 5 metres. When construction works are carried out, the machines can move in practically one track. This means that during the construction of patrol routes, the site cannot be operated at the same time by the builders of communication routes or other facilities. The implementation of the full potential of technical monitoring and surveillance systems requires a wider border band. There is a need for 10 metres at the turning points of the border line. Deforestation of the entire forest has been carried out in a very narrow 10-metre corridor along most of the border strip and, as a result, a "wind corridor" has been created in the border strip between dense forests, between Estonian and Russian forests. In the wind corridor, however, there is a risk that storm winds will lower trees at the edge of the border strip, which are on average 15 to 20 metres high. So the thing is, the construction environment in this area is very complicated. I'm sure you're well aware of that. The big problem is surface water, which did not appear in the initial geodesy work. Based on experience, and on the recommendation of the Office of Agriculture, many of the extra-project loyalties were built to guide water under the road. These loyalties need to be added to the construction work ahead. Not all things can be foreseen and it is not possible to carry out geodesy on the part of the Russian Federation either. Thus, data on water behaviour are partial and, in some cases, presumed. The whole border strip is located in a very difficult landscape, with a lot of uneven elevation. There are bushes, swamps and indigenous forests where there is no human activity. A total of seven kilometers is a mooring. The border strip runs along the streams and rivers and ditches, and the soil is predominantly too wet. The 10-metre wide boundary strip does not allow ditching to channel water. The idea is to dig ditches on the inland side of the border patrol route. At the same time, it is not permitted to build a line of longitudinal moorings on the hinterland of the border strip on the area of private storage. But, as I said, the main risk is the forest that grows right near the border strip, and trees can fall on surveillance equipment. It is estimated that the amount of one of these losses, including labour costs, is EUR 15000 to EUR 20000. However, there is no legal basis for cutting down trees along the border strip. The second question: 'How much money has so far been spent on buying out border countries on the basis of the state budget and how much additional spending is planned? 'A total of approximately EUR 470000 has been spent, of which EUR 348000 for transactions and EUR 121000 for transactions. So this is evaluation, surveying, notary services. A total of EUR 939757 is planned to be spent on the acquisition of land. At the same time, a wider border strip directly helps to save construction costs of almost EUR 900000, as the construction site has space and can perform several construction works at once, store construction materials and store technology. In addition, thanks to better visibility, money can be saved from monitoring techniques as well as later border strip maintenance. The third question: "What damage and inconvenience do the owners of border countries suffer from the purchase of land in several sections by ten metres wide hedgehogs? What are you assessing in this connection the additional administrative burden of the State (separate costs of labelling, surveying, completion of cuts, etc.) and how does such "incandescent" affect the ownership of the property? " The owners of the border countries are communicated, negotiated, informed. Yes, it is uncomfortable, but at the same time there has been a transfer of land with the agreement of the parties. Owners generally understand that building a state border is essential. Rather, the low market price of the region's land will be complained about, but in order to compensate for this, we will pay a compensation of EUR 1000 in addition to the market value of the land and forest units to be cut off by all land owners, and we will, of course, bear all the costs associated with the transaction. The administrative costs amount to 1/4 of the costs planned for the disposal of the land, which is EUR 230000. Land transfers are expected to be completed during this year. Question 4: 'If the problem relates to possible false alarms arising from the activities of border guards in a country close to the border, why are there no more flexible arrangements for resolving the situation? Why have other possible solutions, such as building rights, servitude, etc., not been discussed in addition to the purchase and expropriation of land to the state from the outset? ' Landowners in the border area are not an obstacle to border surveillance. Instead, this relates to the need to ensure that the border strip is established and the infrastructure monitoring techniques set up at the border are safe. Other options have been discussed and various proposals have been made to landowners, and one servitude has also been put in place. On the other hand, if the immovable property is loaded with a compulsory possession, the remuneration received for its endurance shall be taxed on the income tax but, if the immovable property is expropriated, the consideration received for it shall not be taxed on the income tax. Thus, the acquisition of the land by the State is more profitable to the owner. Question 5: 'As the Riigikogu has been pending for a long time, SE 269 p. Under 1 it is planned to provide: 'The border strip is situated on land from the land border towards the interior along a ten-metre-wide border. On the natural boundary line, the boundary strip has a straight line connecting the hinterland slopes of the border river, stream or road along the border line and a ten-metre wide strip of land towards the hinterland. ', then we want to know which wider strip will allow legislative changes to be brought before the Riigikogu. " On 5 December 2017, the Ministry of the Interior submitted amendments to the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu, asking for the 10 meter border band to be cancelled and set out as necessary by a decree of the Government of the Republic. I will read an extract from the proposal of the Ministry of Internal Affairs: 'The border strip is located at the external border from the state border of the area, along the river or stream of border or inland from the border road, where only activities relating to the maintenance and control of the border mark and the border strip and the repair and maintenance of the state border surveillance or communication crossing the state border are permitted. ' And also, 'The width of the border strip is determined by the Government of the Republic by its order, given the need for the design of the border strip and its elements, the area of infrastructure safety and natural conditions. ' For me, for now, everything. I'll wait for your additional questions and try to answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-19_U8	Questions for the Minister of the Interior. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-19_U9	Thank you. First of all, did I get it right that about the same amount is added to the EUR 470000 that has already been spent? You said, when I was right to notice that 939000 things are going to go together to buy out the land. But then there's the question, what line does this extension of the strip from the whole border involve? I realized at first that this plan only covers problematic places, but summing up these figures gives the impression that it covers everything. In what way do we have a different approach to border construction than Latvia, which has perhaps somehow been perfected with its own things? It seems to me that the amount we put in there is still huge. Is this gonna be the best and most enduring line in the world?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-19_U10	Thank you. There were two questions about your question. First question. Yes, you are right, in total, we are planning to spend EUR 939757 on the acquisition of land. In order to illustrate this a little bit, I also note that, given that 184 hectares are divided into 136 kilometres of land, on average, we ask for a border in an inland direction of 13.5 square metres per metre. This means that some places really need 40 more, some places have nothing more. On the basis of the current valuations, the price per square metre in the region is 10 cents and, in the 184 hectares to be bought, land is not only necessary for the expansion of the border strip, but also for the installation of land for access routes and border surveillance infrastructure. I mean, electrical and communication cables. The second question concerned Latvia. Indeed, Latvia has not undertaken the construction of the border in such a capitulated manner. First of all, he does it in small pieces. His line is much longer. Latvia is now starting to reach 29 km with additional funding. If you take all their land borders and look at these costs, the whole border costs will be more or less the same as we do. The only thing is, they have a footpath. The garden they use is essentially a consumer garden, which certainly does not have a high level of security. They also make a significant contribution to the human patrol, while the Latvian border guard has a much larger human resource than we do. It's their choice. I dare say that if our goal is that the border can withstand at least one generation, then at least a preliminary look at their facility will say that they will do so with a much shorter-term guarantee. Maybe they've figured it out to set up a new garden after a while. If we want the delay garden to remain on land with changing nature for decades, then a normal garden will certainly not be enough to do so. Once again, it's their choice. Our choice is to keep the border in place so that there is no temporary construction.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-19_U11	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-19_U12	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! Do you honestly admit that during your predecessor's time, this border construction was done for a couple of years with election ads and a show? To me, it is incomprehensible how, three and a half years after the beginning of this great construction, it was determined that an additional 10 1⁄2 feet [10 1⁄2 m] wide border band was needed. At first, no studies or projects were carried out, didn't they?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-19_U13	Thank you. In 2014-2015, the Police and Border Guard Board took into account all the objective and subjective circumstances known to them, in order to come up with the correct calculations, this is demonstrated by our internal audit, which is currently in full swing. I have the first mid-term reviews on the table at the beginning of March. As far as this ten-metre-wide boundary strip is concerned, now we really see the need for it to be wider. This requirement was particularly clear after the test sections had been completed. Already during the construction of these test sections, it was evident that if we want to move forward at a faster pace and ensure that the cost of later maintenance of the border is not very high, then the border band must be extended at times because of its natural nature.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-19_U14	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-19_U15	Before I go to my question, I can assure my colleague Kaskpeit that there was no election show. There was a real need to fix Estonia's border. Only and only the expert assessment and the best knowledge available at the time of the PPP and the Ministry of the Interior. But, Andres, I'd be happy to ask you this. Is it possible to build a border faster than the estimated seven or eight years, as the new PPP estimate is, and as you yourself said on TV, when these land for the construction of the border strip is available? Is it a purely financial decision that construction is divided into eight years?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-19_U16	Thank you. In the case of border construction, the entire border infrastructure must be divided into two parts. One is physical infrastructure, the same as the 135 km border, and the other is the technological cover, or surveillance and surveillance systems, that come up there. Building specialists, on the basis of all studies carried out within two years at the design company, and also on the basis of the facts that have emerged from the construction of the test sections, have clearly stated that the minimum period for the construction of the physical infrastructure of the border is three years. That's the minimum time! Due to various climatic circumstances, it may be added for one year. So we are now taking a very pragmatic approach to the prospect that the physical infrastructure of the border can be built in three years at best, at least four years at most. As regards the installation of surveillance and surveillance equipment there, this work can be started after the physical infrastructure parts have been completed and does not have to last for seven or eight years, but may last. These issues will come back to the Cabinet in May when we have received expert advice from Frontex. By then, I will also have the results of my audit. It is my very clear wish that the border construction will proceed as soon as possible. The question is that the additional need for physical infrastructure is around EUR 17 million per year, in addition to what is currently allocated. Technological surveillance requires an estimated 10 to 11 million. These are the amounts that specialists have put out. Basically, it is possible to complete the border in four years. During this period, physical infrastructure will reach the point where it is already possible to install surveillance and surveillance techniques.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-19_U17	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-19_U18	Mr. Minister! My question is about the gardens that prevent animal movements. As far as I've seen the wire mesh on the Russian side, when it's intact, I don't think any animal bigger than that fox can get through. But what is to be built now? I understand that there are two different wire fences on the Estonian side, the other on the animals. What kind of animals should it hold, and why should it hold? And how will it be at the water bodies, such as Lake Hino, when animals come in the same way? Are there any long-term obstacles to the north, the Narva River, from which animals can swim or cross the ice in winter?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-19_U19	Thank you. The Narva River and the lake are also covered by surveillance techniques. There will also be a patrol track near the Narva River, where border guards can move in parallel with the river. As long as it doesn't exist, patrols will be patrolled by patrol boats. As far as the south-east border is concerned, all the opinions of environmental experts were also taken into account in the preparation of the border project. There are places where animals can move through the border area. One example you gave yourself when you referred to the inland waters on which animals can cross the border along the shoreline. These places, too, are equipped with surveillance techniques so that we can be sure that those crossing the border are still animals. Why is an animal barrier and a separate delay fence necessary? The reason is very simple. After all, the delay garden is a very expensive facility, it also carries a surveillance technique and cannot be damaged by animals. It is therefore preceded by an animal barrier. And man is also an animal in some sense, so I suppose it will also stop some people who may not want to cross the border with malice.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-19_U20	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-19_U21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! In 2015 there was also a dissemination of the knowledge in this Chamber that the money from the felling forest will more or less be used to build a state border and there will be no significant costs. What happened to this forest, and has it really been used, or will it be used in the future to build a state border?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-19_U22	Thank you. I can't tell you what your memories are on. As far as I can remember, we were talking about the fact that in the deforestation of the border area, RMK basically makes offsetting. RMK was talking about clearing the border area, and this timber is going to be realised. The Ministry of the Interior doesn't store this wood anywhere, and as it was meant to be, it's gone. The border construction is paid for with this not the most valuable timber money, well, it is also theoretically impossible.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-19_U23	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-19_U24	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Now, when it was discovered that this border band was too narrow and that a whole lot of countries had to be bought into expansion and further roads, did we discuss simply putting servings in one way?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-19_U25	Thank you. I have already mentioned it before, but once again I stress that landowners do not really want it. Only one servitude has been set. There is also a question of income tax. If the immovable property is expropriated, the holder of the income tax shall not have to pay. If the immovable property is burdened by a compulsory order, the remuneration received for it must be subject to income tax. So the landowners haven't shown any interest in it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-19_U26	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-19_U27	Thank you, Chairman. Good minister! In 2015, the PBGB suggested that it would take about three years to build the entire border. Now the price has risen and, as you said, the estimated construction period has increased to four years. Usually, when more money is put in, you can build faster. What is the reason that longer time is foreseen? Is this linked, for example, to the balance of the state budget or other problems?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-19_U28	Thank you. We are still starting with the fact that the detailed design of the south-east border, starting in 2015 and completed in 2017, together with all the studies, has given us a realistic view. Now, speaking of why everything is going to be so much more expensive, to your colleague Herkel, I also explained in my written reply why. But I can go over this one more time real quick. The highest price increase has come from the same land improvement works and other land works, where the estimated price is 126 million instead of the initial EUR 47.8 million. A great deal of work is involved in soil remediation, such as the disposal of surface water and the establishment of access routes in order to enable the border area to be maintained. In the past, the number of connection points for electricity supply and the associated buildings needed to maintain the technical monitoring and surveillance system had not been taken into account at all. In addition, there are a number of other works that make the construction of the border considerably more expensive. There are bogs and bogs that need to use different methods. In some places, we certainly take nature as an ally, as they say. Some sections can be covered, for example, by pontoons, some places can be made with simpler patrol tracks, which do not even have an ATV track because it is too expensive, but can make concessions in such a way that security requirements are not violated. As far as construction time is concerned, as I said earlier, it is theoretically possible to build a border in four years. I also support this idea. But the cabinet will come to this issue again in May, once we have assessed the effectiveness of the project and all the circumstances involved. On Thursday, we discussed that at the border construction stage, we are now moving forward with all the work that has already been started. The reserve has also allocated money, so that if there is a need for additional money in the years 2020-2021, it will be. For these first major works, there are financial resources.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-19_U29	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-19_U30	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! When we discussed the same subject here in this Chamber a year and a half ago, the big question was that the landowners were a little upset, that the prices offered to them and the communication at all were not the most adequate. What is the current relationship with landowners? After all, they have learned that perhaps more land is being transferred from them. The second question is that we have been talking about different costs, but I imagine that the border section we are still building needs to be monitored more closely than the border that is already ready. There's more security holes right now. What are the costs of guarding or monitoring the border sections that are still under construction?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-19_U31	Thank you. The current costs of border surveillance are the same routine costs that have been incurred in recent years. First of all, we don't have a new border yet, we cover it, as they say, with mobile surveillance equipment, patrols. So there's no big change right now. Certainly, when the major construction begins, we will review the current arrangements and discuss the risks associated with the construction of the border. As far as landowners are concerned, the first question for me was, after I arrived at the Ministry of the Interior, how we are negotiating with them. Land ownership is sacred, and people must not feel touched in any way that they have been unrighteous. In conclusion, I think we have achieved a good constructive solution. After all, we are also paying them an additional compensation of EUR 1000, because the price of land there is very cheap. I will be honest with you that there has also been not the most understanding attitude: it has been desired to exchange land, see that there is a plot in the centre of Tallinn and that other solutions have been asked for. We haven't gone out for anything like this, we've come to a compromise with everyone. Even now, we do not make any purchases that we do not necessarily need. We will only do them with the aim of ensuring that the border strip is well guarded and, once again, I would stress that in the future the cost of maintenance will be as low as possible. These additional countries will help to save around EUR 1 million as originally estimated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-19_U32	No further questions for the Home Secretary. Thank you, Andres Anvelt! I'm opening negotiations. Andres Herkel, first of all, on behalf of the heirs, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-19_U33	Honourable Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Yes, the rule is that the representative of the interviewers will speak first, but Hanno Pevkur will also come to give a speech after me and maybe to provide answers. Very many of the questions that we addressed to the current minister are still beginning with the previous minister and the assessments made at the time. I would like to thank Minister Anvelt for having ordered an audit which should clarify this matter. And if there's an answer to my written question, it's a good one. I haven't gotten any closer to my correspondence yet, obviously this response has come just before the hearing. But if land improvement work, which was to take EUR 47.8 million, costs more than 120 million, I may not have been able to quite memorize it, it is still a huge difference. How is that possible? Even if the time for analysis was short, how is it possible to obtain so hugely different amounts of money? It seems to me that this is also some very important shift in the concept of border protection. In the old days, it was understood that when the border is in the swamp and moor, it is difficult to cross and therefore more protective. Now apparently the request is to completely drain the area and build up the same network with all the facilities on the test strip of a few kilometres. It seems to me that sometimes the feasibility of this solution has not been fully discussed. In addition, it seems to be such a strange syndrome in Estonia that some kind of assessment is initially made, some sort of financial dimension is put in place, and then the update turns out that it is still going to be tens of millions more expensive. I had a discussion today in a committee about the implementation of the Skiis2. There is, like, a very similar problem: a project is being made, it is not going to be able to assess its growth in time, and then it has to be explained why it did not come out and why it costs so much more. And there is another problem with all of this: if the parties already see that nothing is going to work out, they will not be afraid to admit it immediately, and this delay will cost the Estonian state and taxpayers even more. Now specifically from the border. The situation that separate negotiations buy out strip of land from owners is certainly uncomfortable for owners, but it is also uncomfortable for the state. One process just ended, and now we're starting another process. Of course, the fact that the whole border is being built more expensive is behind this message. We look forward to what happens next and how we are approaching our goal. But there seems to be some kind of systemic error in these assessments, so we look forward to the results of the Internal Affairs Department's own audit. And although the border is undoubtedly an extremely important facility, perhaps more consideration could still be given to what is most practical in one border law or another and how to find the most economical solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-19_U34	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-19_U35	Ladies and gentlemen, The border could be discussed for a long time, and maybe the Riigikogu's home and operating procedures would require the possibility that the members of the Riigikogu also ask each other questions so that we can ask each other. But we don't have corridors for that. Now, strangely enough, I want to start by thanking the government for a sensible decision. In any case, the Estonian state needs a border and the Estonian state deserves a proper border. And that can't at all be a question of whether or not the border is being built. Now, the focus of this inquiry is to buy the land needed for the border strip. When we went back in time, we were guided by the best expert knowledge available at the time. Now it's just become more accurate. The goal of buying border strip lands was one: as little land as possible to buy from people. To buy as little as possible and as much as necessary, this was the goal. The best knowledge of the time that came from the PBA and the Home Office officials was that the border strip must be ten metres wide. And that's what it was about. But don't forget, it doesn't mean 10 meters everywhere. In a riverbed, it may even be 100 metres wide in some places. But the minimum necessary was thought to be the ten meters, and these lands were to be acquired. Everything was done according to the best of knowledge, as it is now. The surprises of building the border are certainly not over yet. I don't know any politicians or experts who, by telling the media about the construction of a border or any object, would immediately know what it will cost. At the same time, the public needs to know these things and there is no hope for anyone to fail to ask how much our border costs or how much the Tallinn Prison costs or how much the School of Fine Arts costs. Whatever they're going to build, they always ask how much they cost. These estimates will certainly become more accurate over time. Maybe the minister's gonna come up with a remote after once more. He'll decide for himself. But perhaps he can confirm that a great deal of knowledge has been gained thanks to the construction of the test strip and that it is now more geologically known, for example, how much peat soil there is. As Andres has already said, the soil is very, very different there. In some places there is a swamp and in some places there is a river, in some places there is a bog, in some places there is sandy. There's a very different soil. And, of course, it is therefore not easy to construct the border of the Estonian state. In time, we will gain that knowledge. Whether we get so much smarter that we see the need to pay EUR 118 million or some other amount, I also dare not confirm anything to the current minister. Seeing how everything changes in time, it is clear that the final cost will be known when there are construction procurements. And even then, the real last amount doesn't even know about construction procurement can come with extra jobs or whatever. But what is important? What is important is that the Estonian state is building this border. And it is not only a land border of 135 kilometres, it is also from Narva-Jõesuu to the so-called three-point point of Estonia, Latvia and Russia. That's the most important thing to know. I repeat, there will be more expert knowledge over time. My recommendation to all politicians, including journalists and other interested parties, is that I think it is unnecessary to look for those who are responsible for all of this. As the PBA has said: they did not have the knowledge that this project could stretch so much. I am now recalling these meetings, which were attended by both experts and designers. Nordecon, as we know, won the design procurement and they said they'd be ready in a year. It turned out, however, that the design went so far beyond the deadline that it was only completed at the end of last year. An object of this size will inevitably be dragged out. Certainly, the Minister of the Interior will be able to go here many more times before the Riigikogu to tell us about the state of construction of the eastern border, from Anvelt or in the future. So, mind and common sense! And let us trust and believe more people who deal with it every day! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-19_U36	The members of the Riigikogu have no further wish for negotiation. The Minister doesn't have one either. Let's consider this question answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-19_U37	Free mike. There are no speakers. Have a good week at work. Closure of the sitting at 15.48 p.m.
