ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U1	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu. The Tuesday session of the 12th working week of the VIIIth plenary session has begun. There is now a procedure for the referral of drafts and enquiries. Please, Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I have a draft to pass on the Riigikogu's decision to propose to the Government of the Republic, which provides for sanctions to be imposed in relation to the attacking and grabbing of Ukrainian bases in the Strait of Kerch. It was very right that the Riigikogu reacted quickly and adopted a statement which also stressed the need to extend sanctions. This initiative has not been very strong internationally, but Estonia has the opportunity to do all this itself. These individuals are also mentioned in this draft: one General, one Rear Admiral and members of the State Duma, Colonel Piskarov and Alexei Pushkov, Chairman of the Information Policy Committee. To be honest, it was quite difficult for us to find those characters who do not already have European Union sanctions on them. But we think these people are very closely linked to the events of the Kerch Strait. Only a group can submit such a draft in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, but I am pleased that it was symbolically signed by Mart Nutt and Henn Põljaas. The three of us are members of the Riigikogu who have been banned from entering the Russian Federation. I think we are absolutely right, given these events, to retaliate. If someone thinks that the Riigikogu is unable to deal with these matters quickly, then it can be done in the same way as one of the drafts that we are dealing with today, that the manager will immediately take a break, the commission will decide and we will be able to deal with the draft here before the Riigikogu's work is exhausted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U3	Ladies and gentlemen, If we agreed that if the hall lowers its volume from position 8 to position 6, for example, then the speaker in front of the microphone doesn't have to raise his volume from, say, the 5th to the 9th? Let's listen to Raivo Aeg. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U4	Ladies and gentlemen, I wish to hand over to the Board of the Riigikogu the draft law amending the Order of the Defence Forces Act. On 9 October and 13 November 2018, the Special Committee on Security Authorities Supervision, together with the National Defence Commission and representatives of the relevant ministries, discussed this draft. The Special Committee on Supervision of Security Authorities approved the text of the draft law and explanatory memorandum at its extraordinary session today and decided to initiate the draft law. In principle, the purpose of the draft is to grant the Defence Forces additional rights to carry out the task of background control for the purpose of carrying out the task as well as to verify the reliability of persons involved in human resources intelligence. In addition, provision is made for additional measures to be taken by the Defence Forces' facilities and within the Defence Forces' territory to take security measures and to prevent security incidents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U5	On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two drafts, and we will process them in accordance with the Riigikogu Home and Working Procedures Act. Ladies and gentlemen, presence check, please! 75 delegates will take part in the meeting.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U6	Today's first item is the second reading of Bill 710 of the Government of the Republic Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Act amending other laws (Connecting the Environmental Board and the Environmental Inspectorate). Mr. Andres Metsoja, member of the Environment Committee, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U7	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Indeed, I can talk about what happened to this bill between two readings. I have at my disposal the minutes of the Commission sitting No 177. At this meeting, minor changes were made to administrative and state reform and this draft was discussed again. It should be noted that the draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 8 October 2018, the first reading was completed on 13 November and the deadline for submitting amendments was set at 16 a.m. on 27 November. The members of the Riigikogu, political groups and other committees did not propose any amendments to the draft. The Committee on the Environment decided to present an amendment to the draft, motivated by the proposal of the Chancellor of the Ministry of the Environment, Meelis Münd, or Ministry. This amendment amends the date of entry into force of the Act and, in this context, the deadlines for organising the merger laid down in § 10514 "Organization of the Environmental Board and the Environmental Inspectorate', which are included in the Government of the Republic Act. The draft contains linguistic and technical specifications which in no case alter the content of the draft. The Committee on the Environment asked questions to Meelis Münd. One of the important issues was the organisation of the work of the Agency. Meelis Münt replied that, in the meantime, the selection of the heads of the support departments of the joint institution had been dealt with, as well as the new Director's competition. Plus the location of the source. Meelis Münt confirmed that Pärnu will be the legal address of the new Environmental Board. The Steering Committee also made decisions and proposals. The Committee on the Environment decided to send the draft to the Riigikogu for a second reading today and to propose that the second reading be stopped. If the second reading is completed, it is, of course, proposed that the draft be sent to the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U8	There are questions for the waitress, such as the Külliki Hatter. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U9	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good Commission waitress! In recent days, so-called opponents' announcements have become active, so that you do not support this draft. One of the most substantive arguments that I have plucked out of them is the complaint that the Environmental Board will issue permits and that if now the Environmental Inspectorate, which should check the permits granted by the current Environmental Board, will become blurred. What would be the Commission's response to this claim that there might be a risk that the separation of powers would dissipate?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U10	Thank you, good questioner! In fact, there are two aspects. One concerns general legislation. I must admit that we in the Committee on the Environment are quite often in a situation where laws or regulations have a grey area, often due to changes in this area. One of these issues is always fishing, because changing traps creates a situation in which fishermen should be fined. Then we often sit together in the Committee on the Environment and discuss how to deal with this situation sensibly. In fact, fishermen can't always say that, but often, they have behaved in good faith and in the knowledge that the damage to the environment is not dominant. That's one side of it. The other half of the matter really concerns a specific case-by-case approach, when the Environmental Board has given a kind of positive message that it can do so, but knowledge has emerged from somewhere or is a third party who knows that this should not actually have been the case. Look, we haven't found a good answer. Wisdom generally reaches people's minds by working together, not by painting a corner. Our vision in the Committee on the Environment, as well as in the Ministry's vision, has been that these activities need to be combined more closely. It is true that the procedural side must be kept separate, so it cannot be that the person who gives the permission also controls it. But there are separate mechanisms to regulate it. Of course, there must also be supervision in every institution, and there can be no other way.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U11	Please, Laine Randjärv!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U12	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! I may have a bit of a trivial question, but the devil is often in detail. The aim is to optimize, say, leadership to make it more dynamic, and optimize the composition of all the agencies. Exactly how many people will lose their jobs during this unification, how many will be laid off and how much will it cost? Any optimization is certainly quite expensive at first. In addition to the cost of redundancy, any other restructuring will be carried out. We've heard of institutions where reprogramming costs, I don't know, hundreds of thousands. How much does it cost to make this new brand together?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U13	Thank you. We have been answered in such a way that no one directly loses their jobs. The functions will certainly be reviewed and the two institutions will be merged in the first phase. Of course, when a new leader starts to lead, one person will run this joint institution along with all its departments and its hierarchies, then time will be discussed. As regards the change of name and its cost, we have been assured that it will not entail any sci-fi costs. True, the forms must be changed and the subject must be dealt with, but there will be no dizziness.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U14	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U15	Thank you, good vice chairman. I will continue my question in this way: is there a clear mechanism for the verification of the new U.S.A. and who will carry out this verification? Have you told the committee what the "regularity" of control is, the frequency?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U16	Thank you. Such cross-institutional control is certainly based on the National Audit Office. The National Audit Office has also said in its audit that they see as positive that these two institutions are being merged. This has also been the proposal of the National Audit Office. But the National Audit Office is certainly not the one who carries out day-to-day supervision. For this purpose, monitoring units have been set up within the organisation: internal auditors, who point out and point to problems. If there's anything criminal, the following authorities are already working on it. This logic is based on the general framework.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U17	Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U18	Thank you. Putting the regulator and the controller under a single roof in an organisational manner entails a high risk of conflict of interest. I realized from the report that there are some fine mechanisms that are still building it between the walls. Can you be more specific about how this new office is expected to be resolved?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U19	I guess this subtle mechanism is the loyalty and competence of people in these areas, and nothing else can really resist it. We also know from previous examples, when institutions are connected, placed under one roof, that identity problems will still arise. People sense they've been torn apart from something. This emotional side is very strong, but it cannot in any way be expressed in goals; it cannot remain dragged along, but it must help people to survive in a sense by bringing the organization to a new level. But I think so, speaking of these walls between the two organisations in terms of conflict of interest, that this border is already blurred. You've all received a letter about the bill. The Estonian Forest Help has given examples, and they believe that this problem exists today. If it exists today, it must be dealt with so that it is not tomorrow.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U20	Please, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U21	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! I'm gonna have to adjust a few of the previous questioners first. It is not quite accurate that these risks and threats are being brought to the attention only now. When we look at the first reading of this draft, which took place on 11 November in this very Chamber, it is clear that the debate was quite long and most of the questions that have now arisen were asked then. I have to say that the possibility of a problem or a risk, if the controller and the licensing authority are not just in one house in the future, but in one institution, they are still in the air. I have unfortunately not received an answer today on how this problem will be taken off accurately, how it will be ensured that this threat and risk do not materialise. Can you speak it out again in terms of substance? The importance of joining each other is clear anyway. But here we're not just adding two institutions, we're adding two institutions with different functions.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U22	Thank you. We have indeed asked these questions in the Commission. Both the Head of the Environmental Board and the Head of the Environmental Inspectorate have been behind the table and they have made it very clear that they do not see the problem. The fact that there is no problem here and it is possible to channel this issue very clearly, both managerially and legally, shows what happened at the prosecutor's office, where institutions have been brought together in a single house in the context of the performance of different functions and things work. Often, political statements have indeed been considered to be a risk and a very high risk. But I will come to the conclusion once again that it depends on the competences of the people, certainly on internal control, and also on legislation. However, these things must be seen in aggregate and certainly not solved in the context of this individual case from this Chamber. Today's leaders in the field say it can be done. This is confirmed by the Ministry and confirmed by various parties, and I trust them.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U23	Mati Raidma.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U24	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Can you comment a little on the issue of the removal of this new institution from Tallinn? Has this been discussed? You said no one's losing their jobs. Have all the people working in the institution agreed to leave Tallinn?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U25	Thank you. I'm coming forward from the back. It is certainly not possible to reform the country so that we decide today and do it tomorrow. It is a question of perspective, it is a matter of objectives, and the end result depends on how to organise the work so that the Estonian state is in several places, not just in Tallinn. I think the decision to extend the unit in Pärnu makes sense. It certainly cannot be done so that we give the law a green light from here and the next day, the leader sits at the table with the people of the departments and says, "Who's going now?" This must be done in substance, evolutionaryly, not revolutionaryly. I believe the new leader has this wisdom. But the guideline to reform the country never comes from the officials, but it has to come from this hall, from politicians. As far as the question of who loses his job is concerned, I have, in a sense, already answered that question. It has been made clear that everyone can continue in an institution. If someone still says that they do not want to do so, it is the subject of a particular case, and after all, the parties must explain to each other how the employment relationship is terminated, probably by redundancy. But people have been getting used to the idea of this addition for a long time, because the merger between the Environmental Board and the Inspectorate has been talked about for about ten years and today we have reached second reading with the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U26	Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U27	Thank you. For the second time, we are asking about the conflict of interest between the controller and the regulator when they are in one house, one organisation. However, the answers tend to be that already. That's a very bad answer. In the example of the Ministry of Finance, I would have been able to confirm that there are no such cases, no such doubts, on the contrary, and it works and there is supervision. But it looks like it's getting out of hand here. I think that's actually the way it has been. Have you discussed in more detail what would happen if this inspection turned into a police unit? What would change, and why would that be a bad idea?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U28	Thank you. This issue was under discussion in the Commission. Indeed, there was also the issue that maybe there is more common ground between the inspection and the police. When we are talking about a specific rule of law and a provision, it is a unit that must be punished, and here it is in the course of the penal logic procedure, which, in terms of supervision, is similar to the logic of police work. Examples were also provided in the context of hunting arrangements. When a joint hunt is organised, there is always a possibility to come and, by law, the right to check the permit is allowed. Its existence cannot actually be controlled by the inspection staff alone, but by a police officer. The question arose as to whether it could in any way be combined in the context of databases and given these powers to the inspection, so that police resources should not always be involved. Once again, we did not find a definitive answer to this question, because obviously the Commission had not come to resolve this issue in this way either. But the dominant in this context, why the profession and the inspection together, remained that the competence is similar. As a country, we are moving towards basically being a bottleneck, not always a punisher. The way to guide society through the solution is much better than to do it through punishment. This is the choice place.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U29	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U30	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I also asked the same question at first reading that placing permits and supervision under one roof really requires very precise regulation, very clear understandings, but it cuts off the possibility of different opinions, as well as the possibility of dialogue, which is very necessary on many environmental issues. But did the Commission, when discussing this issue, also meet stakeholders? We all get a lot of letters right now saying it's a very bad bill. Has the Commission heard the interest groups? I'm not talking about meeting with the Ministry.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U31	Thank you. We have discussed this in the Commission at least three times. The first time was right at the beginning of the session when representatives of the Ministry came with the Minister to present the plans that were planned. We just got a report, and we heard it. On other occasions, we've already dealt with processing. I must say that there were no amendments between the two readings. I understand that, as a result, the Chairman of the Committee on the Environment has also not been able to invite anyone to the table, because who will be invited then. The letter from NGO to Estonian Forest Aid was received on 17 December and no additional involvement has taken place in this respect.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U32	Aivar Sõerd.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U33	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! There have certainly been examples of this in practice that the institution is at the same time overseeing and controlling, but firewalls have been set up. I have now realised that this is not meant to be, but is only about faith, the sectoral leaders believe that there is no conflict of interest between regulators and controllers, and the Ministry believes that there is no conflict of interest. But what has been done specifically? Are there any organizational and information technology firewalls planned at all, or will everyone remain at that level of religion, all of whom believe that there is no problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U34	Thank you. No, I think our country is evolving. He's already developed to the point where there's a mark left in the registers, who's been there and what they've been watching. We know that the drafting of acts is in exactly the same place; it is not impersonal. It all works. You see, I was talking about this religious issue because I am not the head of this institution and I am not the chancellor. It is very difficult for me to comment on all the details of the inspection or on the proceedings of the Environmental Board. I do not have the capacity to do this because it was not dealt with in such detail in the Commission. But there are actually a lot of gray areas. I have been a rural governor (there are no more rural governments). I know that in the same way we worked on planning, the other way around on planning supervision. We were involved in the organisation of public transport and in the supervision of public transport. These grey shades are always in society and everywhere. If we say that we are giving more strength to local governments instead of rural governments, then we know that local government councils generally have local government leaders who, with one hand, participate in allocating money from the municipal budget and, with the other hand, participate in spending the common budget. I wouldn't see society as claustrophobic that there are only boxes in which life takes place. Life is still wider. Of course, supervision must be dealt with; it is entirely natural. One country cannot do otherwise. It has to be dealt with every day because there are abuses, but certainly, if there is already a presumption that we cannot cope with these abuses, then there is probably no way to move forward in life. These things go hand in hand and each system must actually create a new system inside itself.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U35	Please, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U36	Thank you. Good waitress! In one of your answers, you said that the country cannot and must not be run in such a way that we think today and we will do it tomorrow. However, with the same change before us, even the head of the institution has already been selected in competition, which is because the legislator has not even yet decided whether this change will be implemented at all. So, unfortunately, there's a decent taste of haste at this point. You also said that this addition has been discussed for ten years. Indeed, it is, it has been said, but it has not been done, because it has not been considered correct or reasonable that the change will result in an essentially independent, stand-alone reviewer disappearing. Evil acts against the environment are so serious that the controller must in any case exist and must be a strong, independent and separate entity. While such major and fundamental changes are being proposed, as a rule, very thorough analyses are being carried out and analysts are being asked to help from outside. What analyses have led to this decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U37	Thank you. As I said, one of the references for such a change has been the National Audit Office. This issue has certainly been analysed over the course of this decade. You said that this amendment has not been accepted, but it has always been based on an analysis of this decision. I do not know what the analyses were ten or five years ago; in any case, today it has been achieved that it is said that this decision is sensible and not seen as a problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U38	Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U39	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! In general, such mergers are steps in the right direction, but I must admit, however, that there has not been a convincing explanation for the combination of these two functions. Yes, if that is the position of the National Audit Office, it is very pleasant, but at the same time I would still ask the question whether you have also communicated with the office of Chancellor of Justice. They have a pretty strong expertise, I think, on this issue. Normally, all such matters concerning the unification of state institutions also go through the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. In this case, it is only dealt with by the Committee on the Environment. Have you asked the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for an opinion? It still seems to me that the explanations are not convincing enough right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U40	Thank you. First of all, about the Chancellor of Justice. The Chancellor of Justice's opinion on this draft has not been asked to my knowledge, but I believe that the Chancellor of Justice has been sitting at the table in the Cabinet once the Government has dealt with it. I suppose the Chancellor of Justice would have had the opportunity to react. That was point 1. Point 2 is that we all remember very well when the Chancellor of Justice has said several times from this same chair that discretion should be more used in Estonia. I remember that on a number of occasions the Chancellor of Justice has also given concrete examples in the Committee on the Environment that writing down a rule is not a good solution, it must be left room for the official to consider either between the various parties or between the directions. I think that the combination of the Environmental Board and the Environmental Inspectorate is also a very right step to present the opportunity of discretion. For once again: we cannot regulate everything in advance; this is what life has shown. The changes are taking place so quickly and in this Parliament too, we often deal with managing change because society is changing. We cannot sit in the corner and say that we are not doing this, because at one point we would be in a crisis like this. People need to be able to communicate more, they need to be able to pool competences, because they need wisdom to make decisions. There was a question about the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. As far as I am aware, this draft has not been in the proceedings of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U41	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U42	Good manager! Good waitress! There is currently an over-the-counter assembly of the two institutions. By the way, at the time when they were separated, the reason was that it was not possible for one to give permission and the other to control because it creates a difficult situation. But right now, they're being put together over their heads, and they're being put in charge of a person who doesn't know the field at all. My question is who is really going to direct this whole process.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U43	Thank you. I did not understand the question that if a person who does not feel in the field is being put in charge, who will then lead the process. The leaders should be led, and Parliament should be among the leaders. That is why we are discussing this in this Chamber today.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U44	Helmut Hallemaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U45	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! I also asked in almost the same context last time, but now I am extending this issue. I have my own experience in this field, I have been both a substantive employee of the Deputy Head of the Nature Conservation Government and Chief Ecologist, as well as an inspector in one person. Surely this work has its charms and pains. But here's what I'm gonna ask you. After all, we are going back to the beginning of Estonia's independence when these offices were together, even though there were more agencies then. Have there been any consideration over this period of time, which were the advantages and disadvantages of this system? The second is that, unfortunately, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has not been involved in any other merger, the Consumer Protection Board, the Technical Surveillance Authority and everyone else. But I'm gonna ask you this, too. We are talking in the context of state reform that policy-making should bring agencies and foundations back to ministries. In that case, was the question on the table, was this possibility seen here, and was this problem even seen?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U46	Thank you. That is not the way this issue was addressed in the Commission, so it is also difficult for me to say something here. These pros and cons are from this corner and that corner. Again, I can't just say on the basis of a specific case, on the basis of this bill, that I only see these pros and cons and analyses here. After all, we all have the same analysis in our heads. As MEPs in this Chamber and in the committees, we can, after all, write and paint a picture of different situations. I have to say, the pros tend to be more than minuses in the right hemisphere.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U47	George Adams.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U48	Mr. Waitress! I saw that the Ministry of Economic Affairs has seven different departments, which have inspections to one degree or another, the Ministry of Social Affairs has two of them, Eesti Pank has one. If the main feature of an inspection is, for example, that its main task is to check compliance with certain technical requirements in its own field, then perhaps in the Ministry of the Environment, this inspection has been misplaced? I remember that radiation problems were important in their time, after the Soviet army left. The use of various chemical substances in nature is certainly important. What else is there in the field of the Ministry of the Environment that would give out the scope of the inspection work?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U49	Oh, you ask so well that it is difficult for me to give a better answer than your question. But we certainly remember such a story years ago when innovation was introduced when measuring mesh size. Do you remember that? The Omega apparatus had to start measuring the mesh size. It was agreed with the European Union that this should be done. Well, that's when the trail started. Inspectors said it was difficult to measure because the boat was fluctuating. Then it turned out that the fishermen were very upset because when measuring with the Omega, all the eyes seemed smaller than when measuring with the wedge. A discussion arose as to whether or not this wedge should be set in the mesh or pressed to what it means. Then we came to the point that the traps had to be picked off because they did not seem to meet the requirements, even though the fishermen said that they had obtained them with European Union subsidies and that the size of the eyes had been prescribed, and that they themselves had not knit them together, did they not? If the mesh size does not correspond to what is required by law or regulation, the question may arise as to whether fishermen will have to repay the aid. After all, we have reached the point that you can measure a tamil at all, not a capron, but our passive traps are generally all made of kapron, not a tamil. Now, in principle, we have come to the point that this stage has been experienced together. Everything has been disturbed, politicians have intervened, the Ministry, the Office and the Inspectorate have solved the problem. Now we've come to the fact that I don't think Omega can measure this capron well, because the tamil just stretches on a whole different physical basis than kapron. Look, that's what life is like. So how do you put it exactly in the context of regulations, supervision and law? The last time the islanders came here, they said there was trouble with the traps again, they had to pick everything up because there was some kind of interlock built there. This has been the case historically all along, right, but the regulation does not see it coming. I just want to say with this story that we in this Parliament should probably trust ourselves more when we see that things can be resolved in cooperation. The second option is to punish and say no, the violation has been committed, we will punish and then change. I see that if there is such a grey area and, in principle, could be punished, but historically this has been the case, or there has been some change in the transposition of the directive, then we must try to find a common section and not go to punish at any time. However, this joint section cannot be found if the inspection belongs to the police and the Environmental Board is separate. I'm saying it's very complicated.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U50	Mati Raidma.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U51	Thank you very much. I will return to the issues of evolution and revolution that sounded in the previous response. I will look at the draft and see that all this will happen on 1 February 2019. Essentially, from now on, if we decide whether or not to put them together, it will be about a month. It is extremely difficult to regard it as evolution when it comes to preparing and carrying out the process now. If this has been prepared for a long time, then I have another question: did the executive only now discover that the Riigikogu must also say its word, perhaps ignoring us? I also come back to the first question: what about people, about a month?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U52	Thank you. It has proved very appropriate that the executive should think more about the legislative power and probably think more often, not only when they need it. But once again, we have a chance to establish ourselves here. It is generally quite common; it is certainly not the first or last time. I guess it starts with whether and what we're going to do and how we're going to behave during the trial. When it comes to those people who have done their work with dedication, again in the same way in the belief that they are doing the right thing, but at one point it is said that now it has to be done in a new way and in a new organization, I understand that all of them have been dealt with, they have been kept informed that such changes are coming. Internal changes and negotiations with the Heads of Department have been carried out. I think we all know the name of the new leader today because it's been through the press release. Again, which one was before, egg or chicken? I owe you an answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U53	Ants Laaneots.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U54	Thank you. I share my fellow Members' doubts. The whole peasant's mind says that the combination of two opposite tasks creates a situation where, figuratively speaking, one party gives environmental promises and orders, while the other half, or the Environmental Inspectorate working under the same management, should supervise its own authority, say so, or the first half of it, and limit the decisions it issues that harm the environment. How is this even possible within a single institution? Doesn't it seem to you that the Environmental Inspectorate is being completely wiped out?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U55	Thank you. I certainly do not agree with the way the Environmental Inspectorate would be set to zero. The Environmental Inspectorate also has a very important role to play as an input provider to the Environmental Board. That is why I think that if these people sit in one house from month to month, in fact in one system, the result of the work will eventually be better for members of society, and I hope it will also be better for the environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U56	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U57	Good manager! Good waitress! As a nature man, I have many good friends and colleagues at the Environmental Board and the Environmental Inspectorate. I also talked to several of them in the last half hour. They say a bullet to the head, it's a head-to-head rush. I asked him if they'd put in charge of someone who doesn't know the field. My friends in the same system say they have a tendency that the heads of department don't need to know their own business. You said Parliament was in charge. Do you think it's okay if even the head of department of the institution doesn't need to know their business, all you have to do is know the bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U58	Thank you, good Ernits! We have decided in principle in this Chamber that people will receive higher positions in the country through a nominating committee or a selection committee where these people will be looked at, discussed with them, a competition will be held and then a candidate will be submitted to the Minister for approval. That's how it's been. I have no right to question the competence of the winner of the competition, I have no right to do so. I can read his resume, and maybe I can point out that he is not exactly an environmental expert, but I do not know who was chosen, and I do not have the right to criticise here. I've also been in contact with the people of the Environmental Inspectorate and the Environmental Board. The people of the agency from the Pärnumaa region visited me here recently, and a number of topics were on the table. But I have to say, because of this subject, no one hurt the heart, no one said that listen, what you're planning here is one big madness. That wasn't the message. Maybe I was the wrong target group. But I thought it was right to say no.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U59	George Adams.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U60	Mr. Waitress! I'm sorry if I didn't know how to put the last question well. Your answer was good in this sense that this issue of the relationship between the European Union and the meshes, or whether or not it exists at all, is certainly not the subject of any classic inspection. However, I imagine that the main topics of inspections are those which are not, say, institutional, but concern the entire population, such as air cleanliness, radiation risk, as well as chemical poisons in our area, etc. Inspections shall normally be those parts of the body which can make their own decisions which cannot be changed by the Director-General of the Office or by the Minister as they do not have the relevant technical competence. So that's my question, where is this coming from?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U61	Thank you. I imagine that the role of inspection will not change. After all, the role of the inspection is very precisely defined in the legislation, what it has to deal with. If you ask him if he gets more resources and if it gets any better, if the inspection can do its job better, then I say and I have been told by the people of both the inspection and the agency that things will get better if the parties can resolve the issues on a regular basis in the course of their work. It seems to me, based on this claim, that it has not been well enough covered, that there have sometimes been a glass ceiling or wall or floor, however. Whether this is because there are two organisations, two different ways of thinking and understanding, or if there is something else, I really have not seen this in-depth analysis. But it's probably true that if two organizations have evolved for a long time, they've shaped themselves and their own logic. It's a world of its own.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U62	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U63	Thank you, Mr President. Very honorable waitress! Did these discussions not mention the possibility that, as far as the supervision of certain ministries is concerned, perhaps in this context, the Ministry of Rural Affairs and the Ministry of the Environment, for example, could their so-called monitoring organisations or institutions be combined? Much has also been said about the fact that in certain procedural processes the inspectors' hands are short, but if they were part of the Police and Border Guard Board, for example, they would be able to work much more effectively to ensure both competition and see if people may not be very law-abiding. Wasn't that a debate? The dream of the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Rural Affairs being one, not much to talk about at the political level, I don't think it's ready.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U64	Thank you. No, this was not the case in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U65	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U66	Thank you, President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, As we know, there are different levels of pay in the inspection and the agency, which are quite different. In addition, there are all kinds of motivational packages in the inspection, etc. You mentioned earlier that there would be no extra costs in this whole accession process. So let me get this straight: since there will be one institution in the future and there must be the same level of pay, then the people who worked in the inspection will be reduced in the future, and those who are now in office will rise and some average will be created? Is it quite right that some people simply lose their pay?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U67	Thank you. Putting together the two institutions will certainly be emotional, of which we have no doubt, on one side in a positive, on the other side in a negative direction. It's kind of confusing, too, but that's what leaders are for, to restore order and agree on the principles of how to proceed. As far as pay is concerned, the salary is that convergence is already taking place. I hope that salary will be more and more adequate in the Estonian country, not post-employment. I guess this is a new driver's chance.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U68	Peep Understood.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U69	Thank you. Good waitress! When the minister was on this board and was asked about economic results, about efficiency, about what would change after the merger, he didn't know much about it. He pointed out, figuratively speaking, that if two men were driving two cars before, now two men would be driving one car. That was his repeated expression here. Has the Commission been discussing whether and how much, in addition to the expected synergistic effect, there is economic logic in this connection? However, one of the objectives of the state reform is that the role of the public sector in society should not grow, but rather be reduced and the sector effective.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U70	Thank you. I guess this bill carries this logic so that the number of state-paid workers doesn't increase as a yeast. After all, we all understand Estonian labour logic, economic logic. Let's see the bill. In order to ensure stability at all, and not growth in red tape, it is the custom to always grow , these are the changes that are needed. I think that a specific draft does not provide an opportunity to achieve directly insane efficiency in financial terms, so we save money and we can use it somewhere else. The results of the administrative reform are already visible today; in fact, more can be done for society for the same money. I hope that the same dimension arises here, that more can be done for the same money, plus the bonus should be that the number of officials does not increase, but rather that we can keep it stable.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U71	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much for your answers.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U72	I will open negotiations on the draft provisions. As this is a second reading, everyone has a level playing field. Please, Peter Ernits!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U73	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I've already talked about this bill here, but I'm going to talk about some of the most important things. In fact, we are playing democracy here, we are discussing and asking, the person from the Committee on the Environment responds, but everything has already been decided. The coalition has already decided to press the green button. So, in the end, we're playing democracy here. A good colleague, Andres Metsoja, told me that we run the game. Remember how much we've done here. And these laws, often also the law of delinquency, will be enforced by the authorities. Andres Metsoja told me that we are in charge and the new Director General of the Environment Board has been elected by the High National Commission. Yeah, that's right, but I asked if it was okay if the department heads didn't have to know their business. In the last half hour, I spoke to two old friends and colleagues who are currently in office. They said it was a frightening practice that the heads of the department didn't need to know their business either. Is that normal, colleagues? We adopt laws, I repeat again, which may not be in the best position to say, they are a failure, and the administration must implement them, even the heads of department and the head of the institution may not know the area. Well, actually, it's all been over the top right now, so let's just remember. The competition for the position of Director General of the Environmental Board was announced, but not for the position of Director General of the Environmental Inspectorate. It was already known that we were going to adopt this law anyway. The coalition had already decided in favour of these green buttons, and those voices are there. I come back to the fact that we are playing democracy here, friends. It's actually very serious. That right now we're talking about the Environmental Board... In fact, the process is right, the number of agencies must be reduced, the direction is right. But the way it's done right now, over the top, and so let's see what comes up... And the waterfall will be driven by a person who doesn't even know what comes out of that hose. But that's all I'm saying. So good luck!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U74	Jürgen Ligi, is... To the speaker's desk, please. Both are a good idea, but there's more time. [[Jürgen Ligi is talking about the hall.]] Well, it's synchronised.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U75	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We have been debating this issue in this Chamber, but also in the Group. It doesn't feel like it's a good plan, it's not now, even though it's not new. There's a lot of trouble here. First of all, the Environmental Board and the Environmental Inspectorate are, however, the regulator and controller. If they were under one roof, we would have assumed that the Minister, or at least the Commission, would prove very well that there are security measures, that the wall is in between and that there is no conflict of interest. But we'd rather have confirmation that this is already the case, that everyone knows everyone, that everything is under the same roof, and that's normal. This was the response of the Minister last time and, in fact, this was the response of the Commission's representative today. I guess that's what this debate in the Commission has been about. A navid story, actually. However, we need to get a better picture of how to avoid conflicts of interest. Although reducing the number of institutions is a good plan, inspections are something inherently well independent, independent, and it is worth reflecting on and proving it for the sake of its preservation. Well, let's find out what the organizational thing was. There's no saving planned. It would have been proven that there would be savings, but there is no savings. It would have been said then that an analysis has been carried out and it has become clear that the money will remain the same, but that supervision will not really be improved. We also discussed in the group that maybe this inspection should be brought under the roof of the police, because the action seems similar and both are in uniform. I don't know exactly, it hasn't been in this situation itself, but it seems that using force is sometimes a problem for the inspection, the strength and the authority is not enough to control, for example, the kidnappers. But it didn't seem like much of an answer. One answer was that it must be an environmental specialist. Yes, we agree, but why not develop this competence in the police? In this sense, we could discuss the matter further, even if it was because we read that the head of this office is not an environmental specialist, he is an asset specialist from another ministry. Was he from the Home Office? Perhaps, then, it is the case that environmental preparation is not the basic thing that must be there, and perhaps, however, this inspection needs to be treated a little more as an authority of power and to think about it further. We certainly do not essentially fight against the idea of reducing the number of institutions, but we would really like to think about it further. The debate in the political group has got quite heated and we have not been able to shape a common position. Today's debate did not really make things better, as apparently the Committee on the Environment has not discussed all things very well. On behalf of our group, I propose that we stop reading now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U76	I'd like to wait for a written proposal. Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U77	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! Having listened to this discussion here at second reading, the Free Party Group basically joins this initiative so that we can interrupt the second reading. The previous speaker did not point to another fact. This is that the government is planning to push through our last working day before Christmas, i.e. Thursday. Indeed, once the substantive decisions have already been taken, the 'new leader' has been appointed, it is fair to say what we are discussing here or why we are members of the Riigikogu at all. It makes perfect sense that these things will be discussed first, that the whole questionnaire relating to different functions will be considered, and that the answers will not remain at this level, as the rapporteur in the Committee on the Environment said, but the authorities themselves and their leaders will not see the problem and he will trust these people. This draft, in its form, seems to be in every way too much of a rush sign to put an end to its proceedings during this year. In our view, it is perfectly acceptable that we interrupt reading and also ask the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and perhaps from here and there, for more constitutional advice. If it turns out these risks are grounded, we're going to take it easy on this thing, but right now there's a temple of haste. The Free Party Group supports the suspension of second reading of the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U78	There are no more requests to speak, I will close the negotiations. One amendment to the draft has been tabled, presented by the Committee on the Environment, and the decision of the commission is to take full account of it. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 710. The Reform Party Group proposes to suspend the second reading of draft 710 and a similar hint was made by a representative of the Free Party Group. We will put to the vote the second reading of the draft proposal by the Reform Party Group. Honourable Riigikogu, please pay attention! I shall put to the vote the second reading of draft proposal 710 from the Reform Party Group to be suspended. Please take a stand and vote! The proposal was voted in favour by 30 delegates, 38 against, with no abstentions. The proposal by the Reform Party Group to interrupt the second reading of the draft was not supported. Therefore, the proposal of the lead committee to conclude the second reading of the draft is in force. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U79	Second reading of the draft law amending the Police and Border Guard Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws 673. I'd like a chair from Vilja Toomas, member of the Legal Affairs Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U80	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, The Government of the Republic initiated a draft law amending the Police and Border Guard Act and related amendments to other laws on 22 August 2018. The bill became number 673. A small reminder that this draft concerns the collection and processing of PNR data for air passengers and is in line with the European Union Directive. The draft passed the first reading in the large Chamber on 26 September and the deadline for submitting amendments was set at 11 October 2018. No amendments were tabled by the members of the Riigikogu at that time, but the Committee on Legal Affairs made two amendments, and at the meeting of the committee on 11 December we discussed them when we prepared the draft for a second reading in the large Chamber. Now, very briefly, what these amendments contain. With the first amendment, we will increase the number of organisations and institutions that have to provide PNR data for air passengers. The second amendment is purely technical. Since this draft is linked to the Personal Data Protection Act, we are harmonising and aligning paragraphs and quotes. At the meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs on 11 December, the advisor drew the attention of the members of the committee to the fact that the Personal Data Protection Act is on the agenda of the Riigikogu's plenary session on 12 December and, since it is not known whether this draft will be adopted as a law, the Commission was able to decide only on the amendments at this committee meeting, but on the condition that the Commission would return to this issue at its meeting on 17 December. The committee also decided to ask the management board of the Riigikogu for permission that the second-reading materials will be submitted by the evening of 17 December, for which the Riigikogu Board also authorised us. A few decisions were also taken at this meeting of the Commission. It was decided to put this draft on the agenda for a second reading by 18 December and to propose that the second reading be terminated. These proposals were adopted by consensus. We returned to the bill at the meeting on 17 December. At this meeting, Linnar Liivamägi, adviser to the Commission, announced that the Personal Data Protection Act was indeed adopted at the meeting on 12 December, and that is why we were able to move forward with Bill No 673. I asked for clarification as to whether the law amending the Police and Border Guard Act and related amendments to other laws was related to the law implementing the Personal Data Protection Act, which was, as we know, withdrawn in this Chamber and brought back to the procedure. Linnar Liivamägi explained that Bill 673 constitutes one of the necessary packages of amendments to implement the Personal Data Protection Act and that the draft Act implementing the Personal Data Protection Act was rejected in the Riigikogu does not prevent this bill from moving forward. Therefore, the Commission decided to send the draft to third reading when the second reading is completed, by 16 January 2019 and on that day also to carry out the final vote on the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U81	Mr Põldaru will ask the rapporteur a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U82	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Good Commission waitress! Paragraph 252 (4) of the Law states that data obtained together with PNR data, other than those mentioned above in that Act, are deleted without delay. How can these additional data even arise if PNR data are only those contained in this long list? Where, then, can these data be generated that will be deleted without delay?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U83	Thank you for your question. I also said before that, in fact, the list that can transmit these data and PNR data is a little longer. Certain, let's say, air intermediaries, travel agents, tour operators may also have access to data that is not directly required under this directive and which is not included in this list either. That's the data you don't have to transmit for processing. If you ask what these data are, which must be deleted immediately, we can speculate here that they are some kind of data, I do not know where there is an indication of health or who is a vegetarian or Muslim and who is not eating pork on an airplane, for example, etc. These are data that are very personal, they are not in these lists and they do not really need to be known by others. So that's the data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U84	Thank you very much for the waitress. There are no more questions. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. Two amendments to the draft have been tabled, both tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the decision to take full account. The first amendment was proposed by the Committee on Legal Affairs, as well as the second amendment; the decision is to take full account. We have therefore examined the amendments to the draft. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 673. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U85	First reading of the Act amending the Courts Act and the Code of Criminal Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic. To present the speech chair, Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U86	Honorable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable representatives of the people! The idea of this draft law is clear and unambiguous: the draft law allows the judges to pay extra charges for on-call time. On-call time is the time when a judge is required to be available on public holidays and weekends for the performance of unforeseen or urgent duties provided for by law. The need for the courts to serve requires that there is an on-call judge in all courts in order to ensure the presence of a judge for urgent and urgent procedural measures at the outside of normal working hours. These measures include the granting of an authorisation for a search operation, the settlement of a request for a search, the resolution of an application for arrest, the application of an attachment in a misdemeanour procedure, the application of provisional legal protection in the case of a person's placement in a closed establishment, the application of provisional legal protection in the case of separation from the child's family, the settlement of an application for an examination of the possession and the settlement of an application for placing an illegally staying person in a detention centre. In itself, according to the draft idea, the extra charge for one hour of on-call time is 10% of the judge's hourly fee. The second amendment that this draft provides for is the amendment of the Law on the Courts, which allows the appointment of a judge to a person who has at least five years of experience in legal work after obtaining the qualifications laid down in the Law on the Courts. It is now written that a person must have worked in a position where a Master's degree in law is expected. The problem has arisen in the judge examination committee in order to establish compliance with the qualification requirement, because there are many people who have actually done a legally qualified job, but the work manual does not state that it is precisely the legal master's degree that is required to be employed in this place, but that it is for example 'university in law'. Even so, the examination committee assesses a person's skills, but in order for the qualifications to be appropriate, the courts have come up with such a proposal. All these proposals have been discussed and fully supported by judges in the Court Administration Advisory Board. This draft has, in fact, already passed through its saga in Parliament's proceedings. At the beginning of the draft, which was taken back by the Government last week or the week before, was also the removal of the Advocate General's salary from the judge's salary. For the judges, for the judges' representative bodies and also for the court administration council, it seemed unreasonable. The government considered and discussed this and gave up this initiative, and this proposal is not included in this draft either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U87	A round of questions will be opened by Küllik's Hatter. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U88	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! I'm asking about the budget side. I have seen that the law is intended to be enforced from 2020 and you have also put in an explanatory note that you are just beginning to apply for an additional amount of EUR 172000 from the 2020 RES. At the same time, I'll read it out here, expenses already in 2018. You can read here that they are EUR 150000. What happens in 2019 and what happens if this additional need is not met in the RES? Is this money coming from the Court's own budget now, or how has the current system been financed? What will ideally happen from 2020 and what will happen in 2019?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U89	No, in fact, this proposal is not ideal, but it is proposed that it will take place from 1 January 2020. The cost of 2018 is simply an example of what this additional cost would have been extrapolated to 2018 if it had been paid to the judges. Of course, there will be no cost in 2018, since there is no law. This will not be the case in 2019. There will be a cost in 2020. The agreement, which was also discussed in the government, is that these funds will be taken into account in the process of dealing with the country's budgetary strategy. The expenses to be paid to judges are, I think, calculated from the previous or previous year's, in fact, in the same way as pensions. In the case of pensions, the state also predicts a certain amount of money needed to pay pensions, but obviously all persons who have a subjective right under the law receive a pension. There are also social benefits. In fact, these judges' fees are also imputable; the Ministry of Finance allocates or plans them to the Ministry of Justice's budget. They're paid out by the courts.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U90	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U91	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Could you explain a bit of this picture of the differences in the burden on judges in different regions during the on-call time?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U92	Thank you. In fact, it is clear that there are more things in Harju County Court, I believe, also per capita, for a judge, because there are just a lot of people living in that area, and I also think that there are more criminal proceedings in Virumaa that a judge has to do. In the case of judges, it's not like there's a phone-judge on all weekends. It's a rotation of the judges. I'm sure that the separation of the child from the family is evenly distributed per capita across the country. I assume that the lion's share of them is once again the task of the Harju County Court. The previous Riigikogu made one significant change regarding the tasks arising from the Code of Criminal Procedure. In the past, the prosecutor gave permissions, and now this task was raised to a higher level so that fundamental rights could be guaranteed and the judge, as an independent supervisor, would assess it. As a result, these judges faced an additional burden. This has not been for a very long time, and in the last few years such a system has emerged.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U93	Raivo Põldaru.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U94	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! What was the point of paying off these hours on guard duty? I understand they didn't pay until now. Is there some kind of working time record, or what's the point?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U95	It's not like there's a secret that it was created for two reasons. One reason is that we have a situation where the prosecutors are paid an extra fee for the time they have been on duty. And if the neighbor can, it certainly raises a legitimate question. The judges came up with this question, it was discussed seriously in the circle of lawyers, with representatives of the judges, and it was found to be justified. Another reason, the so-called substantive reason, is undoubtedly that the burden has increased. It has grown because of the legislator's wise will that courts do more fast actions, and if they are expected to offend more people's fundamental rights, then it is necessary that judges have an additional judicial control function. The judges are an expensive labour force in this sense, isn't it? It is necessary to ensure their independence and competence, which is why there are costs.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U96	Hatter, the second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U97	Thank you, good vice chairman. I am reminded that a decision was indeed taken in the previous formation that judges, for example, should issue search warrants. This is one very clear feature for which this on-call time is needed. But I did not get a concrete answer, which will happen if the RES does not provide a positive response by 2020. However, how has the situation been resolved now, because the work is already under the current rules and tasks today?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U98	The answer is that the current situation operates under the current law and the judges do not receive this premium. There is no subjective right to payment of the premium, there is a closed list of the benefits that judges receive. Secondly, as I said, the cost of the remuneration of judges or the work of judges has been estimated, which means that if the legislator has determined one fee or additional cost for judges, the State must ensure this, and the estimated costs are paid according to the actual costs. Their estimated costs are in reality, as happens with the cost of work, that these incurred operations are now not unique for judges, which applies to all occupations in the country on a so-called 100% basis, i.e. as if all places had been completed. But the fact is, there's never 100% coverage, there's always someone who's left work or is just coming to work, there's some kind of kicks in there. While in the public sector these estimates are made on a full-time basis in different agencies, some of the so-called under-expenditure is always present. If the question is whether the legislator is going to adopt it, then no, there is no problem here, these costs are imputable and the state or government will certainly pay these fees.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U99	George Adams.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U100	Mr. Minister! I guess it was decided once that a judge would give permission for surveillance if my memory wasn't fooled. What's the status now? Is it a special judge, or are they going to rotate? What does this amendment of the law bring about or bring about nothing in this area?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U101	No, it does not bring about any substantive changes. In fact, at present, this watch arrangement is structured in such a way as to either work on the basis of on-call time or work on the basis of a work-sharing plan, which means that there is a narrower number of judges who carry out these tasks. No changes of substance are planned here.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U102	George Adams, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U103	I'm sorry, I wasn't in the hall in the meantime, so maybe you already talked about it. I understand that one of the processes for preparing this draft was a major vote in the judiciary, where you had given two options to choose. The second option was that a certain number of judges would be created, i.e. four per replacement judge. I suppose these replacement judges' seats are still necessary. Or are you saying they're not necessary? So when will the next Justice Ministers reach the establishment of these replacement judges?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U104	Thank you. Yes, it is true that during the saga of this bill there was a situation in which the working group, when discussing the organisation of judicial work, came to the conclusion at the beginning of the year that it would be reasonable to create an invitation for a replacement judge in Estonia. It'd be a little like an officer's invitation, actually they'd have a bigger reward. This system would have been such that, at the decision of the President of the Court or the coordination of the Court's Board of Appeal, they could have been moved from one region to another in order to harmonise the burden. At the moment, the situation is that when a judge is appointed, he is not simply appointed a judge, he is appointed to a specific court area. The so-called indeterminate right that you must go somewhere else in the interests of the service, to another city or country, would be compensated by a higher rate of remuneration. The second idea was to pay extra fees. In the summer we were negotiating with the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry of Finance considered that the creation of new jobs might not be in line with the general interest of the State. This was their criticism of one idea and the second argument was that the premium is problematic. But we stayed with the Vice-Judges and this bill was filed. The Courts Chamber of Appeal gathered, the judges discussed it in terms of their financial cost, these two proposals were more or less in the same order of magnitude and found that if there were two things they would want both, but if only one was possible because of the potential financial cost, they would prefer the premium rather than the substitute judges. But the draft had already been submitted to Parliament's procedure, and we discussed it in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs found that it was not nice to change the matter as it progressed, that the whole content would change, and then the government withdrew this draft and re-submitted it in order to cooperate with the court administration council and the judiciary. Am I planning on bringing this matter to the Vice-Judges? No, I have no intention of that. Can it come up in the future? This can never be ruled out, the text has been written, but it is not planned in the near future.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U105	There are no further questions for the Minister. Thanks for the answers. The presentation of the commission is made by Marko Pomerants, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U106	Good afternoon, Mr President-in-Office and ladies and gentlemen. Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu spoke about the nature and content of this draft and, in the same way, about the development of a previous draft, draft 713. Since we had already discussed draft 713 in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we did not invite the Minister for Justice to come back at all for 776 at all, but we agreed with the representative of the government that the substance of the matter had been discussed and that the government would present a new draft correctly. As we understand it, this has happened. The procedural decisions of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs are as follows: to put this draft on the plenary agenda by 18 December here we are, it is proposed to propose that the first reading of the draft be stopped, and that we have a consensus on it, and to propose that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 10 working days, i.e. 7 January already in the new year at 5 p.m., there was a consensus and there was a consensus on the rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U107	Thank you very much. There are no questions for the rapporteur. I will open the political group negotiations for discussion of the general principles of the draft law. There's no call. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 776. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments to the draft by 7 January at 5 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U108	First reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Rules of Procedure and the Legal Procedure of the Riigikogu initiated by the Constitutional Committee 762. The presentation will be made by Marko Pomerants, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U109	Hello again, people, all with the same titles! The draft 762 is before you and it concerns the amendment of the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act. This is a process that has been going on for a very long time during the composition of this Riigikogu. We know that several attempts have also been made here by the President of the Riigikogu, Eiki Nestor, and efforts have been made to find consensus between the political groups represented in the Riigikogu. The truth is that the more political groups there are, the more disagreements or visions about how one or the other piece of work could be regulated in our daily lives. But the part that is now before you is one that has been approved by all the political groups. Therefore, in the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, it would still be reasonable to go through these few changes, and we would still be able to turn them into a law within this membership. I think there is certainly at least one other amendment that is not here at the moment, but which could ultimately be part of this draft. This concerns this famous presence check before there is a vote on a draft which requires 51 votes. These two things have no connection, no presence control and no final vote. However, this bill does not contain this proposal at the moment. In a very brief way, the first part of the bill speaks of maneuvers, an apology, is not the legal term used in this bill, which takes place between special committees, committees of inquiry and committees of concern when political groups change their membership. As we know, this is a process right now, how do I say it? just pointlessly bureaucratic, which means that the draft amendment decision will be prepared, the large hall will vote on it, and every time such a change is on the agenda again, it is also about why we are dealing with it. This bill allows us to overcome this situation. Perhaps one of the most important substantive changes concerns the modification of our weekly routine. We're talking about Monday. I am very much simplifying the work of a member of the Riigikogu in a large hall, but as we know, it is limited on Monday (in the case of less examples) to the fact that we are involved in the verification of our presence and also in the confirmation of the weekly agenda, and if there are enquiries and there is interest in them, then we will also be there, and, of course, there is a free microphone, which, I understand, some of our colleagues have used from time to time. But according to this bill, it would be possible to discuss drafts on Monday. Working time would be regulated in time, the session would start at 15:00 and end at 24:00 or around midnight. Of course, if the agenda is exhausted sooner, it will end earlier. So the session will begin with the adoption of the agenda and, in the meantime, when there is a need, there will be a debate on the drafts and then there will be a free microphone until the call requests are exhausted or there will be a midnight call. The exclusion of drafts from the agenda has also been specified. The classic question concerning the deadline for tabling amendments is that, by the clock, we do not have officials working here, but in fact, officials also have working hours that end at 17. Therefore, it is appropriate that the amendments be tabled by 5 p.m. instead of 6 p.m., as is the case in the current Rules of Procedure. I think that we have so much capacity that everyone who wants to propose amendments can do this by 5:00, because under normal circumstances, ten working days will be given for this and the holidays will remain in the meantime, so that the slower ones can get ready. There is another amendment, it concerns the debate on the publication of censure. This is point 19: 'The debate on the publication of confidence shall begin with a statement by the originator or representative of the originator, the duration of which shall not exceed 20 minutes and which shall justify the submission of a mistrust. Following this, the member of the government against whom the publication of censure was initiated has spoken, the duration of which may not exceed 20 minutes. A member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to a member of the government. ' This isn't what I'm gonna say, is it? It should be an exceptional situation that leads to a vote of no confidence in one member of the government, and therefore this procedure should also be able to be explained by both parties. We have talked about the fact that there are too few debates in the Riigikogu, maybe there are almost no debates, just everyone talking about it. This would also be one of the additional ways in which the parties could better justify and demonstrate their views. That is, in short, the content of the draft. As regards the deadline for submitting amendments, when we mentioned in the previous draft law on courts that this deadline is 7 January 2019, i.e. the usual ten working days, in this case we specifically propose a more distant deadline for proposing amendments, and that is 15 January at 17:00. The reason why we are doing this is very prosaic and simple: if the Riigikogu meets for its last five working weeks, even on that 14th day, the political groups would be able to discuss whether there are any suggestions on what could be changed in the Rules of Procedure. My appeal is sincere that you also make these amendments within the deadline. Perhaps we will find more common ground and make these changes within its membership. So the deadline for submitting amendments is 15 January at 5 p.m. And, of course, the Commission's proposal to close the first reading is to conclude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U110	Thank you, Mr Pomerants, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. You have questions too. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U111	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good Marko Pomerance! I'm going to compare the bill with the draft that had a lot more issues. My first question concerns what were the reasons or arguments that no consensus could be reached in the committee on the appointment of a time limit for Wednesday's working day and what happened to the possibility of establishing an emergency situation and its processing at the level of the Riigikogu. These should, in the preliminary assessment, be topics that are not so sensitive.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U112	Let's start from the beginning. As I said, we were based on those points where all the political groups had reached a consensus. There was no consensus that the night hearing would be cancelled. I can't remember if the Reform Party Group was against. Could've been. We simply did not put this amendment here at the moment. If it comes back on the table, we can discuss it again. My personal view is that it makes sense. With regard to all this so-called emergency regulation, we found that we might not have to deal with this procedure now in the remaining time. Certainly, when the new formation comes together, it can be dealt with comprehensively.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U113	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U114	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! This method of searching for a joint section may not be wrong, but what I am very aware of is what is not in this bill. In my opinion, the biggest problem is that the members of the Riigikogu are not equal in this Chamber. I am thinking, in particular, of non-attached members who are being raised as chess pieces from one committee to another, nor are they entitled to speak at first and third reading and to form new political groups when, for example, a larger group leaves a rather large group, and to receive services from the Chancellery of the Riigikogu on an equal basis with others. In my opinion, this is the most screaming problem of our Rules of Procedure, that members of the Riigikogu are not guaranteed equal opportunities. Why isn't this reflected in this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U115	Thanks! This is, how to say, an ideological question. In the form that you, a good colleague, raised this issue, amendments were made in the original phases, perhaps I am doing too much by the Free Party Group alone. It is true that the others did not have these proposals. If we look at the current domestic and working procedures, we can see that it is based on the knowledge that the Riigikogu elections are first, that political groups are formed and that the work in the Riigikogu is first and foremost centred on political groups. Maneuvers and leaving the group should be an extraordinary thing, not an ordinary one. So this is such an ideological argument. At the moment, the five political parties that are here have followed this logic, and one party from this logic, that, regardless of whether they are members of a political group or members of a political group, the conditions should be equal. That is why there is no change here.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U116	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U117	Good manager! Good waitress! It is in itself the right direction, but these changes are a little too little. But my question is about what happened to Tiina Kangro recently. The field's major specialist was rejected, although Monika is also a specialist, and there could be two of these specialists on the committee. Right now, the coalition does as it pleases. The same thing happened to me a little earlier. I wanted to go to the Environment Commission, but Eiki Nestor sent me a letter saying that Urve Palo was already in the way, and I didn't start writing kapos. Shouldn't it be regulated somehow? If there are people who are experts, now they are both Monika and Tiina, then they could still be on this committee, not that we are pushing one, and especially whoever does not belong to the coalition, somewhere else.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U118	Thanks! I daresay I have not dealt with this particular case of Tiina in any way. I heard it existed this morning. But it doesn't change the nature of my answer. If you find that it is possible to change this part of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, which concerns the appointment of committees, in a fair way, please propose these amendments. This can be done both by the political group members and by all other members of the Riigikogu as well as by the political groups, as the Rules of Procedure allow us today. Then we can discuss it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U119	Tiina Kangro, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U120	Thank you. I have a question that amendments must be tabled by 5 p.m. Did you discuss the practical value of this change, that when the officials' day ends at 5 p.m., these things should also have been received by 5 p.m., even though the officials will not deal with them? Why am I asking that? I have noticed that life has changed, that people live on mobile phones, and that ambassadors work around the clock. Wouldn't it be better to push that deadline to 00.00 by the end of the day? In fact, the official comes to work in the morning and then deals with these things, he doesn't do it at 5:00 p.m. when his day is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U121	Thanks! It's not just an official. What do I think should be considered? There's got to be a line somewhere, isn't there? That's one. Under normal circumstances, there are ten working days for all amendments, which means practically 12 days. In my opinion, during this period, a member of the Riigikogu will be able to make his or her amendments. It is the same debate as has been the case over the sale of alcohol that the city man should be able to buy his own alcohol between 10 and 22. But look at equal treatment! My father-in-law in South Estonia has to make a decision in five minutes. 12 days is enough time to make it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U122	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U123	Thank you, good vice chairman. Mr. Chairman of the Commission! Could you be a little more specific? This paragraph 62 does not concern the time when the amendments are to be tabled, but the time when the materials must be made public for work in the Chamber. I think these are two different things.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U124	I'll see!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U125	But my substantive question, which I wanted to ask, is: how do you still intend to deal with the amendments that you will receive? The Free Party Group will certainly make the same amendments that have been tabled in 2016 and 2018, but at the same time we would also like to see a result. Will you continue on the principle of consensus, will you use a simple majority in the vote, or will you seek compromises? What is this form of work to make this document and the draft more substantive?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U126	First of all, thank you for your attention. My bad! The point remains the same. Indeed, I improvised too much; § 62 concerns making documents available to members of the Riigikogu, which can be made available until 18:00. The reason for the amendment is still the same: the officials will be working until 5 p.m. and they will be the ones who will put these documents up to the EMS or wherever they want, right, and that is why it is justified there at 5 p.m. Okay, we've got it covered. As far as further methodology is concerned, all options are available in the toolbox. Let us still start with the broadest circle and then see if we have a consensus on some sort of coalition vote. I wouldn't put any restrictions on you right now, but I'd start with goodwill, where everyone is the same at the table.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U127	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U128	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! In answer to my first question, I understood that the treatment of the five political groups in the Riigikogu is not that all members of the Riigikogu are equal. That is why my deep theoretical question is: do the members of the Riigikogu have equal rights in the eyes of the Constitution or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U129	Our home and operating procedures are certainly constitutional, otherwise we would not be able to work on it. After all, this situation, a faction, is a kind of a member of the Riigikogu itself. That's right, that's right. But I think this is a constitutional situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U130	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U131	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! We have spent a good amount of time here on ambassadors who, of their own free will, have gone to sit by the window and have knowingly given up many rights or opportunities. But my question is about those ambassadors who belong to the group. There is quite a lot of information and knowledge to be found at second reading when all the ambassadors can come to the remote and publish some other vision, but at first and third reading it has been omitted. Is it possible, in any way, if amendments have already been voted at the end of the second reading, to take the time off and I know that the group can put it in place and count before the third reading?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U132	To have about the same situation as in the state budget procedure, so that further amendments can be made between second and third readings, like this?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U133	Yeah, when there's a healthy thought in the hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U134	Thanks! To this end, we have the opportunities that we have now created for ourselves that it will certainly be possible to interrupt the second reading of the draft if such a healthy idea arises before a possible second reading vote. This should be the place. The situation we had last week should be an exception. Again, as a rule, the period of processing of draft laws is so long that all thoughts, or most thoughts, at least those related to this draft, should reach the parties concerned. We think that the Fatherland is eternal, in fact the Riigikogu is also. If this draft fails, then the following ideas can be taken to the table with the next draft. I think that the classics of the Riigikogu are the Water Act, which has been dealt with no more than a hundred times. Certainly, home and operating procedures should not be analogous, principles should be in place, but from time to time it must be modernised.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U135	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U136	Thank you. Did the Committee on Constitutional Affairs set itself the objective of promoting parliamentary debate? On a specific point, I am surprised that nothing has been done here in Question Time. Pretty amazing format. As a minister in his day, he was happy to come here, it was an opportunity to show his knowledge and to describe his plans, I would have liked to have come here even more often and have more time. But as a questioner of the hall, it seems like a complete disaster, in a minute you have to raise the subject, describe it, and then ask. The answer can only be fooled for two minutes. If he doesn't want to answer, like the Prime Minister usually does, there'll be nothing there. Didn't you at all have a topic under discussion to extend the briefing a little bit and relax this time limit?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U137	Thanks! As far as the parliamentary debate is concerned, the ideas that this debate could be more substantive have been different. As far as the quality or nature of Question Time is concerned, it has not been attempted to amend it over time by means of the Rules of Procedure. The style example is that the Prime Minister is available every time. If we, good Jürgen, are talking about what is not home and working, there are indeed several possibilities. Option 1 is what they practice, that the ambassador asks what he wants, and the respondent answers what he wants. It's one of the internships, quite widespread. I dare call it the Savisaar principle, he started it in his day. People are still studying, aren't they? The second option that I describe in one of the great books 'My Ministries' is that you want to work with the ambassador in essence and turn to the ambassador. If he's sent you a question on Tuesday as "State Protection" or "State Leadership," you're asking him what you really want to know, good Jürgen. Then you'll explain your question, and I'm sure you'll get a dignified answer. If you can assume that you want to just widen out, then on the other hand, something like that will come up with something like that. But having talked to people, I know that the proposal, which maybe somewhere in your rooms, I mean the party of the Reform Party, is about that Question Time could be longer, Question Time could start earlier, for example from 12 o'clock to just talk rumors, people in the Riigikogu are talking about, and a little longer might be the time to ask and also the time to answer. I think it would be doable with goodwill, for the simple reason that we have no committee work on Wednesday morning. The political groups should then discipline themselves a little in order to organise their meetings differently. The other thing is that those who want to go asking can still walk, that's not what life gets behind. I think it would be doable. If such a proposal comes, we will see what kind of approval or consensus it will find. I, having been here for a while in the Riigikogu, think that our main problem is that we do not really have a debate. Everyone talks, whether substantive or empty, and the day is in the evening.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U138	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U139	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I take this opportunity to ask: were there any suggestions that, as a world-renowned cyber security leader, we could have a tiger jump in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U140	Thanks! There is no proposal that would have survived at this stage. There have been such minor proposals on the table, à la whether the delivery of the drafts should be physically or could be handed over without a call, etc. But nothing more capitulative than what we all understand has been to such an extent that he is in the bill. [[T. Kruusmäe's interjection from the hall.]] How? (In the hall of T. Kruusmäe: "What about beautiful pictures? ') Oh, it certainly doesn't have to be regulated by the house and the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U141	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U142	Thank you. It was so sweet that you called the Savisaar principle. I am one of the few who remember MEP Edgar Savisaar. There was no briefing at the time, but even when he asked about the bill, he could never fit in two minutes, he just didn't get to the question. But I was thinking about the briefing where the ambassador has to bring up the whole thing and describe it. There is no concrete draft, there is such a current debate. Do you agree that this time may be extended? The political groups will certainly manage. But could you make Question Time two hours for example and give twice as much time to ask and give twice as much time to answer? It would then be much more difficult to circumvent the subject and, at the same time, more precise to describe it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U143	Thanks! I am still thinking of the Savisaar principle, Savisaar as the answer minister for the economy, for example. Question Time was there, he was the answer, not the questioner. In your example, he was a questioner. Everything is in our own hands, including the quality of our work. I personally support this idea. The prerequisite for this is that we actually use time on both sides of quality, that one side does not just talk about how stupid the government is and how it does it all wrong, but instead tries to explain the problem nicely in essence, and the other side does not think how stupid the member of the Riigikogu is who is asking and is trying to answer the question. I guess that's the playground. But politicians talk for a long time. If you cannot say yes, I personally support this idea and try to find support for it. Let's see where we're going.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U144	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U145	Thank you, Mr President. This is a pretty exciting problem, and it's a year-long tail. I have a question: couldn't the principle you just mentioned be called Jürgen Ligi's principle? I've written about it in the paper once. You asked the minister a question then he was the Minister of Finance, and you answered: 'You also in the Chamber. Where do you count it? ' And there was no other meaningful answer. So this is a problem with long roots. Obviously, memory should really be sharpened here and something should be done to ensure that some men are not just very good former ministers.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U146	Thanks! Jürgen Ligi can still only be a copy of this role.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U147	Thank you, good waitress Marko Pomerants! No further questions for you. I will open negotiations with representatives of the political groups. On behalf of the Jürgen Ligi Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U148	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Since my name was ringing, I was tempted. We have really thought that Parliament could be a more debate place. At one time, very strict minute limits were set for questions and answers because there was a great deal of law to be passed, but time was wasted unbearably, the playground was too big for just a waste of time. It can now be felt that the culture of parliamentary debate has failed. As far as these written questions are concerned, the professor may have quite accurately referred to my previous reaction as a minister, but I can, with my hands on my heart, say that as a minister, I was always happy to come here. It was an opportunity to answer questions and to show knowledge, but at the same time there was a clear impression that one of the Members could not even get the questions asked in this format in a different way than when reading the written questions from the paper pages. It is not a debate when people read the text on paper. All Members should be able to communicate freely. The critical attitude towards ministers and the government is not a problem in itself, although here Marko seems to have said so. No, it's fine as long as it stays on the subject. But the trouble that should be mentioned, although it is not regulated by the Rules of Procedure, is the debate on the draft law. It's still a pretty catastrophic situation. Some political groups only come with written speeches in a situation where they should represent their group and should actually respond to sound claims, they should respond somehow. Is it a debate when you simply read the text and do not react to the situation? As ministers abroad, do they sit on the ministerial debate just like that behind their remote control, press the button, and then start talking on paper? It is, of course, difficult to regulate this issue, but we have an idea and we are going to propose it. This is that horizontal communication should also be created, for example, by asking the questioner. If something gets out of hand, or vice versa, something really interesting happens, then you can also start a discussion over the hall asking each other. I have realised that something like this already exists in the European Parliament. But it is clear that Estonia no longer needs so many very big laws, but it needs a better parliamentary debate culture. We don't have as much left as we used to have when there were a lot of people who spoke more conceptually. Well, at least history has settled that impression. Maybe the color of the grass looks too green in the background, but let's think about the future. Everyone should be able to argue and reason with each other, there is no need simply to read the text from paper and try to fit the question into a minute, if in fact the subject must be described in Question Time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U149	On behalf of George Adams Free Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U150	Mr President, I would like to ask for more time now.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U151	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U152	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! We are now in a situation that repeats as amen in church every four years. A few months before the end of the term of office of the Riigikogu, a package of amendments to the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act will be processed. In general, this package is designed so that the officials of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, serving the Riigikogu's management, put together all their proposals within three years, on which they think they would be needed for clarity and simplification of their work and the work of their superiors, and submit them to us, i.e. the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Perhaps a number of other proposals from the floor will be added to this, but perhaps there will be no addition, as has been the case here. Even before this draft was finalised, there was a long list of various things that most political groups did not support, including such a politically quite hot proposal, in order to complete the annual election of the Riigikogu's governing board, which is already going on for the third decade, and to do so either once during its membership or at least every two years. This is the situation, and it is likely to be repeated in four years' time. This thing started after the Riigikogu elections in 2003 were adopted in this very hall, the new Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu were then called the Rules of Procedure Act, which differed considerably from what was before that. So we can say that during the restored independence, we have basically had two different versions of the Rules of Procedure, which, of course, have had a series of sub-versions. Four years later, this happened in 2007. There were two laws in the Riigikogu: one was called the Rules of Procedure Act and the other was called the Rules of Procedure Act. I wasn't in the Riigikogu at the time, I don't know who the influence was, but for some reason, it was decided to merge the two laws into a single text. This was a fundamental change in a certain European legal tradition, if not a violation. Indeed, the need to distinguish between the texts of the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure has historically come from the fact that the Rules of Procedure have had internal rules or agreements which apply only to the internal organisation of the Riigikogu itself, and the Rules of Procedure have never had any meaning outside Parliament. On the contrary, there have been laws that also apply to every citizen in the country. So if we ever do the President's Rules of Procedure again, the way the President organises the work in his own office is a matter of his own office's Rules of Procedure, but how many weeks a citizen's statement or complaint must be answered is a public question and cannot be included in the Rules of Procedure. These things are all messed up in our law right now. I would like to draw attention, for example, to one such thing that we currently have the opportunity to appeal to the Supreme Court provided for in this United Act. This is absurd with rules of procedure, which would be perfectly normal with the Rules of Procedure. When everything is put together, it is very difficult to distinguish such things. If we look at the development of the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure within four years of this membership, it must be said that this development is practically close to zero. In the meantime, I had the hope that the President of the Riigikogu, Mr Nestor, and other members of the board, would launch a new process of drafting the Rules of Procedure. Unfortunately, this did not happen, so it will remain in the next formation. There has been a very important and fundamental change during the XIII membership. In fact, if the previous two compositions of the Riigikogu go down in history in such a way that there were no committees in the Riigikogu at all, because the work of the committees was not recorded, it is now done and it is very important. Thank God that history has now preserved at least something that has happened in the committees. But, by the way, it turned out recently that this is not necessarily the case at the moment, because if, for example, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or another ministry sends us a paper and a seal is placed on this corner that it is for official use, then, as Counselor Kristo Varend of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs explained to me, our wise Rules of Procedure say that in this case the committee meeting will not even be recorded for history, not to mention to make a protocol for public use. So this protocol issue has not been completed. Mr Pomerants rightly said that the fundamental problem of the Riigikogu was ideological, as he called it, and that is what Mr Herkel said, too, is whether the most important part of the Riigikogu is a political group or whether the most important part of the Riigikogu is a member of the Riigikogu. According to the current Rules of Procedure, the most important is undoubtedly the faction with almost all rights, and the member of the Riigikogu has only a few small rights in addition to this. The second thing you can say is that the main palace of the Riigikogu's Rules of Procedure seems to be two things: firstly, to keep working time to a minimum, and secondly, to make it as easy as possible for the President to manage the Riigikogu sitting. This is the legacy we pass on to the next Riigikogu. In a few months' time, half of the members will be new here, and they will come back to realize in three years' time that these Rules are not the best in this world. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U153	Thank you. Eiki Nestor on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U154	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank the members of the body of elders who made a contribution on this subject. As you can see, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs was based here on clear logic and brought the draft of the Riigikogu Chamber in a form that could receive the support of 51 parliamentarians. However, a number of proposals were left out, and I believe that the next Riigikogu will not get away with dealing with these issues. In my opinion, the most important drawback here is what Mr Jürgen Ligi was talking about. I would put this question in a slightly different way: it is the ability of the Riigikogu to adequately respond to questions raised in society. I must say that I have been convinced of this for quite a long time, on the basis of the time I spent in my own ministry. Once upon a time, such an extremely sad and serious story happened that people in Pärnu began drinking methanol and therefore left their lives. The problem was extremely acute. As minister, I asked permission to come to the Question Time, because society naturally discussed this issue warmly and seriously. I couldn't come to the briefing because I had been here just a week before as a minister, and this week it was the duty of the other ministers to come to the briefing. The final result was that it was discussed everywhere else, in the media, in corridors, in political groups, and the only place where this issue was not discussed was this hall. That's the kind of situation that shouldn't happen. There are two simple examples of this autumn. The first is a case with a short name in the Forest. Has the Riigikogu discussed this in any way in plenary? You can even see that there is no suitable form of how to do this. The second and very hot story didn't happen until recently. If the draft statement by the Riigikogu on the migration framework had not been submitted, the Riigikogu would not have had a form to discuss this issue. I have been deeply convinced that Question Time should be different, this should be a place where a political debate on hot topics can be held, we should not discuss any individual issues here. Ultimately, questions can always be answered in the same way as in the next example, which I will give in the light of my experience. It's one of the answers I remember especially. The questioner did not fit in one minute, he spoke for a minute and a half, the manager interrupted him several times and asked him to ask a question. The minister answered the question: 'No. " That was the whole answer. This probably goes down in the history of the Riigikogu as the shortest answer, because it is not possible to come up with a shorter one. But, in principle, we are unable to regulate the quality of the answers in any way under the Rules of Procedure. So I am, by all means, grateful to the Commission for removing from the law the errors that are clearly included there today, also in terms of the governance of this House. For example, the fact that, although the initiator or the Commission may have gotten smarter by Monday, it has no right to exclude some points from the agenda, which is completely absurd. If the initiator or committee of the draft does not wish to hold this debate, it must behave uglylyly, which, once again, will discredit the Riigikogu, right? That mistake has now been eliminated. In the same way, I am very grateful that we do not have to argue about the fact that if the government has committed itself to trusting a draft, whether or not the government must come to the Riigikogu plenary and whether or not the minister must answer the questions. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U155	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U156	On the substance side, I think this is completely stupid. If the government is already committed to trusting a draft, then a member of the government must be present here and must also answer questions, especially before the House. These errors have now been corrected. Thank you very much to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. But further work, I do not know whether with this bill or with the next Riigikogu, should certainly be aimed at ensuring that the House has the ability to respond to the current issues in society. It does not require a draft law, it does not even require a statement or a draft decision, it is sufficient, for example, for the political groups to report on Tuesday on what subject they want to discuss in Question Time. The Prime Minister is obliged to come here, and he will decide who the ministers are, who he will take with him. There is an introduction, there is a brief answer and after that the questions and answers will begin, the matter will be discussed depending on whether this day has been requested for one, two or perhaps three topics in discussion, it can be regulated in time. But then it would be clear that, through some longer debate, the Riigikogu reacts to the issues that currently exist in society. In conclusion, the Rules of Procedure have been of great help to our parliamentary organisation. I can give you an example that our good guest, who is currently visiting here in Georgia, is moving towards a parliamentary state with constitutional changes, yesterday expressed a firm conviction in our conversation that, now that they have a new constitution, the Prime Minister should be in Parliament at least four times a year. You'll even understand the situation we're in. When I said that in our parliamentary country the Prime Minister came here four times a month, the Georgians, colleagues, were beautifully surprised. So once again, I thank the members of the body of elders, and I also thank the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for the work they have done. These relatively practical problems that interfere with the work of the Riigikogu plenary can be resolved. But to say that the Rules of Procedure could not be any better, obviously cannot. Let us hope, then, that perhaps even the proposals for the greater public will be supported, so that they will be approved by 51 ambassadors, it can be changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U157	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 762. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 762 amendments at 17:00 on 15 January 2019.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U158	Let's go to agenda number five. First reading of Bill 778 on the Implementation of the Personal Data Protection Act initiated by the Constitutional Commission. Marko Pomerants, Chairman of the Constitutional Commission, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U159	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't have much time to tell you about this bill. Last week you were all involved, or who was involved, in the fact that we did not support this draft as a law on my proposal. The reason was that there may have been a conflict with the Constitution resulting from changes introduced into the Prison Act prior to the second reading of the Personal Data Protection Act. This does not mean that the law implementing the Personal Data Protection Act is not needed in Estonia. Therefore, the first reading is accompanied by a text which is, in substance, as it was at the time of the second reading, with the exception of amendments to the Prisoning Act. The opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is that this draft law should now go to the end of three readings so that it can be implemented, because we have adopted the Personal Data Protection Act itself. It is certainly not the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that all the acts necessary for implementation should be dealt with on a sectoral basis in the various committees. Procedural decisions: propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda today (common understanding), propose that the first reading of the draft be closed (consensus), propose that the deadline for tabling amendments be 10 working days, i.e. 7 January 2019 at 5.15 p.m. (consensus), and appoint Marko Pomerants, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as rapporteur for the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U160	Thank you, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. You have at least one question. Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U161	Mr President of the Commission. I have, in general, observed the completion of this bill. In the course of the examination of the proposed amendments, does the Commission have any intention of reviewing points other than the Prisoning Act? I am thinking specifically about whether it would not be appropriate to consult the Archives Council as well. The archival law is being amended, but the proposed amendment here is like a carrot inside a cake that does not know the theory or practice of the archival law or the European level and the wording is weak, and this would probably lead to a series of trials and so on. Is it wise to change anything else or to try and save it?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U162	Thanks! As far as the subject of archives is concerned, we have received a letter from the State Archives regarding this bill. We'll deal with it. Well, that's about the other topic. But I can promise, for my part, that the methodology will be in line with the rules of procedure and the rules of procedure that we have at our disposal. If there are specific amendments, I am not saying that they cannot come. I don't have a chance.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-18_U163	Thank you. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. No callers. I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 778. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of 778 amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 7 January 2019. We have also finished processing the fifth item, and this is the end of our sitting today. I'll see you tomorrow. Have a good day. Closure of the sitting at 12.30 p.m.
