ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the session of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday of the 4th working week. I'm ready to accept drafts and inquiries. I don't see that wish. Incoming check, please! 64 MPs will attend the meeting.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U2	Today's first item is the first reading of the draft Act amending the VAT Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Minister of Finance Toomas Tõniste, please waitress. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U3	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The first reading is the draft Act amending the VAT Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. The draft proposes three substantive changes. First, the transfer of construction land is not exempt and the concept of construction land is introduced into the law. Under the current rules, the transfer of immovable property constitutes exempt turnover, with the exception of the exceptions provided for in the law. One such exception is the plot whose transfer must be taxed. Taxation is based on the VAT Directive, under which the transfer of land intended for construction must be taxed. The plot is a land designated by a detailed plan under the Planning Act, for which construction rights have been granted. However, in some cases land that does not have a detailed plan can also be built.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U4	Dear waitress, I'll interrupt for a moment. Ladies and gentlemen, As chairman of the sitting, I promise that there will be negotiations, but a little later. Please, Mr. Minister!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U5	Thank you. Since the property concept does not cover all the items which have to be taxed under the VAT Directive, it is replaced by the construction land concept. According to the draft law, construction land is an immovable property within the meaning of the General Part of the Civil Code Act, i.e. a piece of land which is unbuilt and is designed to be constructed under design conditions, detailed plan or special plan of the State or local government, or for which a construction notice has been submitted, or for which the cadastral unit's purpose is residential or commercial land. The tax object does not expand significantly, since the detailed plan for the disposal of the plot of land intended for construction is mostly in place and has little impact on the revenue of the state budget. The amendment is therefore introduced so that similar transactions are taxed in the same way and the regulation is more in line with the VAT Directive. Secondly, metal products with code 721691, e.g. profile sheet, ventilation, aspiration, smoke and rain pipes, are excluded from the reverse charge goods. The amendment was proposed by entrepreneurs and the Estonian Association of Construction Materials Producers. Since there have been no significant tax fraud on these products even before the introduction of reverse charge, we agreed to the proposal. Third, the invoice procedure is amended when the invoice is submitted for inward-charged goods. Under the current rules, goods subject to internal reverse charge must be invoiced separately. The draft provides for the possibility for economic operators to submit goods and services subject to both special and general rules on a single sales invoice when the turnover has taken place at the time the invoice is issued. In addition to these amendments, a drafting amendment is made to Paragraph 11 (2) of the VAT Act. The amendment emphasises that the regulation contained in the provision on the time when the turnover took place applies only to intra-Community turnover of goods and not to the service. The Act amending the VAT Act is due to enter into force on 1 April 2018. The provisions on taxation of the disposal of construction land are due to enter into force from 1 September 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U6	Any questions for the Minister? Yes, it is. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U7	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I understand that rainwater pipes and ventilation equipment are being removed from reverse charge as they do not involve VAT fraud and are generally sold separately or as a project product. But then I ask why, for example, water supply pipes are treated differently, even though they are sold either separately or as a project product. One example simply, water supply systems. How do they differ from ventilation systems?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U8	Thank you for your question. These are proposals made by entrepreneurs and the Estonian Association of Construction Materials Manufacturers. Really, I don't know exactly why one or the other product doesn't go down there.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U9	Aivar Chef.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U10	Good manager! Good minister! Why don't you explain again this first point, the VAT system of property treated as construction land? There is also a VAT liability in the current law when sales are made from an undertaking to an undertaking and the land is acquired later than in 2005. What are we gonna change about this correction anyway?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U11	Thank you for your question. According to the Planning Act, the plot is a detailed planning area for which construction rights have been granted. The concern is that in some cases land that does not have a detailed plan can also be built on parcels. This is why the concept of 'construction land' is introduced so that all parcels can be taxed in the same way and taxation is also more in line with the VAT Directive.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U12	Aivar Chef, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U13	Thank you for your answer. I have one more question. Does this also apply to land acquired before 2005?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U14	Good question. I'll go over it and let you know. I think it does, but I'm not sure right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U15	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U16	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! Can you tell us how many or how many of these lots we have that can be regarded as construction land when selling, that is, how many parties are affected by this change and who will make this change in the registers?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U17	Thank you. It is estimated that there may be about a hundred such transactions. The average price for selling commercial land and residential land in 2016 was EUR 4000. When we talk about budgetary implications, it can be estimated at around EUR 80,000, that is VAT on these transactions. These transactions will be formalised in the same way as they have been so far, there will be no change in that sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U18	Minister, there are no further questions for you. The commission's proposal, and above all the presentation, is presented by Mikhail Stalnukhin, Chairman of the Monetary Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U19	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee discussed the draft law at its regular meeting on 15 January. Mr. Minister and officials from the Ministry of Finance were present. The explanation of the substance of the law was more or less the same as you were told in the previous speech. Then there were a series of questions. I begin by saying that there was the same question posed by my colleague, the Hatter, that what is the number of these transactions? The answer was that the explanatory memorandum states that there are around 2400, but since some conditions do not apply, those that are taxed under this law are less than 100, about, more precisely, not possible, and the average value of these transactions is EUR 4000. Then there was the question of reverse charge, and there was a rather long explanation that there was a directive on the Euro Commission. This is stated in the relevant section of the draft, and there are also the codes for all these products, which I think are now called the codes. That's where that choice comes from. However, it was said that no irregularities have been detected in the metal sector and this amendment is made because there is a directive. By the way, the explanatory memorandum is accompanied by Annex 1 which states compliance with the Directive. After the adoption of this law, compliance is already 100%. There were questions as to why the date of entry into force was foreseen in such a way that part of the law would enter into force on 1 April and part of the law on 1 September. This is necessary in order to allow sufficient time to inform. They asked if the agencies could organise their work. The Commission was convinced they would. Then there was the question of the impact on the state budget. This is a little out of the question, so that was the answer. So, there was a question about the coordination circle. All these organisations are mentioned in the explanatory memorandum, there are seven of them, all associations were able to express their views on the draft. Only the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry made a comment and it concerned a small part of the explanatory memorandum. If you look at the explanatory memorandum that has been submitted to the hall, you will see that there is an annex 2 at the end, which contains a note from the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, on the basis of which this correction was made. Then decisions were made. It was decided to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu that this draft be sent to the hall by 6 February, i.e. today. It was decided that the deadline for submitting amendments would be 5.15 p.m. on 20 February and that the rapporteur would be the chairman of the committee. The fate of the bill was also voted in favour of 10 and against 1. The decision is that the first reading must be completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U20	A round of questions will be opened by Küllik's Hatter. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U21	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! In your report, you pointed out that there are no violations in the metal market. Can you explain why these two types of metal go under the so-called speciality, but the rest of them don't? Does the directive make this necessary, does it introduce any differences for the relevant types of metal? What did you have in the committee during the debate?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U22	Thank you. There was no specific debate in the Commission as to why some go and others do not go. But I have tried to understand why this is also the case with Mrs Sõerd, who asked the Minister here, and I think the answer is that, firstly, we have certain organisations that, as Mr Sõerd said in his presentation, can make proposals for this list. In the explanatory memorandum, I understood that it is the directive that we are talking about.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U23	Aivar Sõerd.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U24	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable waitress! Is it going to be the case that some organization is coming, proposing to file an application from a hatch, and then the bill comes out of the other hatch? Is it true that if, for example, there is a special interest in taking some metal products out of reverse charge, then the carousel of the law will immediately start working and we will confirm it? Is that how it's gonna be from now on?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U25	Thank you. If this organisation is the Euro Commission, then yes, that is how it is going to happen. If this is the directive of the Euro Commission, that is exactly what happens to us in the Republic.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U26	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U27	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable waitress! You referred to Aivar Sõerd's question to which the Minister replied that the operators proposed. At the moment, you actually referred to the fact that if the Commission makes a proposal, that is probably what will happen. It's like trying to figure out whether either they're both right or they're only right. If the Minister indicated that the operators proposed, and Aivar Sõerd asked now, what is the answer, whether it is the Commission alone or how it should be understood?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U28	Thank you. As I have already answered one question here, the question from which it came was not discussed in the Commission. When I read the draft law, I understood that it complied with the directive. But I actually have a lot less information than the Ministry of Finance and the Minister of Finance. So I guess one and the other gets together here.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U29	Dear waitress, there are no further questions for you. I will open the negotiations of the political groups. I don't see any requests. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 556. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft at 5.15 p.m. on 20 February.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U30	The second item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Income Tax Act initiated by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. Mr Jürgen Ligi, member of the Riigikogu, please waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U31	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The purpose of this draft is to exempt pensions from the tax-free income calculated from that year, i.e. essentially the withdrawal of the tax-free income if the income exceeds a certain threshold. The reason for the proposal is, in general, that pensions are currently heavily discriminated against in the calculation of tax-free income. In order to finance this so-called EUR 500 minimum, the additional tax exemption on pensions has been abolished and, of course, the poorest people will not get anything out of this social policy through income tax exemption. So as a social policy measure, it has actually failed. All in all, the result is that pensioners are lagging behind the overall increase in wealth. The result of this income tax accounting is, in essence, an increase in both absolute and relative poverty, both ugly and ugly. The maximum win for pensioners is 12 euros, for others it is up to 62 euros this year, and this win will be won by very few, most pensioners are unlikely to win anything from their pension, as this minimum will be taken away from them. On the other hand, pensioners also have other incomes, and that is why the impact of all this is such that they will be more quickly deprived of tax-free income, more quickly eliminated because of this scheme. Why do we have to discuss this today? First of all, because the fruit is now in hand, the fruit that was sown with this cluster bill. It has been loved to draw inappropriate parallels with the cluster bill of the past, but I assure you that the Republic of Estonia does not feel that this is the way the different laws have been stacked up in this amount and immediately for the first reading. There were no coordination circles or substantive analyses. This number of laws.. each of these laws would have deserved a separate item on the agenda is also very large. In addition to income tax, the topic of health promotion in the cluster was, in fact, very controversial in social terms, social tax increases, excise duty on beer and wine, excise duty on natural gas, VAT on hotels, family benefits, work capacity allowance, labour market services, health insurance. Each of them deserves a separate item on the agenda, but in essence, the opposition was given the opportunity to give at least one eight-minute speech at two readings on about ten amendments to the law, in which everyone has a small world hidden, and there was also the opportunity to express their opinion at the night hearing, so that no one would hear it. The result is that although the consequences that we see today are both emotional and practical, or financial, we could not draw attention to them. The law itself was insane enough, so the specialists didn't find out the whole effect at the first moment. The immediate motive for this draft was, in fact, panic in the banks, although there should generally be very good financial specialists. They have already started to offer customers that the third pillar should be sold because it will be subject to 30% income tax in the future. A little overdoing it, after consulting with the Treasury Department, they kept scratching their heads, and they found that might not be the case. In principle, however, the state has been deceiving people with this measure; it has broken its promise that the pension system will be created for decades. This tax regime, by which people are forced to join the third and mostly the second pillar, is now changing. If there are other revenues, the tax rate on pension pillars will increase. When starting from the third pillar, it was natural to move towards the second pillar, but the effects of the first pillar are also those that the state should not really afford. From the current average pension tax exemption, we are going to move towards a higher tax burden for pensioners than to look at all these measures as a whole. Of course, pension is a general concept within the meaning of tax laws, it includes old-age pension, early retirement pension, preferential old-age pension, special pensions, survivor's pension, disability pension. All types of pensions are treated as a general term in the Income Tax Act; a separate section is mentioned in the second and third pillars already mentioned here. We believe that all pensions should be exempt from the tax-free minimum. First of all, the state has a duty to keep its word that the current tax regime will be maintained when it joins the pension pillars. In the case of the third pillar, this means a 20% refund in the case of a contribution and the payment is either tax-free when paid as an annuity, or the rate is 10% if this money is withdrawn under a different regime. But the same must apply to the other pillars. Of course, the economic policy objective in this draft is that working at retirement age is, however, very clearly favoured. People need to understand that they are welcome in the labour market and are not tempted by complex tax accounting and higher tax rates when they earn extra retirement. That is the essence of this draft. I hope that this will help the government coalition, which has promised extraordinary pension increases. However, it should start with the opt-out and continue to consider whether there is an exceptional rise in money in a situation where the budget is already in deficit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U32	Aivar Sõerd begins the round of questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U33	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! This is an extremely necessary draft. The crime was committed and was not discussed, and all the advantages of this tax drive or the new tax montage were discussed in a positive key all last year, but no one spoke about the pensioners. The fact that this hatchet hit pensioners is extremely unfair. But I wanted to ask you more about the pension system. You said about the third pillar that banks are even considering selling these portfolios. I hope it doesn't go that far. However, the third pillar is about EUR 150 million and mandatory pension funds represent 3.3 billion, which grows to 200 million a year, while this third pillar is practically stationary. What does that mean? Could this mean the disappearance of the third pillar? At least the investors don't seem to be coming up any more if the country is acting so word-flashing.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U34	Thank you. First of all, to your introduction, I would add that yes, it is indeed a mess. I don't know if it shows the level of development of the government or its attitude towards the electorate, but this slogan that everyone who makes up to 1200 euros wins has been a scam since the beginning. And they say they're gonna win 64 euros. These figures are all fraud. Not a change has been assessed, but it has been estimated at some amount of money compared to the previous year, not the current year, not the RES and the policy that would have been in place for this year. So, in any case, this scheme is a fraud and also a social policy failure. Whoever was watching the "Actual Camera" knows that now it's starting to arrive without this screw-up, the statistics that show that we really have problems. There are more dependants, and the workers don't grow on them. Pensioners are becoming increasingly disadvantaged in relative poverty. This measure gives a strong impetus here. We are moving pensioners even more towards relative poverty, and many also towards absolute poverty, because the financing of this measure means more spending on the poor, in particular, in proportion. Different excise duties, increased cost of living and, of course, taking away the tax-free minimum from pensioners, all of this affects them in the direction of disadvantage. But indeed, what a citizen has been able to do against this whole demographic matter and where the country has actually had an obligation to respond has been the second and third pillars. The unpopularity of the third pillar is actually a bit mysterious. People should rather have been given stronger national propaganda to join it, but there is now evidence that the third pillar is much less paid, from the end of last year, because the news came to light. This statistics, how much they sell, might have been a little more lenient if it had been true that the initial understanding that 30% income tax would apply to these payments. But now, indeed, it is said that no more mergers, no more contributions will be made, and some will also sell this pillar. There have been very strong disappointments that we are now fed up with, promised that for decades this regime will be able to raise a pension, I joined, but now I am sick of this government. Simple things can cause a great deal of resentment and resentment, and for a reason. This is a very big problem when people give up saving. Its amplification is greater than the amount they're losing. People just give up on securing their future, and then the country has to twitch. He suddenly discovers that, oh, we have a lot of pensioners. What do we do now? Why don't we raise the pension? But there is, of course, no way to raise it, because there is no way to extra tax the shrinking workforce. That is why we need to remember the old peasant wisdom and not only collect the coffin money but also the inheritance, leave something for situations where man really can't cope. It can be a long life span, it can be diseases, it can be very different events that a person needs to prepare for himself. The third pillar was this option; it is the only flexible and publicly supported saving regime, the best of which cannot be devised.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U35	Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U36	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! You have just referred here to a night hearing, which was said to have been a very interesting presentation, which very few could listen to. Yeah, I like such private and exclusive presentations myself, but unfortunately I didn't get an invitation to this event. If there is a video footage of this performance, will you be able to send a link to other members of the Riigikogu so that we can review it? We'd all be in the same information room.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U37	Thank you, Mr. Kruss Mountain! I don't understand what you're doing in this hall. Why do you come here just to chat and talk about it? I really don't understand why. I don't have an answer to that, I'm not a film director or an archivist. You take care of yourself.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U38	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U39	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, The Government of the Republic has also given its opinion on this draft. In this opinion, it is said that granting an exception to working pensioners or pensioners at all would mean unequal treatment of other groups of persons. It is as if it is not justified to grant any kind of advantage. Please, Jürgen Ligi, comment on this government position, this unequal treatment of pensioners.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U40	Yeah, it's pretty funny. It's kind of a copy-paste cut. For years, I've had the opportunity to take this kind of crap out of the texts I sign. But I understand that the policy of the new government is to say that we are asking the pensioners to contribute more to the common boiler. After all, this has been the message of both the Prime Minister and, I think, the Honorable Deputy Speaker to the murmured pensioners: pay more, it is the worst of you. As they love to say, the voters have trusted them. We're not trusted, are we? They're in charge. We are in opposition, which we little ones can say. But it sounds cynical. The demographic situation is a reality in which we are all equally involved and, if I may say so, the guilty. However, the only way to deal with it collectively is to understand together that savings must be made, that these difficulties must be overcome, and that is to manage with fewer workers and more dependants. It is best to alleviate this situation by means of personal savings, and for each of us individually.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U41	Tarmo Kruusimäe, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U42	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! You are deliberately misleading the voters if you claim here that it was possible to hold a night hearing. As far as I know, there was no overnight session during this year's state budget discussions. Why it didn't happen, of course you can answer it yourself. I think that here you should apologise to the people who are watching us because you shared misinformation as if the opposition had had the opportunity to speak. You didn't take this opportunity yourself.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U43	Well, I don't know, there's no question. But still, Mr. Kruusemägi, you're talking nonsense. I was talking about the cluster bill, you're talking about this year's budget. Find out where you are, what the order is and how the agenda regulates your speeches. I've been pointing out before that things don't really work out here, so everyone tells me what's coming to mind. Still got to stick to the subject. Word usage can be personal, but not theme selection. You do not have to bring your subjects here; you must follow the agenda of the Riigikogu. [[???Hääl saalist: 'Mis see Kruusimägi siia puutub?'???]] Sorry, Kruusimägi is my party partner! Tarmo Kruusimäe. I'm sorry, now I'm sorry! Yeah, I was wrong.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U44	Now it's said. Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U45	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You mentioned in your report, and the statistics also prove that the number of taxpayers will indeed be smaller and, in fact, pensioners will inevitably have to work if they have this ability, they will also want to work. Now we have seen that the new government has begun to punish it more like it is. Can you tell us what the reason is or why they want to do so? Statistics support a different approach. All the hands of work are welcome, every contribution is expected and should not be penalised in the slightest, especially for pensioners.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U46	The cause is surely greed and stupidity. I want to hope that this was not an awareness of age discrimination, which is taking place unconsciously in society all the time, much more than gender discrimination, I say. But stupidity started after something was allowed out in a commercial somewhere, and then there were talking points somewhere that said that everyone who earns so much and so much would win 64 euros. Even if you ask me to illustrate it, you're wrong about numbers and drawings at the level of basic school. In fact, their electoral compositions cannot be converted into any mathematical or verbal models, nor do they know where the actual social and economic effects arise. It's completely scandalous, completely stupid. But we will try to help the government by explaining how it has generally been the custom in the Republic of Estonia to analyse politics and also prepare drafts. This 2016 cluster bill is an unprecedented cluster, even in the time of the great crisis in June, still tried to argue before the Riigikogu, there were definitely analyses, we still knew what the effects were. At the moment, the work discovers that, oh, some are upset about why they're upset. It has been surprising not to have remembered these natural schemes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U47	Helmut Hallemaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U48	Thank you, Vice President. Good waitress! Actually, we heard some pretty interesting things today, like everything changed suddenly, in one day. But my question comes from your report, where you repeated several times that it was as if the demographic situation had changed because of the income tax exemption. My diploma allows me to say that demographic processes are very long-term. Those trends are across Europe that society is ageing and that pensioners are gaining ground. The second thing is that you have always said in the Reform Party that taxes must be the same for everyone. Today, however, it turns out that pensioners need different tax applications, tax rates. Is this a conscious change in your thinking? The third thing that was quite interesting is that the increase in income tax exemption to EUR 500, which helps people with very significantly lower and medium wages and incomes, suddenly led pensioners into relative poverty. The limit for relative poverty is EUR 468 and the average pension is EUR 416, which is not the case because of this change.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U49	Thank you. First of all, we have our first diploma in common, and I know for a fact that we weren't taught any illogicality or that we were taught to show your stupidity. I have never said that the demographic situation has changed because of this tax change, but demographic change, i.e. an ageing population, a reduction in the number of employees, particularly the relative reduction in the number of pensioners, new requirements for policy making and an additional burden. The easiest thing we can do is not take pensions as a source of tax, but use the pension system to give people a stronger incentive to save. This tax change is destimulating, it takes away the interest in saving, it reduces the belief that the state favours saving, the belief that the state wants pensioners on the labour market, and it also tells the working age to employ pensioners, treat them as a necessary workforce. This effect is emotionally much more important than it looks at the first moment, mathematically taking. As far as relative and absolute poverty is concerned, however, I am surprised that you have not followed the debates that have taken place in public. I am really surprised that pensioners' income is now falling below the average median income because they are gaining very little (up to EUR 12) or not at all. I suggest that most of them do not gain anything because their pension is below this EUR 442. It is natural for others to move away when money is added to them. And also social tax accounting: if it is generally said that the measure costs some 147 million, about 90 million social tax should be deducted from it. If you take that into account, the calculation would be a little different, but okay. The whole package needs to be looked at together with the sources of funding, and we need to see where the extractions come from, where the additions come from. Families with children, for example. Their tax exemption has always been a bad measure, as larger and poorer families cannot obtain this benefit. If the overall minimum is raised upwards, the likelihood that these poorer families will have an additional minimum in terms of the number of children will become even lower. As the abolition of joint declarations is also one of the sources of funding, the situation is also getting worse for pensioners living together. So in any case, you've done to the pensioners... I can't say that I do a disservice, because a disservice means you wanted good, but came out clumsy as always. You didn't mean well, you wanted to take where it seemed easy to take to finance the obsession that all party presidents praised at the last press conference, but now they're starting to regret. Exactly the same thing as beer excise or wine excise: everyone was very happy and commended, but now it is quietly said that they should have thought a little. But this is the result of the cluster bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U50	To the questioners, I would remind them that, at the time of the first reading, the questioners will be able to ask a total of two questions. Rather, do not take the opportunity to ask three questions in one minute. Listeners have long forgotten the first before the end of the question. Urve Tiidus, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U51	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, I'm asking about the third pension pillar. It was born 20 years ago and was said to be unlucky at first, but then people realized that saving and collecting for their own future was a meaningful activity. It was very motivating in this regard to the same tax exemption, as well as to the fact that the tax system is maintained and maintained as such. Now we see that it is still possible to change everything. But at that time it was such a relatively broad understanding of the principles of the third pillar. What really should happen to restore this original will? You mentioned that the banks have said that the third pillar is not as successful as it could have been. What should I do?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U52	Thank you. I still think that the spirit of saving is something that needs to be instilled in people. There is no point in making any additional benefits in this pillar, because it is such a clearly preferred way of saving. But it is precisely this saving spirit that the government would be right to promote. The impact of the tax change made by the government is clearly the opposite. We offer a solution. The banks really feel a fool because they have done a very active sales job to get people to join the third and second pillars. Now they're done selling this third pillar, according to my records. I can't put my hand on my heart, but I've been asking them. Luckily, they don't do the kind of sales work that you're selling fast now, because the country's coming up with 30%. But in any case, it's a betrayal of state behavior. This is a betrayal of society as a whole, because the demographic situation is not something that should be forgotten due to the fall of governments, about the fact that we have an obsession and let's keep going, all right? This was a promise made for decades, and actually, if I may say so, a commitment made for a thousand years, concerning people's ability to cope in old age. It's betrayed right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U53	Please, Yoko Alender!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U54	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! We're making a correction for the coalition's mistakes here. But I'm interested in your judgment. While you mentioned that this is the result of the cluster bill, which is the most important reason here? The members of the coalition have viewed taxation of working pensioners in very different ways in their comments. Did this happen by accident, by incompetence and ignorance, or did the working pensioner's wallet go on purpose?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U55	Thank you. That's a good question. I know how governments really make decisions. I don't think the government had any information about where the money was taken. There were very clear pictures that were offered to them, and they knew exactly where they were taking the money from so that they could somehow be painted over those Ducks eggs. It's actually a pretty cynical calculation. I can even understand the logic of officials here because they have to somehow get out of this mess, some people like it, but the social effects are uncalculated. In my opinion, a member of the government must be at such a level that he does not have to calculate; he should also, in his dream, understand what will happen. I checked the explanatory memorandum to the cluster bill, just in case, and I found all the things about the disappearance of the advantage from children, the withdrawal of money from pensioners and other effects. There is, of course, not an adequate description of where these maximum victories are and how many actually get involved. The last end will always be undisturbed. It is always said that we are fighting poverty and inequality. Poverty, as Mr Ossinovski has said, must have been an even greater enemy than a gay or Russian or a single woman. That's the kind of slogan he had. He can afford these slogans, but he should not allow a policy that actually increases poverty and inequality. The indicator of relative poverty in itself is very socialist and doubtful. Relative poverty will always remain, it is an inexhaustible source of demagogy, but if this is already so much, it must also be taken into account in a particular policy. I think that Evgeny Ossinovski even made some kind of committee that needs to see how all policies affect poverty. Maybe we should ask him next time: 'Mr Ossinovski, you made this commission. What did it say about the impact of this tax exemption on poverty, absolute and also relative? You said you'd come out and talk, please! ' And push it over! I guess I wasn't quite the first, or let's just say that I wasn't the only one who started thinking this way, that listen, it's not helping the poor, it's rather pushing pensioners towards relative poverty. These additional obligations, the sources of funding, the excise duties, the withdrawal of the tax-free minimum, all of them, in fact, burden the bottom part in terms of income. Revert my calculations that it increases both absolute and relative poverty. The financing of this whole thing, the shift in the tax burden from one to another, and people by one, is not just an individual act.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U56	Thomas Stone Mountain.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U57	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, The biggest problem facing the Estonian economy in the near future is the shortage of labour. I think that the government's decision to extraly tax pensioners has the worst effect on pensioners as a signal that we do not really need their workforce. I would say even more: it is absolutely cynical to tax people who have actually earned their pensions. They have paid their taxes in order to receive a pension, and now they are ready to contribute further to society. I also hoped that it was a coalition mistake, that it was simply not noticed in the great rush. But you just said in advance that it was very clearly and unambiguously written in the explanatory memorandum. In my opinion, it is particularly cynical to knowingly tax pensioners for their work. Is that really the case?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U58	Yeah. I can confirm it with these words that the explanatory memorandum showed that intelligent people have also been involved in law making, they have found at least the main points of how the tax burden shifts through individual measures. But in my opinion, the social impact that Mr Ossinovski has promised to return to that name has not been taken into account. I was very upset when he announced that this committee was being set up, because this figure could be subject to the whole world. From now on, we will have the October Revolution, because it is very good to eradicate poverty so that we take away from those who do. Luckily, this company hasn't started working violently like this, but I think it's a good idea for her to come along. If we declare that inequality and poverty are the biggest problems, then we must also acknowledge that we have done something wrong. I think it is obvious that a large number of people are moving towards poverty and this inequality indicator is increasing. This concerns both relative and absolute poverty. Of course, one thing is this way, but you also asked about the impact on the economy. Indeed, the government's concern should be the shortage of labour, as well as the attitude towards older workers, not how to finance their election promise at the expense of the elderly.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U59	Andres Ammas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U60	Honorable manager! Respectable waitress! When we were together at the meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs where this draft was discussed, the possible financial impact of this draft on the state budget remained unclear because the representative of the Ministry of Finance either did not have these data or did not want to tell us. In the meantime, have you found out any predictions that might have an impact on this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U61	Thank you. Here's one thing. I failed to confess was I never prepared a text ahead of me that the explanatory statement was not quite clear. After all, I described the impact of the draft, but the explanatory memorandum did not correct that it did not only concern the three pillars, it also concerns other pensions. This was also one of the reasons why these calculation options were different. But we tested it on the committee. We estimate that the impact of this bill is around 20 million. The official seemed satisfied with that. So, certainly, if pensions can be raised in a way that is feasible, I think that we would all like to stick to the right increases, then honesty in taxation could be the right method, a method that does not discriminate against working or earning other revenues. Other revenues may include the sale of real estate, land or forest, or dividends received from somewhere. So it's not just that there's a working pensioner. After all, all income is now broken together. After all, the advantage of joint declarations is virtually lost, which would allow for the distribution of exemptions between spouses.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U62	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U63	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! There has been much talk about working pensioners and their taxation in your answers, as well as in your presentation. Have I understood correctly, and is it true that if we look at the government, it turns out that the loss of the Prime Minister due to all this tax crap is 36 euros, but a working pensioner with an income of over 2100 euros actually loses over 80 euros? Is that really true?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U64	No answer. You're unfair to the Prime Minister. He's not gonna lose 36 euros. He's gonna lose 38 euros. Two euros is money, maybe not given your salary, but it's certainly important to the Prime Minister. That is also what the members of the government have said that they are willing to give up this 38 euros. Indeed, the possibility of a maximum pensioner's loss is much greater, not more than 80, but just a little less than 90 euros, i.e. 88 euros this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U65	Aivar Sõerd.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U66	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable waitress! After it came out of the tax scandal for working pensioners, coalition ambassadors began to step up one after the other and justify and highlight the positive sides of this tax system. Prime Minister Ratas said here, as if 10% were only those pensioners who are going to contribute more, and then came up with an argument that 80% of people would win because of the new tax system. But here it was said earlier that there has been a lot of confusion. How is it, then, is it not another sort of larger kind of deception? Because what is it? One who wins and loses how much will find out when the revenue for 2018 has been broken down, but the tax returns for 2018 have not yet been submitted. How can we now say how much someone wins and how much someone loses in percentage terms?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U67	Thank you. It's a verbal mythology, isn't it? They play different concepts here. The last black and white, if not to say that the colourful picture drawn by the Prime Minister was still that everyone who earns up to 1200 euros wins 64 euros. That's his statement, that's what he drew the picture for, and for that he went on television. The reality is that pensioners, the really poor, as well as the withdrawal of low-wage earners, the write-down of interest on housing loans, the reduction of the impact of the additional tax credit for children, and, of course, the latter, the poor who live on subsidies, were completely ignored. It was aware of verbal acrobatics. Prime Minister, when he was arguing with one of our party associates here, he publicly used rhetoric to say that those who earn up to EUR 1700 are working people and others are something else. They play simply by trying to give the impression that not everyone is full and that a worker is the same as a earner of income. In fact, most, two thirds of pensioners do not work. I guess this ignoring them shows an attitude, and it also shows what education is like. A person with sociological thinking cannot put into the woods with his own wording, as the Prime Minister has done.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U68	Kristen Michal.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U69	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I think this is a very important draft. Should it happen that it is not supported, it should be re-submitted until it is supported. But here's the question. On the signal given to working pensioners, as if their industriousness were not necessary for Estonia, I think what you think and many people have spoken or asked in this Chamber. Was it a cynical calculation that this problem was not noticed, or was it just a messy household? In private, several coalition ambassadors have told me that they are embarrassed. Have they told you that?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U70	No, they haven't told me. But I do know that in the coalition, the term 'rich pensioners' goes around, that they're not their business. This is a bad story when a person who earns a member's salary brands and depreciates people in this way. I don't think we should at all go through other people's wallets and make assessments, especially if we're doing much better, if I'm not mistaken, maybe even as a 'rich pension business'. Those words and that attitude deserve to be condemned.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U71	Toomas Jürgenstein.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U72	Good President! Good waitress! In social media, one of your positions in 2014 is a bit bullied. So you said that pensioners are privileged compared to other taxpayers. How do you make sense of this position today?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U73	Thank you. Just like in 2014. There was reason to highlight this because at that time they had an additional tax-free minimum and the current government took it away from them. It was not just a letter to pensioners on the anniversary that you were privileged, signed by the Minister of Finance Ligi, but it was a response to their request to receive various additional tax benefits. I thought there was food in it, but I really don't remember it that well. Like the strange view that we have less money and do not collect any other taxes from us that do not directly affect pensions. I indicated that this policy is government policy, so that they would have an advantage. I could not say otherwise either, because the additional demanders must always be described. I'm not ashamed of it. You said very well that this position was spread somewhat viciously, but in the same way, for example, the title of the debate on alcohol excise is distributed, where the previous Prime Minister says that alcohol duty reduces alcohol consumption. See, that's what he said, but look what he said! That's bullshit, isn't it? The excise duty reduces consumption to a certain limit, when it crosses the border, the excise duty goes too far. The consumer will enjoy a lower rate of excise duty, which can be enjoyed by buying from Latvia. Very simple. Not to mention the secret market, which is actually part of the border trade. But in general, all the titles are simplifications that have been made on certain assumptions, including what was plucked out of a letter to pensioners, and which I still assure you I am thinking the same way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U74	Thank you too, dear waitress. No further questions. The presentation of the commission will be made by Mikhail Stalnukhin, Chairman of the Monetary Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U75	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee discussed this draft law on 22 January. a. The content was introduced by Mr Ligi, as he did in this Chamber. I'm not gonna go over his story again. A government representative announced a government decision which is available in writing in a separate letter and is available online. There is another reason why I am not going to pass on its contents to you right now, all the more so because some things have still sounded on this subject, but a little later than that. Then there was an exchange of thoughts and questions. One question was exactly what Mr Ammas asked for in this Chamber today. In order to be clear on this subject, I will read it out, although I am not used to reading here: 'They wanted to know the financial implications of the draft for the state budget. ' I read it out because the answer recorded in the record is quite different from that given by the previous speaker. 'The initiator explained that the draft would result in a slight reduction in revenue and that this should be taken into account in the preparation of the state budget strategy. The representative of the Ministry explained that the impact on the state budget was, but since the draft did not reveal which pensions had been taken into account in particular, the amount is difficult to say. The originator agreed that there were shortcomings in the draft explanatory memorandum and claimed that it was difficult to carry out an analysis of the budgetary impact as the baseline data were not available. " This was said by a representative of the initiators, not by a representative of the ministry. It was then said about productivity that if the third pillar had productivity, would it be taxed? The answer was that it didn't go, the law has made clear all the cases when it doesn't. There was another question. It was asked that there might be a risk of mass withdrawals from the third pillar. The comment was that, in fact, this taxation technology will change from next year, so it is difficult to predict at the moment. The Commission subsequently adopted some decisions. It was decided to send the draft to the Chamber by today, 6 February (this was a consensual decision) and to appoint the chairman of the committee as rapporteur. A vote was taken on the proposal to reject the draft at first reading. It was supported by 6 and 5 members of the Commission, so the proposal was supported. We did not vote on the deadline for tabling amendments, but if the Commission does not, the rule is that the deadline is 10 days, i.e. 5.15 p.m. on 20 February, as was the case with the previous draft. Now I'm going to the second part. Yesterday, I learned from the chairman of my group that the Coalition Council has discussed this issue and it is clear that we need to take more seriously the problems associated with the second and third pillars of the pension. Life gives more information, perfect laws don't exist. I recall that for several years in this Chamber, the Law of Obligations Act was discussed and processed, if my memory is not deceived, it was done for five or six years, and it ended with saying, "Men, we will accept it, otherwise we will never be able to do this law, we will be able to fix it later. ' So the decision of the coalition is that we support the continuation of this draft. In any case, we hope that there will be a draft coming from the government on the same subject, so we can combine these drafts. This bill, which we have before us now, is, in my opinion, a little bit difficult in form. For example, one paragraph at a time refers to four paragraphs. If done properly, these changes could be recorded with specific sentences in these paragraphs etc. It's already more of a matter of taste, but it would make the law clearer in any case. That's the other reason I didn't start reading the government's opinion to you. Today we support the completion of the first reading. I am speaking now, both on behalf of the Central Party Group and, as far as I know, on behalf of the whole coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U76	I'm going to be more specific about what I just said. Was that the decision of the Centre Party Group or the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U77	I was talking about the decision of the Commission. The Commission decision (vote 6: 5) is to reject the draft at first reading. If any political group in the Riigikogu proposes voting and finishing the first reading, then we will probably join in most of the time, we will vote down the decision of the Commission and the procedure for the draft will continue. Then, for the first time, we will have the possibility that the coalition and opposition drafts will be united in the near future, which will show cooperation on behalf of seniors Estonia, which I have never seen before here.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U78	There are also questions for the rapporteur. Kristen Michal.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U79	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I got a little confused before the manager's details, whose position is now on the table. Would you repeat clearly? The Commission, where the coalition is in the majority, decided not to support the draft, but, on behalf of the coalition, as your rapporteur, you are proposing to proceed with this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U80	Yeah, weird, but you got it right. Yes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U81	Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U82	I'm shocked, and I don't know if I can formulate a question, but I'll try. No, I can't. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] All right. What exactly did you mean by the protocol being different from what I said on the remote? On the floor, I confessed to the ambiguity of the explanatory statement. I explained this to the birth story of this bill and admitted that precise calculations were difficult to calculate. I also described that the civil servant was satisfied with our assessment of his satisfaction with the fact that the budget had an impact of 20 million. What, exactly, was wrong with this story or different from the protocol?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U83	Thank you. I have now had the opportunity to respond to two members of the Riigikogu at once. Let me remind you that there is such a thing as a verbogram. Tarmo, right, if you're interested... I don't know if it's possible to find the video and how long they're kept at all, but the verbs are completely there. There is also a verbatim report for this sitting. We're just gonna take it out and take out the protocol. Maybe even the recording still exists, we usually delete it when we're done with the protocol, but if there is, we can specify it on that basis. Let's also take today's verbatim and compare. If what I read out is exactly the same as what was said in the committee, the next time I stand here, I apologize to you. [[???Hääl saalist: 'Väga hea!'???]] Then I did too much and that's it. Yeah, but I'm glad you're so glad you can't even formulate a question. Who would have expected such a result, wouldn't you? But I'm glad I brought you such joy in the house.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U84	I am happy to give Andres Ammas the right to ask the next question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U85	Honourable President! Respectable waitress! I welcome the decision of the Coalition Council to continue to ask. Did the Coalition Council also mention the possibility of more changes to the Income Tax Act, I am thinking of all the hump that has been planted in the IRL and the phenomenon that the mouth of the people has started to call the Parts eggs, and the whole system is turning back to a more reasonable path, not only to correct the mistakes made in the taxation of working pensioners and pensions?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U86	Thank you. Yeah, we deal with it all the time. There's work going on in this hall, so if you see something went wrong, you're gonna take out the text and try to fix it. Personally, I'm really happy. At the meeting with the Banking Association, there were a couple or three sentences on the subject that made you think. Although there was a surprise here for me, and I'll explain why I can't answer your question. I'm not a member of the Coalition Council. What they were talking about, I don't know. I have been informed of this decision, and I will pass it on.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U87	I have a proposal for the rapporteur: raise the microphones to the so-called Andres Herkel's position, perhaps a little higher, so you can hear better. Arto Aas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U88	Thank you. I would like to ask the rapporteur what happened in the next few weeks, that the coalition in the Commission voted down this draft first, but later it was decided to support it. Was the reason for this reconsideration caused by the great resentment of pensioners over such a policy or a government stoned rating that desperately led to the search for new approaches?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U89	Thank you. I don't do much political rhetoric here. [[Whispering in the hall.]] I'm interested in my book rating in the People's Book, that's the most important rating and the only thing I care about. So, Arto, there are several people here who chair the factions. If there's a chance, you can ask them or ask a journalist to ask them. I admit I don't know how to comment on this because I don't think I'm politician enough.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U90	Valdo Randpere.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U91	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! If the microphones don't lift, you can shoot a little down from the knee, the result is the same. But it was just a marginal note. I have a question that might add up a little bit to Andres Ammas's question. One thing is the Income Tax Act in general, but now the Deputy Head of the Centre Party has announced that you were too hasty with excise duties, went a little wrong and basically screwed up, and it turns out that with pensions you have also missed very much. Why don't we go back to this whole cluster law you've pushed through and start over? Why are you making mistakes here? Or do you admit that you can't do it and ask for our help more and more often?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U92	Thank you, Valdo! Point one, never will the middle party kneel before the Reform Party, as you wished at the beginning of the question. [[Laughing.]] Point two, the people will make their decision in a year's time. After all, there is a chance that the Reform Party will be re-elected, and then you will start to improve it all, and then the question is, if you do not like this law, should we go back to the previous situation, which would mean that the situation of 7% pensioners will improve and the 93% situation will deteriorate. Let everyone decide how to solve their problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U93	Helmut Hallemaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U94	Good President! Good waitress! I am also not interested in the issue of microphone height; my question relates to the draft under consideration. You mentioned a banking union here. What the banking union did to justify is that our pension fund money is being invested in the devil knows where, most pensioners don't know what it's doing or where it's spinning. In very many countries in our neighbourhood, pension funds have obligations in their own country. How did the Banking Union and the Members of the Commission justify that we cannot and must not put such a guideline in it?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U95	Thank you. We were visiting the Banking Association with the entire Finance Commission. In fact, we were invited there, and three topics were known. There were no pension pillars among them, it was an additional question which was put forward and asked very specifically what the situation of pay-up and pay-out was. That's what it sounded like when I suddenly messed up, the colleagues who were there are fixing that the balance has been positive for an average of about 2.5 million a month, but in December there was a discussion, wasn't there? It was exactly the other way around, 21⁄2 million. This issue, where there is greater productivity and where it would be worth investing more money, whether there are any opportunities in Estonia for the money to start working in the interests of our economy and, at the same time, in the interests of pensioners, was not at issue. We went past the time already agreed in the Banking Association. But the question is interesting, yes. The question of why this investment is not taking place in Estonia, whether we do not have such an opportunity, is currently being discussed by a very wide range of specialists.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U96	Dear waitress, there are no further questions for you. I will open negotiations between the representatives of the political groups, in case something has not yet been said. Looks like everything's been cleared up. The proposal of the lead committee is to reject draft 554 at first reading. Despite a number of explanations, however, we are following our basic rule, which is to put this proposal to the vote. Honourable Riigikogu! Before we vote, I will turn to you, esteemed Viktoria Ladynskaya-Kubits. On behalf of my colleagues, I would like to extend my heartfelt condolences to you about the loss of someone very close to you. I now put to the vote to reject the draft proposal of the lead committee at first reading 554. Please take a stand and vote. Ladies and gentlemen, we are likely to have reached a result beyond the news threshold: there were 77 parliamentarians against the proposal, there were no abstentions and there were no votes in favour. The Governing Commission's proposal was not supported. First reading of Bill 554 is complete. Before the final decision, however, Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U97	I have a procedural question. Such a motion of censure on the Committee on Monetary Affairs, which rules of procedure provide, for example, for the management and membership of this committee, what are the consequences?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-06_U98	This could be answered long and hard. I say shorter: Riigikogu board elections are in March, Riigikogu elections are in March a year from now. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 554 amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 20 February. I'll see you tomorrow in this very hall. Have a good day at work! Closure of the sitting at 11.27 a.m.
