ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-11_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. We will begin the Monday session of the 18th working week of the VII plenary session. Transfer of pre-claims and enquiries. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-11_U2	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen! The Social Affairs Committee initiates a draft law amending the Social Welfare Act and the Administrative Cooperation Act. The aim of the amendments is to make the path towards obtaining special care services for people with special psychological needs shorter and clearer for users and also for organisers. Psychiatrists are required to assess the provision of special care support services. This has led in practice to a situation where a person must first contact a psychiatrist in order to receive the necessary help, which can significantly prolong the waiting period before he or she starts receiving the necessary service. The aim is to ensure the provision of needs-based and flexible special care services, and to this end the need for special care services will be assessed and the person consulted at the Social Insurance Board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-11_U3	Thank you. Representative of the Government of the Republic Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-11_U4	Honourable Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching five draft laws today. First, the draft law amending the Penal Code and related amendments to other laws. Secondly, the draft law amending the Law of the State Gazette. Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, represents the Government of the Republic of Estonia when dealing with these two draft laws in the Riigikogu. Thirdly, a draft law amending the Environmental Charges Act and related other laws. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by Siim Kiisler, Minister of the Environment, when the bill is being processed. Fourthly, the draft law amending the Consumer Protection Act. Kadri Simson, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, will represent the Government of the Republic in processing this bill in the Riigikogu. And fifthly, the draft law amending the Government of the Republic Act and other laws. In the Riigikogu, Janek Mäggi, Minister of State Administration, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-11_U5	I have adopted six draft laws and we will continue to process them under the Home and Working Procedures Act. Incoming check, please! 78 members of the Riigikogu are currently present. Adoption of the agenda. Honourable Riigikogu, I vote on the Riigikogu plenary... Ants Laaneots, what now?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-11_U6	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Looking at the draft agenda for this working week of the Riigikogu, I had a question about the processing of the draft law amending the Defence Forces Service Act and other laws 447. The week's agenda is scheduled to be read twice, on Tuesday and Thursday. The Management Board of the Riigikogu has established a document 'Instructions in the Riigikogu to shape good practice in the handling of draft laws'. Point 10 states that several readings of the draft law are generally not planned for the same working week. As a rule, the Board of the Riigikogu has followed it. My question: why are we now breaking the rules of the guidelines and being too hasty if this could result in a poor law? After all, the date of entry into force of the draft is January 2020. Hopefully, the second reading of the draft will be interrupted on Tuesday, which would be in line with item 9 of good practice established by the Riigikogu Board.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-11_U7	Thank you! It was not a proposal on the agenda, it was a question. The Riigikogu Board does not normally allow for second and third readings in one week. This time there was a consensus in the Bureau, to which we were led by the second and third reading of the request made by the Committee on Legal Affairs this week. The alternative would have been for the second reading to have been on its agenda, and then we would have met on Thursday evening for an additional sitting. I think that the majority of the members of the Riigikogu would not have been suitable for this option, so the Board of the Riigikogu made an exception here. But you have a chance to make a suggestion. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-11_U8	I'm sorry, I'd like to clarify why we should have come together Thursday night. Why couldn't it have stayed in the fall?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-11_U9	According to all assumptions, if the draft is to be adopted in the spring, an additional meeting would be organised. Does anyone have any suggestions? Got it. There were no amendments to the agenda, but two procedural questions were put. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the 18th working week agenda of the VII plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. 53 members of the Riigikogu are in favour and against, with 5 abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-11_U10	Inquiries. First of all, an inquiry by Riigikogu members Andres Herkel, Krista Aru, Ain Lutsepp, Külliiki Kübarsepp, Enn Meri, Monika Haukanõm, Artur Talvik and Jüri Adams. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-11_U11	Mr. Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Dear Minister, Of course, when we prepared the question, we did not think that this question would go to Mr Janek Mägg. We began to prepare these questions when the Minister of Public Administration was still Jaak Aab. We have had a very rapid turnover here in a few years at all: from the start of the administrative reform, there are already four ministers of public administration in office. The faction of the Free Party has been very active in this process since the beginning, since the draft law was processed, and has, among other things, made inquiries. The biggest question now is whether and in what way we can start to take stock of what has succeeded in the administrative reform and what has failed and whether the objectives originally set have come to fruition. This is what we are actually starting to ask about the emphasis on these objectives. According to the law, these are also requests: firstly, that local authorities increase their capacity, secondly, that the quality and availability of public services are better ensured, and thirdly, that costs are saved. We understand, of course, that more in-depth analysis is still ahead. At the same time, we are troubled by some of the signs that, even if there is a little bit more talk about other objectives, spending savings have recently been said less and less, until it was not included in the targets. We have also observed a surge in the pay of local government leaders. Indeed, this increase is not 5% and 10%, as is usually the case in the public sector, but here and there are examples where wages have risen by 25% at the same time. These examples are very striking. We do not yet have any reliable data to draw any more conclusions. However, we ordered an overview of the salary levels of the Estonian local government leaders before and after the administrative reform, from the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, Mr Toivo Mängel. This is quite interesting material and, after the debate, we will certainly make it more widely available. There is actually one question behind here that I want to draw attention to before the Minister comes here to answer specific questions. We may not have a final answer, but the question is that the public sector has driven wage growth in Estonia at times. And these have generally not been very good periods when the public sector has started dictating wage increases to the private sector. In the meantime, we got it back under control, but let's look at the data we have from the local governments. Yes, there are fewer municipalities, they are united, and maybe there are fewer people at work, but if we look at these exponential wage increases, there is one question we should be careful about. And that is the question of whether the local government leaders will not turn out to be part of the public sector that is going to dictate the overall wage increase. We have five specific questions in total, and we expect meaningful answers from the Minister. We are certainly prepared to ask further questions and to take stock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-11_U12	Janek Mäggi, Minister of Public Administration, will answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-11_U13	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Free Party Group, thank you, including Andres Herkel, for these remarkable questions that were thoroughly prepared. There is no doubt that I, as well as the administration, have collected and analysed daily information on how local authorities' performance has improved compared to the pre-reform period. Unfortunately, this time has been relatively short, barely six months, and no comprehensive or far-reaching conclusions can be drawn today. Municipalities have been working on preparing and implementing change. We can see that in some municipalities this has happened faster and better, in others it has happened a little slower. One reason certainly is the interpersonal relationship, which, unfortunately, has led to a situation where the integrated solution of administrative reform has succeeded in two thirds or three quarters of places, but perhaps not so much in some places. We need a continuation of the process that will produce the result that we expected when preparing the reform. But now specific questions. I'll read the questions and then I'll give you the answers. 'Do you intend and when, as a minister, to take stock of the key objectives of the administrative reform (increase in capacity and quality of services, savings)? ' The increase in the capacity of local authorities has been one of the main objectives of the administrative reform and the prerequisites for this have been created. Following the administrative reform, municipalities are three to four times larger than before in terms of population. In many small municipalities, it was objectively difficult or impossible to employ all the necessary staff to cover the various areas and to provide sufficient burdens for workers in more specific areas. Studies show that if more than half of all local governments with less than 2 000 inhabitants were such before the administrative reform, the median number of civil servants was 6 then the corresponding figure in local governments with more than 5 000 inhabitants was 22. Preliminary analyses of the compositions of the post-accession municipal and municipal staff show that the number of managers in the 51 municipalities that have joined the reform has decreased by almost a quarter and the number of specialists with support functions has decreased by almost a fifth. Support tasks in this context are, for example, accounting, secretarial work, legal affairs, private office work, etc. At the same time, the total number of specialists providing services directly to the population has increased (e.g. in social work or in hitherto under-completed areas such as administrative management, asset management, construction issues, etc.). In total, in 2018, the number of employees in all rural municipalities and municipal administrations in full-time equivalents has decreased by 7.6% compared to 2017. However, as mentioned earlier, the number of specialists providing services directly to residents has increased. We consider this a very good change. Question 2: 'How is the increase in local authorities' investment capacity measurable? Have you compared the pre-accession and post-accession budgets of local governments in this regard? 'The investment capacity of local authorities can be measured through both the results of the main activity (i.e. the ability to self-finance the current year) and the total investment volume (additional financing through grants, loans, sale of assets, etc.). According to forecasts, the net result of the local government's core business will increase by more than 250 million euros from 2019. In 2017, it amounted to EUR 210 million. For grants for investment, acquisition of fixed assets with VAT or acquisition of fixed assets, local authorities will direct a total of EUR 1.9 billion over the next four years, which is one-and-a-half times more than in 2013‐2017. Question 3: 'How has the use of EU funds in municipal government expenditure (including investments) changed since 2017? ' As a rule, European Union funds cannot be used for investment and the costs of governance must be borne by the municipalities from their own resources. We predict that local authorities will be able to use European Union funds to develop municipal services on average of EUR 100 million per year in the next four years, i.e. 2018,2202, which is also one-and-a-half times more than last year. Question 4: "What are the reasons for the surge in wages of the parish elders and mayors, deputy elders and deputy mayors and the chairs and vice-chairmen of councillors that took place in many municipalities? Why is the wage increase of local government leaders often faster than the wage increase of rescuers, policemen and teachers recognised by the state as a priority? ' Public service wage arrangements are decentralised in Estonia. Pursuant to the Local Government Organisation Act, it is the competence of the municipality or city council to assign remuneration, premium, benefits, grants and benefits to the municipality's or city council members, as well as to the paid parish and city council members. The Council shall also assign remuneration to the Chairman and Vice-Chairperson of the Council. Therefore, the size of the local government payroll fund is not decided by the Government of the Republic of Estonia. However, the wage statistics of local government employees show a different trend than expected in the matter. Teachers' salaries have risen significantly faster in the last ten years than the wages of local government employees in school teachers in 51% and kindergarten teachers in 52%, and local government managers in different levels, depending on local government. The wage growth of local government leaders and officials has remained well below the average wage growth in Estonia in recent years, which has been 48%. I consider it positive that, as a result of the administrative reform, local authorities will also be able to increase the remuneration of managers and officials in order to be in line with developments in average wages. And local government leaders have been able to hire more competent people after the administrative reform. To give concrete examples, this has been quite successful in Saaremaa. And the fifth question: 'To what extent has the share of administrative expenditure and government expenditure in the budgets of the merged municipalities decreased since the administrative reform? On the basis of what factually sound data can you claim that administrative reform has improved the provision of basic services? ' The main objective of the administrative reform is to increase the professional capacity of municipalities to carry out the tasks assigned to them, not to make financial savings. It is to be expected that if the municipality is able to make more efficient use of the money, the surplus generated will be directed towards other necessary activities. At local level, there are enough challenges that have so far been faced with the lack of money, and which now, following administrative reform, can be better addressed. As I have already pointed out, the administrative reform has resulted in a significant reduction in the number of employees involved in the administration of local governments, and services can be organised more efficiently, and this trend continues. The resource available from more efficient activities will be directed towards improving the quality of core activities. At least the end of 2018 should be awaited for the submission of factual data. By this time, local authorities have been able to work in a new form for one full year and more precise conclusions can be drawn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-11_U14	Questions for the Minister. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-11_U15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you for these answers. But I need to be more specific right now, including your claims. If you say that teachers' pay has risen faster, what period of time and compared to whom? This turned out to be a matter of questioning, however, the local government leaders, the elders, the heads of the city, their deputies, the leaders of the councils and the vice presidents, there has been this leap. Whom do we compare with, and during what period? Then we can get that reference point in place. You said that you are analysing every day what has gone well in the case of administrative reform and what has gone badly. You really do have a machine for that. And I understand that local governments raise their own salaries, these are their internal autonomous decisions. However, the question is whether there is also a separate calculation of the rate at which the wage level of local government leaders has risen specifically when comparing the pre-reform and post-reform periods.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-11_U16	Thank you. My data concerned the average of local governments, but of course we could specify how much wages have risen in a particular municipality. Now, with a little more philosophical approach to this question, what really happened? I think what has happened is that the number of drivers has been significantly reduced, and this reduced number of drivers has also led to an additional burden on those drivers who have remained affected their wage expectations. I imagine that this may be one of the main reasons why these salaries have increased in some specific examples, which we all read about from time to time in the newspaper. Secondly, I think that in local governments, the lack of money is still a very important constraint on wage growth. Tallinn is somewhat of an exception here and maybe some of the larger cities. But I've been to smaller places by now and I've seen that it's not possible to pay any mysterious salary there.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-11_U17	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-11_U18	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! You pointed out in your answers that in your opinion, the main objective of the administrative reform is to increase professional capacity. However, the administrative reform, as it was, does not guarantee this. These criteria and principles on the basis of which this reform was carried out mean, in fact, administrative-territorial reform, not content reform, which would provide this professional capacity. I have already asked you this question once, but I have not received a very clear answer: will there be preparations in the ministry for the actual administrative reform that we believe we have said this repeatedly in this Chamber during the various speeches, which would mean reviewing both the funding and the compulsory tasks that the state has written to local authorities?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-11_U19	Thank you. I think that, as we have already spoken in the Commission today, a more precise definition of'state renewal reform' would be one of the most important keys, of course, to administrative reform alongside territorial reform. The country actually did them together, but in both areas, both in terms of territorial and administrative reform, I think there are quite a few places where there are significant shortcomings. The best example may be Kohtla-Järve. When I visited Ida-Virumaa, the city leaders of Kohtla-Järve put a map in front of me to show what pieces this city was made of. These are all separate from each other, there are five different pieces (sometime there were even 11) ♪ that's not normal. On the other hand, it is not normal for us to have inability in local governments, for example, in the field of IT, precisely because cooperation between ourselves is weak. If we look at real estate, for example, it's exactly the same. The vast majority of state-owned real estate is owned by local governments, but it is very difficult to manage. So, in short, the answer to the question is this: yes, we need an administrative overhaul, but not in a few areas, but in a continuous process, where all these places are being reviewed, which are actually a little limping. There are quite a number of places that limp as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-11_U20	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-11_U21	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. At the recent South-East-Estonian Prejudice Festival, one such assessment was that peripheralization has taken place since the administrative-territorial reform. Just after this administrative-territorial reform, there has been, like, two more marginalisations. Please tell me, you who have now been driving along Estonia, whether something has gone wrong, that people rather feel that marginalization has become even worse, or that there is simply a problem of understanding, communication, communication. Have we managed to reduce this very serious problem for Estonia, or has something gone wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-11_U22	Thank you. The short answer would be that I do not think there is such peripheralisation as is seen in Tallinn. At this very South-East Estonian Prejudice Festival, I myself led a debate focusing on teleworking. And these local people, I'm talking not only about the people I was with, but also about those who asked questions, they're not so local at all, they're teleworkers. They find such an opportunity because they want to live in this area. If I look at Ida-Virumaa, Lääne-Virumaa, Hiiumaa or Saaremaa tomorrow I will go to Põlva, then in Estonia as a whole, my emotions are exceptionally positive. Maybe it's weird, but I'll say it like this: I think people living in Tallinn are under a lot more stress than people living in counties. Maybe they're worried about things you don't have to worry about at all. I've also been thinking that in the long run, I'd rather live in the countryside. I have this opportunity, too, but it's a matter of a little age-appropriate life. I think that this amplified understanding that peripheralisation is a very big problem in Estonia is mainly due to the lack of personal ties with the people who live there or with these regions. I suggest you go around and see people living there better than we do here in Tallinn.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-11_U23	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-11_U24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I have a personal connection in at least two counties, so that's fine. But the question is this: is it precisely determined between the state and the municipalities what the functions and responsibilities of the state and the local authorities are? Are these exactly shared by now?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-11_U25	Thank you. There are quite a few laws where these relationships are regulated. I think that there are, of course, problems where local self-governings see that things are not exactly in place, too, and they should be better formulated. But the reason why we have not reached a common understanding in all of these places is that those things that are suitable for one local authority in relations with the state may not be suitable for another. I think that some of the local governments are considerably more powerful I've met the parish leaders in the smaller parishes and listened to their concerns. It is not a question of laws, but it is very often a question of the same people-to-people relationships that we might want to regulate by law, but which may not succeed at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-11_U26	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-11_U27	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! My question is almost a follow-up to the previous question. The Administrative Reform Act states that services should come closer to people, be better quality and more accessible, and municipalities should be more capable. It was only at the beginning of this month that news came out again that municipalities have left several million dollars of money unused, for example, with a label for children with disabilities. Similarly, EUR 30 million has not reached the people, which is intended for local authorities to support older people and general care. It seems to me that it's still like a little cock box between the state and the municipalities. It's like we're giving responsibilities to local governments and sometimes not always giving money, on the other hand, they say they have too many responsibilities and they don't have any money. Maybe there's scissors like this. Do you feel this kind of bullying between you and the government, if you could say so, between the government and the state? And, on the other hand, how can we deal with this situation so people can't suffer?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-11_U28	Thank you. I think that these problems are still being driven by a lack of administration, and I do not know whether the country and the local government can be separated with an excessively large wall. From a human point of view, it is often the same for all kinds of subsidies that there is one country and I get them from the state. For example, if you want to apply for specific support, you need to go there or to the institution. You don't even know that such a thing exists and whether or not you have such support. I have a totally personal family experience here where we thought that it would be so difficult to apply for support that we gave it up. You have to go every month to prove that you don't have an income of more than 140 euros and so on. I think that the right question is that it cannot be seen either in the context of local governments alone or in the context of the state, this requires cooperation between all the providers of public services in Estonia. And when we get to the point that we haven't used up the resources we have, there could always be another side: maybe there was no need. If there was a need, but we did not make use of the money, then the only reason is that people have not been informed enough about the opportunities they have, or that administrative bureaucracy is just so terrible that people do not bother or want to apply for these grants.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-11_U29	Peep Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-11_U30	Thank you. Good minister! First of all, a small observation that my experience shows that local government leaders were raised once in most cases, i.e. after the elections. This means that the current increase in wages after the administrative reform is essentially an increase of wages for eight years, four before, four after, or once in eight years. This is the case in most municipalities and, therefore, these percentages do not seem to be appalling. For other workers, wages are indeed increased by five percentage points and possibly by a lower percentage. But I'm going to go to the question now. For reasons beyond my understanding, the political decision of the Government of the Republic left little Loksa independent. Do you or your good co-workers have any information on how little Loksa can handle it and how the merged municipalities can handle it? What is the comparison, including in whose favor?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-11_U31	Thank you for your question. I wasn't a member of the government when that decision was made. I have, of course, read these recitals in the media and I am aware of it in that sense, but I do not have an accurate overview at the moment. We will send you, good Peep, this answer in writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-11_U32	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-11_U33	Good Janek! It was mentioned here that people in Southern and Central Estonia basically live better than in Tallinn. By the way, that's the way it is. The life of Tallinn has gone down, and it's bad here. However, if we compare GDP per person, then in Põlva and Võru it is four times smaller than in Tallinn. I conclude that the more euro money comes here, the relatively poorer Central and South Estonia will be, because Tallinn will remove it from the cream. How do we get rid of this rift anyway? Is the Republic of Estonia able to get rid of the fact that we actually have two countries: Tallinn and Harjumaa with European standards and the rest of Estonia, where it is good to live, but you have to live very poor?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-11_U34	Thank you, Igor! In my opinion, it is absolutely impossible to eliminate this distinction to the end. I'll explain, too. Take 1,000 euros in Tallinn and 1000 euros in Helsinki, for example. Everyone who has studied the economy a little knows that there is a parity-based approach to purchasing power. The purchasing power of this 1000 euro is very different in Tallinn, Helsinki and Valga. I do not know how to offer specific numbers, but in those regions where some services are cheaper and some costs are lower, for example, 20% or 30% lower incomes. It may be inevitable, it can't be changed to the end. But the quality of life comes into play. People who move back to Estonia from a higher salary than Finland, for example, to this trend we have already perceived, do not do so because they earn more in Estonia. They do it because there's a better quality of life here. And as a patriot of Valgamaa, I think that in the future, the quality of life of Valgamaa will certainly be one of the best in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-11_U35	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-11_U36	Thank you, Chairman. Good minister! The quality of life could be debated, and that would be a great argument. However, when this law on administrative reform was made, there was talk about, among other things, the cost savings of the state, i.e. the state reform, also in terms of costs. Halfway down the road, they forgot about it. If I listen to questions here today, it seems to me that costs have not been saved and the quality of service has not increased with some examples either. Do you have examples to the contrary where the quality of the service has already improved exponentially and where there is sound management in terms of savings?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-11_U37	Thank you. I don't want to hurt other counties at all, especially those I haven't visited yet, but I just came from Saaremaa, and I went there on Friday, where both numerical figures and what I saw on the spot were impressive. I think they have managed to create a local government that works well or very well on external observation and numbers. They certainly set an example for others. We can argue somewhat about whether we want to achieve an economic or emotional effect. And I stress in my reply that the emotional effect is also very important to us. In business, it is often very important that everything is cost-effective or efficient. For example, there is no point in putting any paintings on the wall. Why? It's an extra cost. Let's put on some kind of disco, and that'll do. But if you go to someone's house, you'll see that a man has a country and a country. It's all completely irrational, actually. Maybe he doesn't even have enough money to go somewhere to rest, but he doesn't sell these paintings. They have emotional value. I think that this administrative reform must continue in such a way that these emotional values, which are important for Estonia as a whole and for the local population, are much more prominent.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-11_U38	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-11_U39	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. You said that a number of objectives remained unresolved with this reform, which I believe is purely an administrative-territorial reform, not a substantive one. The three most important aspects remained unsolved this time: setting up the tasks of local authorities, financing them and increasing decision-making. From your point of view, what are the bottlenecks that you mentioned earlier that still need to be resolved?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-11_U40	Thank you. I think that the current results must, of course, be analysed. It is clear that there are bottlenecks in the media and in communicating with people. But they should be systematised and seen what can be improved during the process. I think that the fact that we are doing one administrative reform for 20 to 25 years is completely inadequate. This process should go on all the time, we should always try to make something better. When we see that the doorstep has fallen off somewhere, we should put it back. The message of the reform is more that we are making some kind of change, which is in some sense final, but the point of the update is that the process is ongoing, we want to make something better all the time, we want to see that you see these curtains need to be washed, etc. But what do I personally want to happen to local authorities over a period of five or ten years or longer? I would like them to provide precisely the services that the particular community needs and wants most on the ground. I think we could go like the United States, where one state and another state have some different laws. I don't think we could have different laws in the counties, but the rules might be different. For example, some things are done in Valgamaa because it is useful for them, other things in Ida-Virumaa and third things in Järvamaa. If you look specifically at one of the problems of Ida-Viru, which is very different from the others, it is that even if you build a brand new house there, it doesn't cost anything at all, it doesn't have a market value. We have a wide range of problems that cannot be solved centrally. There is no same problem in Pärnu, for example. So I think we should also focus on giving more freedom to local authorities so that we can take greater account of the specific problems faced by local authorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-11_U41	Enn Meri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-11_U42	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I come from Saaremaa, and I have a fresh picture of how things are there. I also spent a few months in the Vallavoli Council of Saaremaa. Of course I think this Saaremaa parish is the right thing, it's a success. But the way I remember it is that the number of posts and salary costs did not decrease in the spring compared to the old organisation. Where did your numbers come from?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-11_U43	No, I said I didn't have any specific numbers, but I got emotional. They brought me specific facts there when I was communicating with people, but I don't remember them all by heart, and I don't want to offer them out of the blue. But both the analysis of the Ministry of Finance and the communication with people gave me the feeling that if specifically asked if anyone could be highlighted, I think it could be Saaremaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-11_U44	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-11_U45	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. Even before you took office, there have been several statements in this Chamber that we should not apply the remigration authority to work. Of course, I do not mean any additional government facility. It could be on the basis of existing ministries, where we would have specific people, officials, who would be responsible for identifying what the conditions and opportunities would be, so that we could bring back our good young people and their families.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-11_U46	Thank you. Personally, I believe that people must be given maximum freedom to come, go, go, be and return. I myself have this experience when I worked at SEB in the late 1990s, the then Estonian Ühispank. All boys my age, 20 to 25 years old, then dreamed of going to London to work, which many succeeded. No one wanted to go to work in Finland, that was not enough. So many went to London and some went to New York. I don't name names, but how many well-known people have come back to the rafters. I think there's such a thing as age-appropriate life. We may think too much sometimes when someone goes to work and says I don't know if I'm coming back at all, so what happens then? Finally, he is back home and wants to put his children in an Estonian-language school. I don't know if emigration and return are such a big problem. For example, yesterday I hosted Erik Hoffmann in my summer home, whose grandfather was a Dog Pastor for 40 years. We met him in Argentina. He's German, but he's Estonian. We discussed this subject with him and he said that this draft of roots, why he has been here many times now, even though he was born in Argentina, is very strong. I do not believe very much in the complete absence of those born in Estonia. But even if some go and stay in Argentina, none of this will happen again. So I don't think we can handle this population process violently. I have this feeling.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-11_U47	Thank you, Minister Janek Mäggi! The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-11_U48	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister for their answers. I think there are many problems here that are open and on which the government would still like a clearer view and clearer views. This certainly concerns funding and the division of responsibilities that we talked about when we were doing the administrative reform law here quite at the beginning of this membership a few years ago. We have no answers to that. We would also like to have a clear understanding of the increase in the capacity of local authorities and the quality of services, if there is such an increase, whether it is evenly distributed, i.e. whether this growth is both in centres and in those regions we are used to calling peripheral countries. There is another subject which, true enough, was not mentioned in the question of understanding itself, but what is important. In fact, this whole project of state buildings, so that it does not simply become a project for new boxes and real estate, but is substantive. Janek Mäggi also made one such claim that the number of leaders has fallen, and why here raise the problem when the wages of new leaders have risen exponentially. There is, in fact, one more thing that was not brought to attention during this discussion. This is because many of the former local government leaders received the so-called golden handshake and proper compensation and, after that, quickly found some new position in the merging structure. So it's still a matter of its own. I would like to say to Mr Peep Aru that the elections, however, are not every eight years, but every four years. And if we put all these rather steep increases in wages on the time scale, then we have to add that most of the efforts have been made to raise the pay of local government leaders even when there is a change of power on the ground. Unfortunately, we have more of these shifts of power than the elections. Now I'm going to turn out to be this data set we ordered 'Overview of the pay levels of local government leaders before and after the administrative reform'. It is not comprehensive, we took on some of the municipalities, but it is quite illustrative when you start looking at it in the middle of the rudder. For example, in Tartu, the mayor's salary jumped from 3300 euros to 4500 euros and from 3000 to 4000 euros in Kohtla-Järve. In the case of Kohtla-Järve, it is particularly noteworthy that the Chairman of the Council also receives a similar salary of EUR 4000, which was not at all before. One example that often arises here is that the fees of the governors of the councils and also of the vice-chairmen have risen to such heights where they have not been in Estonia before. Similar examples include Haapsalu, Viljandi and other municipalities. So this is going to be a pretty interesting table. If we try to generalise, the first thing that really stands out is quite numerous and quite steep increases in wages of 25% and even more. Likewise, as I pointed out, it concerns not only the elders, the city leaders and their deputies, but also the leaders of the councils. And what else stands out? Quite often, these increases are justified by the fact that we now have a larger municipality, including a greater responsibility, it has kind of gone to the justification of the salary increase. If you look at it, it appears that these increases often also affect those municipalities where there has been no merger, even in their case, exactly the same trends. Apart from Mr President-in-Office, I do not see any Social Democrats in this Chamber, but one subject that has always been close to your heart is the gender pay gap. By the way, it's coming out here, too. As we begin to study, the data we have taken out shows that the gross wage of male parish elders is 176 euros higher than the salary of female parish managers. So this trend is getting worse, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-11_U49	I'm sorry! The members of the Riigikogu have no more wish to negotiate. Is there anything else the Minister wants to say? No, I don't. I will close this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-11_U50	Next is the inquiry by Krista Aru, Andres Herkel, Enn Meri, Monika Haukanõm, Külliki Kübarsepp, Jüri Adams and Artur Talvik. On behalf of the heirs, Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-11_U51	Mr. Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good people's representatives! Minister, thank you very much. Unlike the previous inquiry, which raised new questions and showed the need for a large summary, analysis, including perhaps the need to think about Estonia as a whole, also taking into account the peculiarities of the localities, this is an inquiry submitted by seven members of the Free Party Group, in which there are four very specific questions, driven by an excellent idea. With this, the previous Minister of Finance of the Government Coalition stood before the Riigikogu, who very emotionally explained to us how important and good the business account, or simplified taxation of business income, is. Despite the fact that we also raised the question on several occasions in this Chamber of Riigikogu whether and to what extent banks are prepared to launch such an entrepreneurial account, to deal with it at all, and whether and to what extent our small businesses still need an entrepreneurial account, how much demand there is for it, the then Minister of Finance was firmly convinced that this was the best and most innovative solution that the government would come to the aid of small business. A year ago, the law was passed, and I remember very precisely how the Minister of Finance, at that time, confirmed that by June we will get the first summaries of how well the business account has started, what it has added to our small business in the broadest sense. Unfortunately now, a year later, we will probably not be able to listen to any summary or analysis, but we will have to ask why the government made unprotected promises. Why was there a proposal that had not been the subject of any preparatory work? Why were people allowed to do that? After all, more enterprising people started organising exercises, bringing small entrepreneurs up to speed. I mean, babysitters who were really looking forward to it, but also the hairdressers were willing to try it, try it. So it's embarrassing. And there is no other way to overcome this embarrassment than to clearly admit that the government has failed to do work on certain things. We have deceived people, deceiving their expectations and hopes. Here come our four questions. What's the status today? Where are the problems? I hope that the current Minister of Finance will be as enthusiastic about this business account as the previous Minister of Finance was, and will come and answer our four specific questions, reading them themselves for clarity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-11_U52	The question must be answered by the Minister of Finance, Toomas Tõnistel. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-11_U53	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! If my predecessor found that an entrepreneurial account is an important and very good thing, then I agree. You submitted an inquiry on 17 May, where you were interested in launching a business account to cut red tape. I'm going to answer those questions in line. The first question: 'The provision states that a credit institution may enter into a contract with a natural person on the holding of a business account under the conditions laid down in the simplified taxation of business income Act. It might, but it doesn't. Consequently, if the banks are not interested, this account cannot be opened. Only LHV Pank is known to have prepared. Has any other banks shown interest? What is the justification for the banks' unwillingness to deal with the matter, and why was it kept quiet? 'A business account, like most other statutory banking services, is indeed regulated by law in such a way that banks have the possibility to provide this type of account, but there is no obligation to do so. This approach is based on the principle of free competition. The alternative would be to give a special right to offer this type of account to a bank that should be selected by means of a competitive procedure. As the situation is in practice that one bank, LHV Pank, has announced this type of account publicly this year, the business account service is expected to become available on the market and there is, however, no special regulation to introduce it on the market. The legal possibility to offer the business account service arose at the beginning of this year. Of course, it would have been good if a bank had immediately brought this service to the market, as the feedback received on the draft showed that there were small businesses interested in it. A number of proposals were also received during the drafting process. The reasons why this service has not reached the market more quickly relate on the one hand to the time and financial costs involved in developing IT solutions, on the other hand, it is also a question of forecasting demand and commercial profitability for the new service. Banks also have IT developments planned in advance for a long time. In the case of major regulatory changes, which have been quite numerous over the past year (e.g. the entry into force of MiFID II), development work is being carried out as a matter of priority, which is indispensable for complying with the requirements of the law. Only LHV Pank showed a particular interest in offering business accounts during the processing of the draft law on simplified taxation of business income and the Ministry of Finance pointed out that the service might not be able to reach the market as soon as the law entered into force. However, this does not mean that it would have been reasonable to postpone the adoption or enforcement of the law. The Act on simplified taxation of business income fixed in the same way for all the conditions to be met for the provision of an entrepreneur account and created the primary prerequisite for placing this service on the market. Only a private initiative could not develop such a service, as it is a special tax scheme which must be governed by law. The second question: 'Why were the necessary preparations for opening an entrepreneur account not made in time at the Tax and Customs Board, i.e. in the second half of last year? How far is the development needed to open an entrepreneur account in May 2018? ' These developments need to be carried out in parallel, and so have been done. Without bank development, the tax authorities will not be able to keep accounts for the business account and vice versa, as IT solutions will have to be compatible. According to current information, there is hope that the business account service will start at the end of this year. The Estonian Tax and Customs Board started preparations for the business account already in the second half of last year. The work has been carried out at the same time as LHV developments and in cooperation with LHV. This does not mean that the interest of any of the following banks should start at zero. EAMT develops a universal solution that can also be used by other credit institutions. The third question: 'Who is responsible for knowingly and blatantly deceiving people, i.e. allowing a new and unprecedented form of entrepreneurship, an entrepreneurial account, but in fact not sufficiently prepared? ' The implementation of the business account required, first of all, the creation of a legal basis, which was adopted by the Riigikogu a year ago. The provision of accounts by credit institutions requires quite extensive cooperation between the state and the private sector and has not been deliberately stretched or deceived. The operation of the business account requires the automatic exchange of information between the credit institution and the EAMT to create two X-Road services. The first concerns the opening and closing of an account, the second concerns entries and tax accounts. In addition to calculating the tax liability, these data are also necessary for the Estonian Health Insurance Fund, the Social Insurance Board and the Estonian Central Register of Securities to establish social security guarantees. Question 4: "Did a situation where promises were made that could not be fulfilled have been assessed by the government, or has it simply been silenced by embarrassment? ' I think it would be embarrassing if the state did not try to make its services easier for people and did not undertake such ambitious projects at all. The opposition, of course, has the right to criticise the government. The fact is, however, that no party has proposed any own solution to facilitate the taxation of micro-enterprises, which would be better or quicker to implement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-11_U54	Questions for the Minister. Enn Meri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-11_U55	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. After all, only income is included in the business account. That means that something's paid in and something's taken off, and that's the end of it. But how about doing it a little differently to cover the costs, i.e. that account could also pay the costs? Wouldn't that have been a more reasonable and fairer option to you?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-11_U56	Thank you. I'd wait for the customers to start using this service. When this draft was drawn up, as I said before, there were a lot of proposals from businesses, including micro-enterprises, who will use this service. Together, the best option and the best possible non-bureaucratic approach were found. Yes, there are really no costs taken into account, but by that the tax they charge is 20% lower than it would otherwise be. This is a simple compromise, which, according to my information, quite a few small businesses really expect.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-11_U57	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-11_U58	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you for your answers. My question is very specific. You have indeed rightly mentioned to us it is also known that at present only LHV Pank is preparing banks and is interested in the matter. Can you tell me how far these preparations are and when it is hoped that this business account, on which we have already expected summaries today, as the previous Minister of Finance promised, will actually start? And when can we expect the summaries for the first time?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-11_U59	Thank you. Unfortunately, I really can't give you any summaries here. I believe that even at the time such an opportunity was created, the business account was regularised, it was not taken into account that credit institutions were not coming immediately. Of these reasons, I spoke a little bit about why credit institutions were unable to come with so much speed that they are preparing IT solutions and developments for a long time and they are being prepared in parallel with the Tax and Customs Board. I have such information from the Tax and Customs Board that cooperation with the LHV is ongoing, and I very much hope that there will be such an opportunity from November thanks to the LHV. But as a minister, I really can't force credit institutions to do that.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-11_U60	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-11_U61	Thank you, good minister, for your answers. I still find it somewhat incomprehensible why Estonia, which has the image of an e-state in the eyes of foreign countries, is so slow in terms of its e-developments. Of course, I consider it reasonable that both the state and private operators cooperate on different solutions. But who here is the brake that does not come along with these developments, it is the side of private business or the ministry? Or is it that there is a very clear lack of responsibility in our country for the development of e-services? I know there is a corresponding Deputy Secretary-General in MKM, but he is still preparing the trees of the services that are offered in Estonia as an e-country, and we do not even have such an overview. What is your substantive analysis of one of the most important leading figures of the super Ministry, where are the e-developments of the Estonian state going?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-11_U62	Thank you. The question got wider. I don't think it's always worth looking for the culprit to crucify an official or some politician. The legal basis for such a service was established in the Riigikogu and is now legalised. I really hope that IT developments will catch up, but credit institutions must also be willing to do so. When we talk about IT solutions in a wider sense, an inadequate financial cover has certainly been an obstacle here. And when we look at the labour market, there is actually a strong demand for IT services, whether in the private sector or in the public sector. You may have a wish, and you may even have money, but you can't get an IT solution as fast as you'd expect. Maybe it'll take a while longer than you could see in a bad dream. Here's the situation right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-11_U63	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-11_U64	Good Chairman! Good minister! You were talking about ambition. I would say that there is little ambition in this project. Even when this bill came to the Riigikogu, we talked about why the amount that can be used for this account per year is so small. Secondly, this is also what Enn Meri said at the moment, why this business account cannot be costed. And third, what did you find out? Before you go on such an ambitious project, as you said yourself, all IT opportunities will be explored. Why were these IT options not studied until this draft came forward, and why were other solutions not used?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-11_U65	Thank you. I have tried to say before that I think that you have adopted a very good law here in the Riigikogu, a business account is a very good thing. IT developments are not only behind money, but there is another side: credit institutions must also be interested, they must have time. They will certainly also look at profitability, i.e. how many people might be interested. It's kind of a broader package. Speaking of ambition, I would expect the Free Party to fulfil its promise in March 2016. In the spring of this year, he promised to introduce his proposal for a completely new tax system, which was said to be not fine-tuning, but even surgical intervention. There you will really have the opportunity to bring out your good suggestions, which are always welcome.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-11_U66	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-11_U67	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister, thank you for your answers. In answering our last question, you criticised the opposition's lack of proposals or initiatives here either. Of course, it is the task of the opposition to criticise. But your task in the government is certainly to give a push to the drafts you have initiated, or to the laws, if they don't go the way they should. My question is this: what have you done specifically to ensure that business accounts are implemented by now, and we could have taken stock today rather than ask why this has not got anywhere?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-11_U68	Thank you. What we can do here is communicate with credit institutions and remind them that such an opportunity has been created. Personally, I think that since it was evident during the procedure of the draft that there were not one or two more interested parties, the banks might have an interest in attracting these customers to themselves, being the first bank to offer such an opportunity. I think it adds value to the bank. I guess that's the hope of the bill being processed here, and so he's gone. We are now able to offer cooperation and parallel IT solutions from the Tax and Customs Board to remove obstacles as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-11_U69	I'm sorry! Thank you, Minister. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of Krista Aru's heirs, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-11_U70	Mr. Chairman of the Riigikogu! Thank you, Minister. Dear Companions from the Estonian Free Party Group and two MPs, one from the Central Party Group and one from the Estonian Conservative People's Party Group! And the Chairman of the Riigikogu represents the Social Democrats. We have a very diverse composition here now, so we can discuss such an important issue as the business account to be created for micro-enterprises, or rather the question of why it is not yet there. We certainly do not want to refer the arrow of criticism to the Minister for Finance as heirs. Rather, I would like to thank the Minister for his answers, in which he tried, in particular, to describe and justify why there is still no business account, which he very much praised as a promising opportunity. In my opinion, this whole story reveals the tragedy of our regime. All these shortcomings, which were also very clear from the Minister's replies, are the result of our weak preparatory work. Even in the case of this bill, which could have been the success of micro-business, a truly commendable innovative step in organising the whole of small business, there was no preparatory work. The analyses had not been carried out, and the impact of this was not properly determined, on how many companies are involved, whether credit institutions are prepared for what they need, etc. It's not a great science of stars, it's basic things you missed. And that's what you have to say. Unfortunately, this is not the only draft law for which impact analysis has not been properly analysed at all. As a small country, we waste energy, time and money. I would very much like to hope that with all the legislative proposals that will still come here in the future, this pattern, which we see most vividly, will not be repeated in this particular business account or simplified taxation. Perhaps there is an even greater reason for all of this. We do not currently have the same IT-area tree in the country that Külliki Kübarsepp called here. We do not have the tree that would allow us to see solutions to the business account in the IT domain, but we do not have information on the need for investments that link entrepreneurship and science. On the one hand, we do not have a big picture, on the other, an impact analysis and a clear look to the future. The Minister said that there has been no deliberate delay or obstruction here, and I really believe that, but because of the lack of preliminary work, people have been deceived. And we can't deny it. It would have been possible for us to say from the outset that it is now really regulated by law, that there will be an opportunity, but the start-up will be in a year or a year and a half after the credit institutions and the Tax and Customs Board have made all the preparations. This is, in my opinion, a serious lesson, a serious place of learning, because it is an even greater crime to keep the people of our country waiting and to make promises than to make promises to the whole world about things that we cannot fulfil. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-11_U71	Members of the Riigikogu do not wish to negotiate any more; the Minister does not wish to say anything. The debate on this item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-11_U72	Free mike. March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-11_U73	Honourable President-in-Office! Honourable colleagues! On the 31st of the last month, one of the doctors in Valga Hospital's maternity department became ill, and on 31 May 2018, Valga Hospital's head, Marek Seer, said that Valga would no longer accept births. At the same time, the University of Tartu Hospital had taken the decision that from 1 July Valga Hospital's maternity department would be closed. The reason why births are not accepted on 1 May was that there is no specialist, a professional, a doctor who is able to do so, and that it is not possible to replace them. That was a lie. Marek Seer lied to both the media and his superiors. There were replacements. Where was I going? At the end of the week, Valga had a very difficult situation: a young woman had an extraordinary birth. After all, Valga does not have so-called specialists. However, the birth was successfully accepted: the child was born, the mother and the child were healthy and in good health and happiness. Now let's put a conclusion here and ask you this. Marek Seer claims that obstetrics will be carried out using an ambulance in the sense that the ambulance will take the deliverer from Valga to Tartu. This birth could not have been with a happy ending if it had been accepted in an ambulance and Valgas had not been able to solve the situation. I want to ask you now. As a reason for the closure, many officials, advisers and politicians brought such things as those who take responsibility if anything happens, as the lyrics say. Now, the story is that Valga did her job and did it very well, but at the same time the media blackmails and calls out that Valga doesn't have enough competence. There's a competence. Who's responsible for this now? It's funny with that responsibility. Urmas Glass says Põlva maternity home stays. Why? Urmas Klaas got all his votes in Põlva. In Valga county, the municipality government and the municipal council voted unanimously, or consensually, that the maternity department had to remain in Valga, but there were few of these votes. I mean, Glass put Valga's obstetrics on the closing date of July 1st. So, what happens now? Do we have political medical care, or is it accessible to everyone? Do we have public health care or private medical care? At the same time, an interesting offer was made to the University of Tartu Hospital: Valga County Government wants to buy 51% of the participation from the state, i.e. the JRC, or sells its 49% because people do not have the right to decide their own affairs in the county. The answer is very, very, very simple. I mean, there's no private money, there's public money. How do we solve this problem now? Who is responsible for what might happen? Who will take responsibility for this? This woman's speech last night in the "Actual Camera" was absolutely correct, if Valga Hospital had not been in the maternity department, she or her child would not have survived. Very cruel examples, but so he is. Dear decision-makers, this is not a game! And what the minister said earlier was that people in the outskirts of the country live better than in Tallinn is partly right. But living on the outskirts becomes more dangerous and dangerous every day because there are no services there. There is other nature, fresh air, ozone, absolutely everything the heart wants, but if you need a service suddenly and quickly, you have nowhere to take it. As our main, great-great-great opponent and fellow fighter Ligi here said: live in the periphery and live in Valga's maternity home! Thank you. You're good women, you're doing a good job. Power and strength for you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-11_U74	Today's trial is over. I'll see you tomorrow. Closure of the sitting at 4.30 p.m.
