ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-11_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I understand there's a lot of anxiety in the hall because it's a Thursday day, but please have some peace. We will begin the 4th working week Thursday session of the VIIIth plenary session of the Riigikogu. Transfer of pre-claims and enquiries. There are no drafts or requests for information to be handed over today. We're going to the presence check. Checking for presence. 78 members of the Riigikogu are present, 23 are missing. Today we have two draft decisions on the agenda. I will briefly introduce you to the procedure. The presentation of the representative of the Governing Commission shall take up to 20 minutes. Each member of the Riigikogu has one oral question and only the representatives of the political groups can participate in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-11_U2	Let's go to the first item on the agenda. First reading of Riigikogu's decision of the Riigikogu to amend the 'Constitution of the Estonian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe', submitted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. For a presentation, please speak to Barbi Pilvre, member of the Foreign Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-11_U3	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Foreign Affairs submitted an amendment to the Riigikogu decision 'Construction of the Estonian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe', including on 18 September. No amendments were tabled by the deadline set by the Riigikogu's Management Board for the submission of amendments by 21 September. At its meeting on 24 September the Committee on Foreign Affairs took the following procedural decisions on the draft: First of all, to propose to the Riigikogu Board that a draft 690 be sent to the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday, 11 October. Secondly, the proposal of the Committee on Foreign Affairs is for the final vote on the draft and for the draft to be adopted as a decision. I was appointed rapporteur. The composition of the Estonian ENPA delegation after the decision was taken is as follows: Head of Delegation Marianne Mikko, members Urve Tiidus and Tiit Terik, alternate members Raivo Aeg, Andres Herkel and Jaak Madison. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-11_U4	Good waitress, no questions for you. I will open negotiations with representatives of the political groups. I am closing the negotiations because no one wants to participate in the negotiations. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on draft 690. Let's start preparing the vote. I shall put draft decision No 690 to the vote. Please take a stand and vote. 71 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of the draft decision, no one opposed, no abstentions, 8 members of the Riigikogu did not participate. The decision has been taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-11_U5	Let's go to agenda item 2. Amendment of the Riigikogu decision "Constitution of the Estonian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe' submitted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs' draft 691 first reading. Maire Aunaste, member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-11_U6	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Since we have just voted as an alternate member of the delegation of the Urve Tiidus ENPA, draft 691 must appoint a new member from the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe. At the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, including on 17 September, the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly discussed changes to the composition of the Estonian delegation on the basis of a proposal from the Estonian Reform Party Group. It is proposed that Mati Raidma be appointed an alternate member of the delegation instead of Urve Tiidus. The Committee on Foreign Affairs decided to support the proposal submitted by the Reform Party Group and to submit a draft decision of the Riigikogu to amend the composition of the Estonian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe on 18 September inclusive. No amendments were tabled by the deadline set by the Riigikogu's Management Board for the submission of amendments by 21 September. At its meeting on 24 September the Committee on Foreign Affairs took the following procedural decisions on the draft: First, to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the draft 691 plenary session of the Riigikogu be placed on the agenda of the sitting on Thursday 11 October. Secondly, the proposal of the Committee on Foreign Affairs is for the final vote on the draft and for the draft to be adopted as a decision. If Mati Raidma gets our votes now, then the composition of the OSCE Estonian delegation after the decision is taken will be as follows: Head of Delegation Mart Nutt, members Külmiki Kübarsepp and Toomas Vitsut, alternate members Uno Kaskpeit, Jaanus Marrand and Mati Raidma. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-11_U7	Dear Maire Aunaste, there are no questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. I'm closing the negotiations. As the proposal of the commission is for a final vote on draft 691, we will begin the preparation of the final vote. Can we go to the final vote? [[???Hääl saalist: 'Jaa!'???]] Okay. I shall put draft 691 to the vote. Please take a stand and vote. 69 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of the draft decision, there was no one against, no abstentions, no participation in the 10th Riigikogu. The decision has been taken. That concludes today's Thursday session of the Riigikogu. Thank you all and the strength to work! Closure of the sitting at 10.09 a.m.
