ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-23_U1	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu. We will start the 3rd working week Tuesday session of the 7th plenary session. In order for us to have a follow-up tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, it is now the best time to pass on enquiries and draft laws. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-23_U2	Mr President of the sitting! Honourable representatives of the people! In order for us to continue to have work and the opportunity to discuss important issues in the country in the coming weeks, I will, on behalf of the seven members of the Free Party Group, refer an inquiry to the Minister for Public Administration, Jaak Aab. There are five questions in the inquiry, and all of them concern the draft amendment to the law on the use of funds from privatisation. In fact, there is a need to change the use of the money from privatisation. This is also well-founded in the draft law: there are many empty apartments and old houses in the hands of the state, and this money could be used to dismantle these old and very dangerous buildings, but also to cover the other costs of the state. Our questions mainly concern the proposal made by the Estonian Owners' Confederation and the Estonian Heritage Society to amend this bill. It was proposed that this money could also be used to restore cultural and building monuments, including farm restoration. As we know, farm culture in Estonia is not only a characteristic heritage of our past, it is also very important today. We want to find out with our five questions what happened to this proposal. It was done, it was accounted for, but at the last moment, the thought disappeared. Where did it go?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-23_U3	As Chair of the sitting, I have adopted one inquiry. The Management Board of the Riigikogu processes this in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act. Please, let's do the presence check! 79 delegates will take part in the meeting.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-23_U4	Today's first item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Financial Management Act of the Local Government Unit, which was initiated by the Special Committee on State Budget Control. Any requests? If it is, I'll open negotiations. That's not what you want. The commission's proposal is for the final vote on the draft 525 and we will do so immediately. I am voting on the draft Act amending the Law on the Financial Management of the Local Government Unit, as initiated by the Special Committee on State Budget Control, 525. Please take a stand and vote. Eighty members of the population voted in favour of the draft, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The law has been passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-23_U5	The second item is the first reading of the draft decree of the Riigikogu's'Transport Development Plan 2014 to 2020' presented by the Government of the Republic. Mr Kadri Samson, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, would you like to present the chair?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-23_U6	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am before you to introduce the change in the transport development plan. This development plan, which is currently in force, has been drawn up for the years 2014 to 2020 and was adopted by the Riigikogu by decision on 19 February 2014. There is now a proposal to amend the wording of the sub-heading 7.1 of Action 7 in this transport development plan, which is still in force until 2020. This sub-chapter concerns waterways and ports. The first sentence of the second paragraph is amended and worded as follows: 'The state maintains the majority shareholding in AS Tallinna Sadam to ensure open and transparent access to Estonian freight corridors for all carriers. ' This is how it is desired to change the provisions of the transport development plan that the Port of Tallinn of AS belongs 100% to the state, i.e. the state's participation is 100%. The amendment is necessary in order to be able to implement the agreement that the minority holding of AS Tallinna Sadam will be placed on the stock exchange. Since the state has two thirds of the Port of Tallinn, it is correct to maintain the'majority participation' in the wording. It is also proposed that, since the transport development plan is only valid until 2020 and the new development plan is already under development, it is expected that the new development plan of the Riigikogu will be discussed and adopted by the Riigikogu in 2019-2020, proposals for changes in the field of transport are already expected in connection with the new development plan. There is no point in opening an old document on a wider scale than this is a necessary change. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-23_U7	Let's open a round of questions. Arto Aas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-23_U8	Thank you. Dear Minister, Bringing the Port of Tallinn to the stock market is certainly a sensible decision, hopefully this process will be transparent and successful. I ask you that your former or future party partner, the assistant mayor of Tallinn Riisalu, has come up with the idea that the city of Tallinn could buy a minority shareholding or some part of Tallinn Harbour. This seems incredibly unreasonable: why move public-owned property from one pocket to another and spend Tallinn's taxpayers' money on it? After all, agreements for the rational development of the port area could be made differently. What is your position: should a municipal government really buy this participation in this privatisation process?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-23_U9	Of course, agreements for the development of a reasonable port area can and will be made. As regards participation in IPO, the City of Tallinn has the right to participate in IPO under the same conditions as all other institutional investors.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-23_U10	Aivar Sõerd.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-23_U11	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, The explanatory memorandum to the draft law states that the financial amount of the proceeds from the public tender of the port's shareholding is not known. I understand that because the structure of the emissions has not yet been developed. But can we discuss this? And does the Riigikogu have the right to know which orders of magnitude we are talking about? If I am suggesting that the 33% of this value could be in the order of EUR 200 to 300 million, am I very seriously mistaken?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-23_U12	Please state what is a very serious mistake. These are the ratings of the questioner and the respondent. As far as revenue is concerned, the revenue from the IPO of the Port of Tallinn will indeed be allocated to the state budget. Final decisions regarding the use of money are made by the Riigikogu during the annual state budget procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-23_U13	Thomas Stone Mountain.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-23_U14	Thank you, Mr President. Very honourable Minister! As the title of the draft is 'amendment of the'Transport Development Plan 2014 to 2020', I ask which state-owned companies are still planning to privatise or place their shares on the stock market in the next two to three years. Do these ideas also require changes to the transport development plan, or are they already in line with the development plan that we are talking about today?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-23_U15	The analysis is currently underway, the final decisions have not yet been made, also for AS Eesti Teed, who entered the open market last year. Since there is no final decision, I cannot tell you what the future of the Estonian Roads will be. I mean, selling a public limited company.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-23_U16	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-23_U17	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! You said that the revenue would go to the state budget, which, in the context of this year's budget, means that it would go to cover current expenditure. The Port of Tallinn is certainly a very successful company. Do you not find it unreasonable to channel this money now that the budget is in deficit to cover running costs?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-23_U18	The explanatory memorandum to this year's draft State Budget Act provides a forecast of the dividends of the Port of Tallinn. If you want a more technical wording, I say that the money from the sale of new shares issued by the Port of Tallinn will be included in the equity capital of the Port of Tallinn and the funds will be financed by an extraordinary dividend. This exceptional dividend will be paid to the State as the sole shareholder. The dividend payment payable shall be directed to the liquidity reserve of the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-23_U19	Raivo Põldaru.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-23_U20	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! Has it not occurred to the government that the Port of Tallinn could still be an important strategic object for the state? The sale of a relatively large part of its shares does not know whose hands may pose a certain threat to the Estonian state.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-23_U21	The government has said that the Port of Tallinn is an important strategic object. The majority of the shares therefore remain with the State. At the same time, the IPO of the Port of Tallinn gives us the opportunity to increase the value of the company. In the case of a stock exchange, there is also a greater transparency and clarity of management. These are the main arguments. The argument is also that with this step we are reviving the stock market and creating a very secure dividend share, which I hope will also be invested in by pension funds that collect money from the pension pillars of Estonian people.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-23_U22	Sven Sester.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-23_U23	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I think this is the first important step in bringing the Port of Tallinn to the stock market. Changes relating to state assets must also be made to the State Property Act. This step today is very sensible, but perhaps you will take the opportunity to say in a few words how this technical process related to Tallinn Port will now proceed. I understand that during the first half of the year, the government really wants to make it to the stock market. How far is it now?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-23_U24	The Port of Tallinn has chosen a financial advisor and legal advisor. There is also a known bank syndicate that conducts IPO. A clearer prospectus will come up in the coming months. The exchange is subject to clear rules and any early speculation on possible value is inappropriate. More specifically, the pace of progress is such that the issue of shares is planned in the first half of the year. Before that, however, the harbour and the syndicate of the banks carrying out the IPO will naturally come out with a detailed IPO prospectus.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-23_U25	Arto Aas, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-23_U26	Thank you. On my first question, I actually asked for your personal opinion on whether the city of Tallinn should now purchase shares from the stock exchange at Tallinn Harbour. I know it's possible, technically, that everything is possible. The question is whether this is a reasonable use of taxpayers' money and why it is necessary. Therefore, I ask you again: do you personally think that the port area could be developed in any way in tripartite cooperation with the City Government, the Port of Tallinn and the State? Or should the city of Tallinn, I don't know, take out a loan, issue some bonds to buy a piece of Tallinn Harbour from the state? It seems very unreasonable to me. I look forward to your personal position as minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-23_U27	You are trying to bring Tallinn City Council topics into the game, but this is another hall where you are probably going to discuss Tallinn City topics. I am not the taxpayer of Tallinn, my personal views as a taxpayer concern the city of Pärnu. However, I can personally confirm that cooperation between the Port of Tallinn and the City of Tallinn is good. This must also be done to enable the development of the Old Port to be planned. The 100% state-owned Port of Tallinn is currently doing this in a very responsible manner. The development of the old harbour is in accordance with the needs of the port, but it is also a jewel for the city of Tallinn.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-23_U28	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-23_U29	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. It is now publicly known that one third of the shares in the Port of Tallinn are quoted on the stock market. I will ask you for such an estimate of how popular the listing of these shares will be. And are individuals given a chance?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-23_U30	Yes, private individuals are also given the opportunity to participate in the issue. I hope this stock is popular with civilians. But, of course, in order for such a large share issue to be successful, institutional investors are also needed. Work is being done to make the stock popular. I'm not a fortune teller, but I hope the mission is successful.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-23_U31	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-23_U32	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! You have described, technically, very nicely how this money goes to the liquidity reserve, but if we look at the budget this year and the policy of our government, we will see two things. All taxes, which depend on people's work, are well received. People work hard, and taxes are coming in nicely. However, due to the inability of the government to plan well for more than 40 million euros. That is why my question is as follows. If the government had drawn up a budget smarter and more economically, it would not need to be increased by the extraordinary sale of state assets, so that the liquidity reserve could be increased through economic growth. Would that have been the wrong way?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-23_U33	The minority holding of the Port of Tallinn does not go to the stock market because the government needs more money in the budget. There are three major goals. First of all, you remember that the Port of Tallinn had some problems with the transparency of management during the previous management period. Currently, management is very good, but the management of the stock exchange company will be even more transparent and reliable. Secondly, this step provides an opportunity to invest in an Estonian company whose share is reliable. It'll boost our stock market. And thirdly, it increases the value of the company.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-23_U34	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-23_U35	Thank you. You said that selling shares in the Port of Tallinn, placing the company on the stock market will make the management of the Port of Tallinn more transparent. Does this mean distrusting the current leadership, the Council and itself? After all, the Minister of Economic Affairs is the so-called general meeting of the port. Have you not managed to ensure transparent management of the port so far?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-23_U36	Thank you. I think you misunderstood, Mr Pierce. The current port management has done a very good job; there are no complaints about the management of the company. The management has also been a very good partner for us in the share issue of a minority share holding in the port. This is certainly possible because the current manager of the port has experience in managing the stock exchange. The Port Board has been appointed in accordance with the proposals of the Nomination Committee. After all, there has been a change in the fact that the members of the Boards of State Enterprises are not elected by the Minister at his best discretion, but by a nominating committee made up of independent experts to find the best experts in the field and then make their own proposals. But I think that placing minority shares on the stock market will further increase this transparency, because the rules of the stock exchange are very good. In fact, public companies that are not on the stock market have also set an example in improving their governance.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-23_U37	Kalle Palling.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-23_U38	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I'm gonna ask you a little bit more about listing those shares. How many of these shares are planned to be quoted on the Tallinn Stock Exchange? The bonds of several state companies are already public, but unfortunately not on the Tallinn Stock Exchange. The amount of capital simply is not enough to indicate, for example, Eesti Energia or Elering's bond. How much of this 33% is the so-called public shares that private investors can subscribe to, and how much of this 33% is meant for institutional investors? What direction do you intend to take with regard to these institutional investors? Are they from this region or somewhere else, I don't know, like America or China? How do you choose who these strategic investors will be?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-23_U39	With the question of how we choose, you probably mean what advice is given by financial advisors. Above all, we want to involve Estonian private investors with the IPO, but also pension funds. Of course, foreign investors are also needed for this volume. All the notifications to different groups are different, but there's a plan for everyone. We expect to buy both Estonian people and Baltic and Nordic funds, banks. In particular, IPO is expected to be of high quality and professionally organised. That's what we have professional advisors for. More detailed details on how the percentages are divided will be available once the prospectus has been published.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-23_U40	Thank you, Mr President. Very honourable Minister! Personally, of course, I support this bill in the sense that it is really good to take some part of the Port of Tallinn to the stock market. The people of Estonia need to be given opportunities to invest. Just as Rain Lõhmus said a few days ago, "Money doesn't grow. " Money must be invested in things that are growing, and the Port of Tallinn is one such opportunity. However, I ask you: what is your view that it will definitely be popular on? In fact, whether an act is popular or not determines mostly how many shares are issued at all and what the subscription price is. What is the way to the price of subscription? Who's gonna decide the price?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-23_U41	Thomas Stone Mountain.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-23_U42	The subscription price is decided by the professional advisor and the bank syndicate. But why do I think the IPO will be popular? Because the people of Estonia are given the opportunity to place their money in a strong state enterprise with good development potential. People will be able to take part in the company's future development and participate in the company's future activities. The argument is also that the Port of Tallinn has been a stable dividend payer over the last decade.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-23_U43	Aivar Sõerd.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-23_U44	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, As regards the revenue from the public offer of the participation of the Port of Tallinn, it is known that this money will be received by the Port of Tallinn, and then probably partly at its expense the state will withdraw 68 million euros as a dividend this year. This amount is in the budget explanatory memorandum and you have confirmed it. I am asking you: you have said that these 68 million will be received by the liquidity reserve. It is important that it is the liquidity reserve, not the stabilisation reserve. It is already included in the liquidity reserve to cover the negative cash flow of the State, i.e. it is essentially intended to cover current costs. Did you not consider this option in the government to channel these EUR 68 million of extraordinary dividend instead of the liquidity reserve into the stabilisation reserve, from which money can only be taken if the country is in a difficult economic situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-23_U45	Thank you. You must understand that speculation on all kinds of numbers is not appropriate at the moment. I repeat that this amount you mentioned is currently shown in the state budget explanatory memorandum as a forecast of the amount of dividends paid by the Port of Tallinn. Now, the liquidity reserve versus the stabilisation reserve was discussed by the government and decided on the basis of the proposals made by the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-23_U46	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-23_U47	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! You've been a little too general in your answers. When you became a minister, the Port of Tallinn was handed over to you quite in the face of suspicions of corruption. Please tell me what steps your government has taken, thanks to which you can confirm that the Port of Tallinn is free from corruption! And can you confirm that it is?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-23_U48	Yes, I can. As far as these steps are concerned, the main point is that the Council now consists of the people chosen by the Nomination Committee. The port's management is new and has a very good background. I mentioned that Valdo Kalm has experience in managing a stock exchange. And if it seems to you that I have answered too generally, the reason for this is that the IPO of the Port of Tallinn has reached a very specific level and that no specific information must be shared before the issue of the shares is made.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-23_U49	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-23_U50	Thank you. The government's tax policy has led to budget receipts, especially the receipts of excise duties. Several tens of million euros were lost last year; this year, the Institute of Economics estimates that at least 80 to 100 million will not be collected. Basically, in order to cover this disadvantage, the government intends to sell the shares of the Port of Tallinn and fill all possible holes with this money. Don't you think that's a pretty short-sighted policy? A goose that lays eggs will be sold just to waste the money it received for running expenses.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-23_U51	Thank you. The Port of Tallinn is not sold. The majority participation of the Port of Tallinn remains with the state, and this is the plan that I am now in front of you in order to change the development plan for the years 2014 to 2020.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-23_U52	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-23_U53	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. You have mentioned here a few times today the potential interest of pension funds in the matter. Here's my question. Do you have any indication that Estonian pension funds are interested in shares in the Port of Tallinn?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-23_U54	Yes! A year ago, when this plan was initiated, I had meetings with representatives of Estonian banks with a larger number of pension funds. We charted their interest in both state-owned shares and bonds. As we know, some Nordic banks have so far pursued a policy that the money of the pension funds of Estonian people has not been invested in Estonian companies. But we hope that this secure dividend share could at least cause us to consider abandoning this policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-23_U55	Igor Gräzin.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-23_U56	Dear Minister, The question of the development plan. The development plan has said that moving south of Tartu towards Riga, the speed will soon be at 170-180 km/h. No work will be done for this, however. Ossip, the head of department under your command, said that he doesn't care about South Estonia at all, and he's never going to deal with it. I hope that was one of the reasons he was forced to leave. But now you have a new employee there, and he doesn't name South Estonia at all. At the same time, the Mayor of Tartu Urmas Klaas has repeatedly emphasised that the Tartians and other South Estonians are not related to other Europe through Tallinn, but only through Riga. Do you intend to continue not to comply with the points of the development plan concerning the very fast direct connection between Tartu and Riga?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-23_U57	Thank you! The main investments in rail following the transport development plan for the years 2014 to 2020 have been made using EU funds. More specifically, EUR 97.5 million will be reached by rail. These funds cannot be re-routed overnight. A year or a year and a half ago, these funds had already been targeted at where they would go. Now that the new government took office, we have seen certain gaps in development: the works that needed to be done on the railroad, but for which no money was available during this budget period. That is why we also decided to make additional investments. It is true that 135 million euros will come into infrastructure projects, and a part of this will also be spent in the direction of Tartu, such as the renovation of the Emajõe Bridge, which will certainly contribute to the growth of speed. Work in the next period has not yet been decided, but it is likely that a considerable amount will go into improving rail infrastructure in the next budgetary period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-23_U58	Minister, there are no further questions for you. Thanks for the answers.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-23_U59	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-23_U60	Erki Savisaar, Member of the Economic Commission, will make a presentation on behalf of the Steering Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-23_U61	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed this draft on 15 January and also on 15 January. The Minister gave us an overview of the draft just as comprehensively as he did a moment ago on this board. Several of the questions raised in the Commission also sounded here today; I am not going to dwell on them any longer. I would add that the draft law amending the State Assets Act is also linked to the introduction of the Port of Tallinn to the stock exchange, which we hope will be discussed in this large hall in February. The Commission's discussion took an interest in a number of other issues, such as whether the topic of driving sharing and the Saaremaa Bridge could also be included in the development plan and some more. It was clear from the Minister that the development plan would not be opened at the moment on other points. In fact, the Riigikogu does not have very many rights to do so. The Riigikogu approves development plans and does not draw up them. All such large and important projects, as well as the changed situations, will be reflected in the next development plan, whose development will remain mainly in the next year and should reach the Riigikogu during the next membership in 2020. At the end of the debate, the Commission decided by consensus to propose the completion of the first reading and to propose that the deadline for amendments be 10 working days, i.e. 5.15 p.m. on 6 February 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-23_U62	Any questions for the waitress? There aren't any. Thank you very much. I will open negotiations for representatives of the political groups. Igor Gräzin on behalf of the Reform Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-23_U63	The main decisions that this bill came before us in the first place do not raise any objections. The involvement of private capital in the development of infrastructure is in any case positive, but only if it is really for the benefit of people, the public and the state. To the contrary, the recently exploded discussion of the Saaremaa Bridge, where the only people to whom no one has asked and does not want to ask, are the islanders, the muhu and the continental Estonians. Their opinion does not matter to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Prime Minister, and as has been announced, they will not be able to leave in the future. If we are talking about investment in rail during the 2014-2020 period, that is what has happened. But I want to point out that, as the Minister has done today, the only question that matters was not answered. And the important question is what will be the link between Central and South Estonia and its historic capital, metropolis, transport and logistics centre Riga. Did you hear how the link between Tartu and Valga and Riga improve? It will heal by investing in the bridge of the Emajõgi River. If no one has been there, I'll let you know that the bridge of the Emajõgi River is when you go up from Tartu, where Vorbus had folk trips organized by the Komsomoli Committee. There's a bridge to the Emajõgi River. In short, even the blind can see that it is at Tallinn's side, and driving towards Riga will not help us in any way. And there is another question. When we talk about direct connections, the first aspect is that direct connections towards South Estonia, as we have heard from the Minister, no one plans to do in the future, even though it serves 2/3 of the people. And there's another problem with the railroads. Trains run, and they drive nicely. Their main problem is that they don't stop. You may have noticed what the cost-free nature of public transport in Tallinn means? There is no doubt that there is free public transport in Tallinn and it is free squared, because public transport does not travel in Tallinn. We also saw pictures of Tallinn public transport in the newspapers yesterday. Tallinn public transports go where they have travelled since the days of Päts and Barbare. Try to get out of Astangu downtown! This is longer in time than Aegviidu from Tallinn. Try to make connections somewhere around the Space Cinema. It's not possible! For example, children in Audentes can't get less than two or three connections. The same thing is happening to us in rail transport. I'm asking for more time, if I may.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-23_U64	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-23_U65	Last night's Postimees had a lot of talk about this and showed train stops where people are and trains don't stop or vice versa. This planning doesn't make sense. I've already used this image before, I've written about it, and I'll come back to it, but I still want to highlight the well-known phenomenon of a girl with a Tabivere violin. It's not the girl with the violin, it's the attitude. We have reached a situation where Elron's trains are not going where we want them to go, but where Elron wants them to go. And there is no South and Central Estonia in Elron's mysterious plans. Basically, I wouldn't like it either, and Kadri doesn't like it, but that's the way it is. If you have a moment, I'll continue. Thank you. The problem is that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications uses the wrong indicators when making its transport development plans. He will use the number of people, but he will use the rail-road miles at anything, forgetting the basic thing, which is the characteristic of Estonia, and which is perhaps the most expensive thing for Estonia, which can be: that Estonia treats thousands of people not much better than one person. And if one person is left behind because of some formal plan, it's a person who's abandoned. What is the point of talking about an increase in pension or income tax exemption if a person is simply left standing at a bus stop that has been snowing, because there is no free transport and there is no other kind of transport, and the train does not stop. And you know what's most interesting: the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications doesn't even answer the question of the Committee on Rural Affairs or Economic Affairs, what happens next. The Minister has the right not to listen, but he has no right not to reply. And this topic comes up again, and not because of a girl with a violin who has soon grown up, and not because of Tabivere, but because the transport development plan, which at least gave us the opportunity to initiate some kind of change in order to turn transport towards a person, has missed this opportunity. What people from these majority or minority holdings, when officials of the Ministry of Economic Affairs are driving around and, figuratively speaking, in the cab of the train driver, are scrambling around to report to a minister who does not even respond to the Riigikogu because of courtesy! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-23_U66	Mr Gräzin, I would like to remind you that during the negotiations the negotiator's speech is a monologue in a formal way, in essence he can be one that speaks to every person on our planet, including the minister. Sven Sester, please, on behalf of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-23_U67	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a good feeling about being on the remote today. We are actually taking one step on the long road agreed at the conclusion of the 2016 Coalition Agreement. In addition to the transport development plan, a change in the State Property Act is expected in the near future. I looked back in history and I wondered what was the last big deal in the country, just with different companies. And, you know, I found that 11 years ago, in January 2007, the last major transaction was made and it was in the second direction: the state bought back the Estonian Railway. I think we're taking a big step in a completely different direction. I also looked from history that in 2007 and also in autumn 2006 Andrus Ansip said that Estonian Railways must be state-owned. Now we feel that, in reality, the state must look at its holdings in different companies in a completely different way. I think that what the Minister said on this platform, transparency, efficiency, capital markets, is one of the key words that we should follow in the future. When I said at the beginning of my speech that this is one step on this long road that we agreed on in November, that is actually the case. When we look at the last year's changes relating to public enterprises, we see that we have already done a great deal, a great deal of work. Perhaps many will no longer remember that, in earlier periods, politicians appointed members to boards of state companies without any additional criteria. A nominating committee has now been set up which, on the basis of very clear criteria and due to very in-depth discussions, will propose to the Minister the appointment of members of the board of directors of one company or another. It is based on the interests of the company: whether financial education is needed, whether there is legal education, whether there is a need for an entrepreneur who knows a particular market or an expert. It's a big change. In fact, there were no years or could be said that even over a decade there was something like this. Another important change that has been made over the last year concerns the annual accounts of public undertakings. They must be published on the websites on a quarterly basis and they must not only be on dry reports; there must also be clearly reasoned decisions. And the third change is sponsoring policy. If you remember, the Port of Tallinn is one of the examples where this policy was something that no one could understand and which was finally done with different judgments. In essence, the Port of Tallinn is actually an interesting company with many examples. And as far as sponsorship policy is concerned, I think that the obvious example of opaque management is what happened in the Port of Tallinn. I think that this step and the actions agreed with the new coalition in 2016 will have an impact that will pass on to the future. In answering one question, the Minister said that in the near future the Port of Tallinn is on the market and it is also planned to sell part of the state's participation in the Estonian Roads. In fact, the coalition agreement further states the renewable energy company of Eesti Energia, which the Minister of Finance is currently trying to implement. And this is also the topic of EVR Cargo, according to the coalition agreement. I think that the country needs to review its positions in several companies. True story, I think the more private capital we have, the more private knowledge, the better the country is. In my opinion, transparency is really one of the main keywords when it comes to placing the Port of Tallinn on the stock market. If you have extra capital on the sidelines, you'll understand more, you'll report more clearly. Apart from the State, there are other questioners who want to know how their capital is placed, why such investments are made. So transparency and efficiency are crucial keywords. And capital markets, of course! A few more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-23_U68	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-23_U69	Capital markets have been discussed at length how much the state should contribute to the development of capital markets. I think the Port of Tallinn is one of the examples in which we can give an additional boost to Estonian capital markets. So once again: I think this is a good initiative if we change this specific development plan. I look forward, and the entire IRL expects, that all of this will really go over the ownership of state-owned companies and that decisions that we should have, why we should have and where we should have additional capital will be made in the near future. This is, on the one hand, in the light of the coalition agreement currently in force, but certainly should also be done in future potential coalitions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-23_U70	There's no more calls. I will close negotiations on the general principles of the draft decision. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 573. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft at 5.15 p.m. on 6 February. We'll meet tomorrow at 1:00 in this very hall. Have a good day at work! Closure of the sitting at 10.48 a.m.
