ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U1	Honourable Riigikogu and Honourable Ministers, good afternoon. Question Time. Incoming check, please! 32 members of the Riigikogu are in Question Time. Government members: Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Minister of Culture Indrek Saar, Minister of Finance Toomas Tõniste. I will give you one additional question for each of the main issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U2	Answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, asks Martin Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U3	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good Prime Minister! At the beginning of December, a major UN event is taking place in Marrakech, Tunisia, to adopt a declaration on migration. I understand that Estonia has agreed that we are part of this too. The content of this declaration, however, is pretty nasty. The first thing on this side is to list earlier UN declarations and conventions and other documents which, in one way or another, undermine the right of sovereign states to restrict migration. But when we look at this document itself, there are a whole series of completely incomprehensible things out there, starting from the fact that we should provide free legal aid, free education, free medical care for all immigrants who come, in their own language. Moreover, we should also adopt laws that, under the name of hate speech, ban immigration or criticism of immigrants.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U4	Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U5	Why does Estonia join such a thing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U6	Thank you first. Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Members of the Riigikogu! Good questioner! You said at the beginning of December, 10/11. A commercial or migration agreement should be concluded in the United Nations (UN) Marrakech on 31 December. The final document on the Global Migration Framework was discussed by the government on 22 March. a. and it is in line with the position of the Government of the Republic. This was also the basis for Estonia's intergovernmental negotiations. Certainly, migration is a global challenge, so we must act together and also seek common solutions. For the first time, the debate on this migration framework brings together countries of origin, transit and destination of migration and provides a platform for dialogue between these countries. As regards the specific points that you mentioned, the honourable questioner, it must be said that it is of course important for Estonia that the final document of the Global Migration Framework is legally non-binding. The points you have mentioned are of an indicative nature, and this guarantees countries the sovereign right to shape and implement their migration policies and, of course, to protect their borders. The global migration framework does not bring us new responsibilities.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U7	Martin Helme, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U8	Thank you. So I'm going to go over it. You're saying it's not mandatory for us. I disagree, however, that all these UN documents give us at least a moral obligation. You said that this is in line with the views of the Estonian Government. Are you really telling us honestly that our government's position is that we need to start restricting freedom of expression to sections of hate speech, or that immigration or immigrants must not be criticised? Is it also in line with the views of the Estonian Government that the state must start organising trainings for media companies and motivate them to write about immigration and immigrants in a way that is not 'discriminatory', i.e. to intervene in the freedom of the press? Is it also in line with the Estonian Government's view that we urgently need to stop being stateless persons on our territory? Is that all in line with our government's position?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U9	Thank you. I have no choice but to ask you, honourable member of the Riigikogu: believe what I said! This does not lead to any new obligations. I also said that this document was of an indicative nature, and I also told you that the final document was not legally binding on us. You asked what the positions and principles of the Government of the Republic of Estonia were when these negotiations took place. I guess it was just to have general principles. One can certainly mention, for example, the fight against trafficking in human beings and the prevention of illegal migration. Now you have come up with the issue of discrimination: do we agree with something that we do not have? In my opinion, this principle is very clear to us. If we break the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, we will see that in § 12 it is nicely said that everyone is equal before the law, that no one must be discriminated against because of nationality, race, colour, gender, language, origin, religion, political or other beliefs, property and social status, or other circumstances. We also agree with what Article 2 of the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights says and what the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union says. So, at a meeting in Marrakech on 10 and 11 December, Estonia will certainly not assume any new obligations that you have identified as a threat.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U10	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U11	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Prime Minister! We will be able to continue this debate later today, because there is one more question on this very subject. But your answers will be a new question. Why, then, do we have to sign something that is not legally binding on us? So to speak, discrimination on grounds of origin is already prohibited by virtue of our constitution. Why do we have to sign a treaty that, as you say, doesn't mean anything that doesn't impose any obligations on us? What do we need it for anyway? Is this just a declarative gesture for someone? Isn't it an empty waste of time to go to a conference and sign a contract that doesn't mean anything? And for some reason, there are increasingly countries that say that they do not want to sign it, they refuse to sign it. These include a large number of European countries, as well as the United States, which is one of the leading countries in the United Nations. What is your explanation for this? Why are we signing something that means nothing to us?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U12	Thank you. The overall objective of the migration framework is to agree common principles on how to manage international migration so that it is safe and regular and is based on rules. Estonia certainly agrees with all these views. This framework is legally, as I said, non-binding and guarantees countries the sovereign right to plan and implement national migration policies and to protect their borders. After all, there are two issues relating to this issue: one is the issue of migration and the other is the issue of refugees. As we know, Estonia has said that when we are talking about the reception of refugees, Estonia has always taken the firm stand that when it comes to refugees whose life or health is at risk, the state can accept them on a voluntary basis. On a voluntary basis, this can be done! Why do you need this document? As I replied to your good groupmate, Mr Helme, the basic thing is that the general principles apply as widely as possible. Of course, Estonia supports this in the United Nations family.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U13	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U14	Andres Herkel's question is answered by Finance Minister Toomas Tõniste. Please, Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Minister of Finance! You have already been asked several times about the 143 million which are granted from the state budget to Eesti Energia to increase its share capital, but to be honest, the answers make it more confusing. I don't know what it's for. However, in one of your last statements you have also said that this contribution is not guaranteed. As a result, I have a question: can the Minister of Finance come before the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu this week to ask for this line, which is completely in place in a budget that is difficult to read, to increase the amount of financial assets to be reduced by this amount? If you're not going to do this, why is that amount still necessary? Please explain to us!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U16	Good manager! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Yes, Eesti Energia has a share capital contribution of 143 million euros, but as has been said several times, this money exists on that line, but it is not guaranteed for the company. A real share capital contribution requires separate analysis, reasoning and decisions. However, the amount provided for in the national budget creates assumptions, a basis, an opportunity to have an appropriate investment and, if necessary, a decision to make such a decision. Investment decisions are likely to be taken at the end of this year, but mostly during the next year. However, by the time they are made, this financing must be guaranteed. And these planned investments are for the development of the distribution network and renewable energy and the construction of the planned oil plant.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U17	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, The first question I have to ask is: why do we still have to write on the budget lines sums whose use is not previously known to the Riigikogu? Secondly, you mentioned three possible purposes. Is all three purposes in mind, or is one of them chosen? And why does Eesti Energia not use the possibilities to get money out of the markets and solve these problems itself? What does it even mean to guarantee funding? Does that mean we're securing this state budget with money? Why do we do this to this company if we want competition and fair conditions in the market?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U19	Thank you. All share capital contributions are subject to the condition that, as a result, the State will subsequently receive more income from the company, more dividends. That is why this allocation can be taken as a financing transaction. These amounts have been calculated in such a way that, where appropriate, they can either be channelled to the distribution network for base investments, where around EUR 50 million may be needed in 2019, or to the design of an oil plant with a total cost of 200 million. In 2019 it would be planning and design work. But I stress once again: this money is provided for there, there is a possibility of using it, but that does not mean that it is being used.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U20	Enn Meri, please! Please ask in one minute, I'll remind you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. There are other ways to raise capital. Why hasn't it been used or weighed, I would say, for example, borrowing or issuing bonds? Don't you think these are alternatives?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U22	Thank you. In the specific case, the State does not need to borrow for it. Eesti Energia will definitely take out a loan for these transactions and there is no need to issue bonds for this purpose. Once again, this money, which is earmarked for this purpose in the budget, cannot be regarded as a expenditure; it is, in fact, a financing transaction. If we were to start spending back there, which is to use this money as a source of cover for new proposals, it would mean that the budget would, in essence, be in deficit.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U23	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U24	Answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, asks Jürgen Ligi. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U25	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister! In Europe, we are talking about stopping the clocking. A lot of people think it can get worse, not better. ELAK gave you a mandate to defend the 'permanent summer time' option in Europe's decision-making process, and that decision was unanimous. I believe most people thought that permanent winter time was even worse than clocking, so you got a mandate to protect summer time. What did you do? You have made a statement that you cannot imagine a different time with Finland. So it is as if you expect a mandate from the Finnish Parliament or the Government. Tell me that the news was not true and you are actually defending the position that ELAK asked to defend!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U26	Thank you. I certainly do not expect a mandate from the Finnish Government or Parliament on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U27	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U28	I think my question was pretty clear. You made such a statement. Your Minister of Infrastructure has repeatedly said that he personally supports winter time. After that, people are concerned, and Parliament is also concerned. What is the position you defend when you received a mandate from ELAK, i.e. the Estonian Parliament to protect permanent summer time? This is said to be supported by Latvia and Lithuania, with whom we have a land border, not a sea border.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U29	Thank you. It is true that the European Commission's draft directive proposes ending the obligation currently in force under EU law to turn the clock twice a year from 1 April 2019. This gives every Member State of the European Union a choice whether to stay permanently in winter time, or zone time, or summer time. Since the short time frame for the Commission's proposal to stop rolling the clock as early as 1 April next year has been quite criticised by the Member States, the Austrian Presidency has proposed a compromise, according to which the clock will be closed from 1 April 2021 instead. The Government of the Republic will definitely support the cessation of clocking in Estonia as a result of the meeting of the Cabinet of 1 November at the latest on 1 April 2021. The government has not made a choice between permanent summer and winter time. We consider it important to continue negotiations and consultations with the various countries of the European Union. We also consider it important to ask for the views of different organisations, including umbrella organisations, whether it is the right zone or summer time. In addition, MKM has commissioned a survey of 1,500 people from Turku-Studies AS to find out about the attitudes of the people towards clocking. The results will be received by the end of December. In any case, when it comes to Finland and Latvia, I think it is useful for us to be in the same time zone as the other Baltic States and Finland. The question is whether this is possible if we take into account the final proposals made by Latvia, Lithuania and Finland.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U30	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U31	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Prime Minister! I expected a specific answer on this issue to the question put by a good colleague. He asked very specifically about the mandate given by ELAK, and you would like to hear a clear answer. As far as I know, public opinion supports the so-called long white time. If we look at what zone we live in and want to enjoy more sunlight, it would be quite reasonable. Am I to understand correctly that you are not going to implement the mandate of the EUAK? Or do you have another plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U32	Thank you. First of all, who will finally make the decision that will live in time in Estonia, either in zone time or in summer time. It's a government decision, a government decision. Of course, in the European Union, ELAK gives a mandate to present Estonia's position. ELAK can, of course, change its mandate at all times. But yes, within Estonia this decision is made by the government level. I myself have been a member of the European Union Affairs Commission and a member of the Riigikogu, and I certainly do not want to tell you that the government has a desire to somehow bypass the mandate of ELAK. As I said in replying to the previous questioner, the wish for final decisions to be taken by 1 April next year will not be met. In order to accompany the current Austrian Presidency's proposal, a final solution must be found by 1 April 2021 at the latest. I think that makes sense. Now, what time could Estonia choose? As I said, the government is of the opinion that the ringing of a bell should stop. We support it. However, as I have already explained, the change needs a little more consultation within the European Union, a little more time. It is also very important to me what the result of the above-mentioned study says. The election includes 1500 Estonian residents. In addition, more than 20, if not 30, organisations and government agencies have been asked for an opinion. And, of course, the position of our entrepreneurs must also be taken into account. We must also draw on what regions we have closer cooperation in the field of entrepreneurship. It would be best if Finland and the Baltic countries remained in the same time zone.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U33	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U34	Minister of Finance Toomas Tõniste answers the question asked by Raivo Põldaru. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U35	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good Minister of Finance! Money is indeed black and needs washing, but not all banks do. Yesterday, the discussion about Danske's bank, in which money laundering took place, got quite heated in this hall. When did it become known to you that there are suspiciously large amounts of money moving through this Estonian branch and that there may be money laundering there? And how do you feel about what the Ministry of Finance, or state, has in Danske Bank?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U36	Thank you. I became a minister last summer. After all, this issue has been up all along, because the media has strongly pointed it out. The media initially raised it on the agenda in Denmark, where active politicians have kept it up, and the same has happened here in Estonia. This is justified because suspicious transactions took place through the Estonian branch of Danske Bank. It is understandable that we are very concerned. We are pleased that these transactions have been closed years ago, no more suspicious non-residents' transactions will occur at least at the Estonian branch of Danske Bank, as far as we know. And it is also good that Estonia is at the forefront in this sense, that it has paid attention to this problem in the past and that it now offers different solutions. One key word here is, in any case, international cooperation. However, if we are talking about collecting the state's income through the Finance Ministry's group accounts, yes, there will also be settlements through Danske Bank A/S Estonia's branch, but I hope you also know that on 30 November the Ministry of Finance will close the account at Danske Bank's Estonian branch.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U37	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U38	Thank you. I thank you for your positive attitude towards what Estonia has done to prevent money laundering. You are one of the few coalition politicians who has confirmed that these opportunities have been closed years ago. And I was honored to be in your position at that time, including the chairman of the Financial Supervision Authority. But the reality is, in this hall, one of the parties was precisely the Financial Supervision Authority. Even court cases were carried here where the Financial Supervision Authority was tried to be held accountable. What is the government's position? Have you discussed in the government whether to defend Estonia's reputation more widely? Estonia is being smeared internationally, we are in the news, and now one company in the country continues to do so. Have you discussed in the government whether to say a few hard words, as Eesti Pank and many others have said? Is this government business?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U39	Thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U40	Thank you for your question. The government is certainly concerned about the state's reputation and the accusations that come against Estonia. There is a great deal of reputational design here. This issue has been discussed several times at the meeting of the Cabinet and a separate government committee has been set up to deal with the fight against money laundering, is analysing the situation and is also proposing ways to fight money laundering more effectively in the future. However, I admit that it is actually very difficult to tell politicians that they must not talk about this issue, because it is still important. And there are questions in the air that we have not received any answers to. You can always ask if you could have done better. I, too, am concerned that this whole point is, as is the case only, directed towards the Financial Supervision Authority, although in this sense the Financial Supervision Authority, the Financial Intelligence Unit and the Public Prosecutor's Office form a whole. Once again, this is a branch of Danske Bank operating in Estonia, which was actually supervised by their own supervisory authority. It's just that we were reacting forcefully and shutting down this suspicious business here.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U41	Raivo Põldaru has now decided to ask a more specific question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U42	Thank you. The decision was actually earlier, but I listened to the Minister's good answer and forgot the button. But thank you! And, Minister, thank you again for your answers. Evidently, this closure of accounts is also a prestigious step. Do you have any information that other public enterprises are doing the same? Or is there no information?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U43	Thank you. I wouldn't even tie it to reputation. It is just Danske Bank that has decided to focus on serving only non-residents in Estonia in the future and the state no longer considers it necessary to have an account there. I am pleased that it is planned to open a bank account at LHV Bank. Technical preparations are currently taking place so that all people and companies with an account in one of Estonia's major banks can be settled as cheaply and quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U44	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U45	Minister of Culture Indrek Saar answers Krista Aru's question. Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U46	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Your administration has recently come up with a lot of very different-weight news. But cultural life is dynamic, and the news must be very different. Maestro Neeme Järvi suggested that in the context of the expected changes to the Estonian Concert it would be reasonable to give the administration and rent of the Estonian Concert Hall directly to the Estonian National Symphony Orchestra. But what I'm asking right now is, how far is it to plan a new concert hall? For the solution, who is engaged in leasing and who is the main administrator, can still only be an interim option.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U47	Thank you, good questioner, for this question. First of all, let me rejoice with you in the year of the Estonian anniversary about the nature of the Estonian music culture, its meaning for our people and its meaning in the wider world. In 1870 Jakob Hurt formulated one of the visions facing our people with an invitation to become great by spirit because we will probably never grow up in numbers. And as far as our music is concerned, we are very much larger than our population, much larger than our territory, much greater than our economic capacity, etc. In this context, it is understandable that we would also like the working conditions in which we work to be world-class. Yet, we need to understand what our ability is. As I said, our economy is not as big as our music, but it must also feed the cultural buildings and the living conditions that we have created. If we were to build a completely new separate concert hall now, it would be the biggest investment ever made in the Republic of Estonia for one or another cultural object at all. That is why I consider it very sensible to consider this step very seriously and to try to find a way to resolve this issue through the reconstruction of the city hall. There could be a modern concert hall and an opera hall in the city hall in the future. I consider this to be a very rational proposal, and this is supported by the ERSO and the National Opera.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U48	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U49	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for your answer, Minister. I'm gonna go ahead and ask you how far it is to plan the reconstruction of the city hall. Pre-negotiations were held quite a while ago, the city promised its companionship and participation, and it was only necessary to clarify whether the rescue and reconstruction of the city hall could meet all the needs. The city's interest has been, above all, to set up a conference centre. Is there a pre-project now? Have the options been explained? How far is it to the city hall?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U50	Thanks for asking. The Ministry of Culture is not the organiser of the renovation of the city hall, as it is primarily owned by the city of Tallinn. Unfortunately, I do not have any more precise information on exactly how far these processes have come. Sensitively, I have the impression from this debate we had in the Committee on Culture, as well as from later comments, that the city has some reservations. I am very grateful if you are also helping to get answers to these questions, also taking up the topic in communication with the city of Tallinn. I think it is a very good plan, let us look at it either from the state's perspective or from the Tallinn city's perspective. We should join forces and find the use of the city hall, which ensures that there are 365 days of activity a year and that we also have sufficient resources to carry out activities there. These organisations, whether they are talking about ERSO, the Estonian National Opera or also the Estonian Concert and other concert organisers, have sufficient capacity to give content to the planned halls and the whole renewed city hall. I very much hope that my feeling is wrong, but if it's not wrong, then I really hope that the city will overcome these doubts.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U51	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U52	Thank you. Mr. Minister of Culture! The public has recently received alarming news about the financial situation of theatre and concert institutions. In particular, we have learned that the most famous institution in this area, the Estonian Concert, is in deficit with EUR 300000 in its budget. You have commented on this, but you are not the only one, in no way easy, that it is not a problem, it will be overcome and the budget for the coming year will be raised to this year. Tell me how big this problem really is! With a little feeling of budgeting, I know that a large part of budget expenditure is always fixed costs. If there is a shortfall of EUR 300000 for variable costs, this seems to be a very large number. How much does this missing amount represent from the concert activity budget? For the coming year, you'll have to cover it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U53	Thank you for your question. I certainly have never said, nor have I thought, that 300,000 euros minus the budget of the Estonian Concert is not a problem. I take financial discipline very seriously. As head of cultural institutions, I have tried very hard to follow it myself. Inevitably, it has happened somehow that I have had to deal with debts previously incurred in several institutions, and so I take these things very seriously. I also said this in my comment on the financial situation of the Estonian Concert. Indeed, there is a cash flow problem. Last year, expenditure has exceeded revenue and, as a result, today's balance is ca 300 000 euros minus, which accounts for about 3% of the budget of the Estonian Concert. The budget of the Estonian Concert is nearly 9 million. However, anyone who has been more familiar with such bodies will realise that, by planning the budget a little more conservatively, these problems can be solved in a relatively reasonable time frame without making drastic changes to the action plans. But, of course, we cannot say in any way that it does not have to be taken more seriously. You can ask me again right now, or we can talk later. But it is clear that the head of the Estonian Concert must treat it with the utmost seriousness, as must the Estonian Concert Council.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U54	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U55	Finance Minister Toomas Tõnistel must now answer Aivar Sõerdi's question. Please, Aivar Sõerd!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U56	Honourable Chairman! Dear Minister, On Monday, the State Budget Control Commission discussed the issue of state budget comprehension. It's still a big problem. The Chancellor of Justice has also said that members of the Riigikogu find it difficult to understand the explanatory statement of the budget. But I have a very simple question for you. If we take up the text of the State Budget Act, it says black and white that the revenue from the state budget will be EUR 11.064 billion next year, the costs will be EUR 11.315 billion, which is 250 million more than the revenue. How is it possible that, at the same time, the government is saying that the budget is nominally on the plus side of EUR 130 million? I know that the budget has been made several years on an accrual basis, but presented on an accrual basis, just as he is on the tables here, that's the minus of the budget. Please explain!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U57	Thank you for your question. As for the first part of the question, it has been a debate here in the Riigikogu for years, whether the budget that is submitted to the Riigikogu is too thick or too thin. If he's too fat, they're complaining that we can't work it out, why can't he be thinner and easier to read. If they try to make it easier to read, someone will find that things have not been explained in sufficient detail, they won't understand. When the Special Committee on National Budget Control presented its proposals in 2016, the explanatory memorandum has been corrected accordingly, it has been tried to bring it into line with them so that everything can be understood by the average Estonian in order to be written more easily. This debate will certainly continue. Of course, there is an opportunity to improve the structure of the budget and to improve the fact that there is a great deal of technical information, codes now, and they will disappear in the future if there is a shift to ABB. So I'm sure this problem will be solved in some respects. But then new members of the Riigikogu come again and find that they do not understand exactly and would like something to be reflected in the budget in a different way. However, when we are talking about non-coverage of expenditure and revenue, we really need to look at the budget as a whole. There is also money in it for our European Union projects. We'll make the costs first, and we'll make a profit later.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U58	Thank you. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U59	Mr. Minister! I repeat my question. We have a black and white budget plan, and there is European Union money in it too. Revenues amount to EUR 11 billion 64 million, expenditure to EUR 11 billion 315 million, or expenditure totalling EUR 250 million. Please explain how it is possible for the government to tell us at the same time that the state budget is in surplus with EUR 130 million. Within these numbers, which I have just mentioned to you, Mr Minister, there are also European Union instruments. The law tells us how high the revenue of the state budget is and how high the costs are, all of this is accrual-based for a few years now. Please explain how, at the same time, it is possible that the difference between the government's message on budgetary balance is nearly EUR 400 million.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U60	Thank you. The budgetary position shall be taken as a whole. It also takes into account local authorities, foundations, public enterprises. And, in fact, this adjustment to cash-based budgeting, because not all have gone to ABB. It also plays a role, as I said earlier, in spending one year using these same European Union funds, but next year we will get the money back from the European Union. Financial transactions are also taken into account: an investment is made, which is described in the budget as expenditure, but in fact it is an investment in fixed assets, etc. And the different methodologies used by Statistics Estonia create this difference.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U61	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U62	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! I had the impression from your speech that you were trying to reduce the problem raised by the Chancellor of Justice. He made it very clear to the public that the generalisation of the state budget had crossed the border. You refer to different formations who, in their freshness or youth, may not understand all the lines. But I think it gives a very bad impression that the state budget is as illegible as it seems right now. Are you going to do something specifically about this? But if you think it's okay, ministers shouldn't send out press releases where they're very specific about how much money they're allocating to something. However, if you start looking at the state budget where one or the other line is, the whole team isn't enough to find this line.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U63	Thank you. I really don't want to minimize this problem here. Like I said, this problem's been up for years. I myself have eight years of experience in Parliament, and I know that every time the budget is in the process, it is on the table. One finds that he doesn't understand it the same way, could be that way, and someone else thinks he could be. But with all the proposals in mind, there has been a move in this direction and a move will continue to be made to make the budget as comprehensible and easy to read as possible. The draft law on the state budget itself consists of as little information as possible and basic information is placed in an explanatory memorandum. They've tried to explain the numbers as accurately as possible. In order to make the proposed amendments as simple as possible, the order numbers are the same. So with your assistants, you will be able to propose amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U64	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U65	Prime Minister Jüri Ratas will answer Jaak Madison's question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U66	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Prime Minister! I think we're gonna finish today with what we started. I'm not wasting my time and I'm gonna ask you briefly. In order to debate a very important agreement, there is a presumption that both parties are thoroughly familiar with it. Have you at least read the UN Migration Agreement, which Estonia will sign on 10 December? Have you read it from the beginning to the end?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U67	Thank you. It's a little early before 2:00 a.m. to finish the day. The sun is still high in the sky. As far as I know, the President of the Republic of Estonia should participate in this event in Marrakech. If you ask if this agreement will be signed there, I am not entirely sure that all countries will sign it. Have I seen this document? Yes, I am, of course, with the basic points. And if you'll excuse me, there's one thing I'd like to clarify so that there's no problem with the verbogram. Martin Helme, your penguin, when he asked his first question, was wrong when he mentioned that Marrakech was in Tunisia. No, it's in Morocco. Just to clarify the verbatim that if anyone reads it and wants to go to Marrakesh, he thinks he needs to go to Tunisia. A member of the Riigikogu said so. Well, he can't find it there, he still has to go to Morocco. But, yeah, I've studied these general principles, they've worked through them. As I said, the Government of the Republic approved this document on 22 March. It regulates existing principles, not adding anything new to them. The letter sets out clearer principles for better cooperation on migration and refugee issues with all countries. This is certainly also in Estonia's interest. I believe that this document will provide a better platform for cooperation between countries. As you know, no country alone will certainly be able to do much on this issue. Such international cooperation is needed and the UN is a good platform for this.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U68	The question to be specified by Jaak Madison. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U69	Thank you. In the interest of the verbatim report, I state that you have just answered that you have not read it from the beginning to the end, but have seen it briefly and in certain places. That's how you just answered us. However, as far as the creation of a platform for transnational cooperation is concerned, I think you consider that the decision taken by the United States, Croatia, Austria, Poland, Hungary and some others who have said that this agreement specifically violates their sovereignty is irrelevant, it does not match their interests. Therefore, you attach more importance to the conclusion of this agreement than to the position of those countries which have seen their sovereignty violated in this document. Let me get this straight. If I'm wrong, fix me! Unfortunately, I have a feeling that you have not even read it from the beginning to the end, that you have not gotten into it and that you are not familiar with the views of the countries that have abandoned this agreement. Am I right?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U70	No, you're wrong. I didn't say 'familiarly', I said I was familiar with the basics of this document. We've been talking to the people of the State Department and our ambassador to the United Nations. You indicated that some Member States of the European Union have said that they do not support it. It is known that Austria and Hungary are refusing and that some countries are considering rejection, including some countries of the European Union. In fact, the countries of the European Union have worked together in the intergovernmental negotiations in New York to achieve the most reliable and credible document of common interest. And compared to the beginning of this process, the final document is much better in line with the wishes of the European Union. But, as you said, I, too, regret the fact that there are few countries in the European Union that have announced that they have stepped out of this process. It's not good. At the same time, most countries still share these principles and this is welcome in any case. And as I have already said in answering the first question of Question Time, when we are talking about combating human trafficking, when we are talking about preventing illegal migration, Estonia's position has always been to address the root causes of migration.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U71	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! In general, it should be understood that everything that is not individually agreed is not legally binding either. What are some aspects of this agreement that we are taking on with it some new obligations that we still do not have?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U73	Thank you. That is a very good question, but I answered it repeatedly under the first point. But, of course, I repeat that the global migration framework will not bring us any new responsibilities. Point one. Point two is that it is important for Estonia that the final document of the Global Migration Framework is legally non-binding, and so it is! just to ensure that countries have the sovereign right to design and implement national migration policies and to protect their borders. I also said in answer to the first question that Estonia has said that if we are talking about refugees and those who are really running away from risking their lives or health, then Estonia has been a pro-voluntary advocate of the principle. That's the way it is now. So this document does not lead to any new obligations. But, as I mentioned, it gives us a better platform for meaningful dialogue, giving us the opportunity to work together on the complex issue that the migration crisis has created in different parts of the world. And, of course, that also means providing education, as well as economic support and, of course, support a little more broadly. Take, for example, the European Union Trust Fund for Africa. Its aim is precisely to reduce migration by eliminating its root causes. Estonia has also sought to contribute to international cooperation by helping Africa, for example, to share knowledge about the digital economy there. So these are the things that we do anyway, and we certainly don't change that direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U74	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U75	Now Enn Meri's Prime Minister is asking Jüri Ratas. Enn Meri, please! Please ask in one minute!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! Eesti Päevaleht had an interesting article on Monday where the number of state-paid jobs was discussed. The cut-off programme started in 2015 and 1700 jobs were lost in the first year. In 2016, a further 600 jobs were lost, but in 2018 only 162 jobs have been lost. My question to the Prime Minister is: why has the pace of cutting been slowed down?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U77	Thank you. The reform of the public sector, including the reduction of the number of jobs, has been pursued for a long time. If you take the 2007‐2017 period, the number of jobs in the general government sector has fallen by around 4000. In the public sector, the general government sector is also entering it, with jobs falling from 145000 to 132000 or to 133000, so that 12000 places are concentrated. At the beginning of this year, there was a very large and fundamental reform of the state that the current government has launched. County governments were lost, and so did a lot of jobs. Of course, certain functions were assigned to local authorities. We have always said that municipalities are good partners for the country. Some functions, such as supervision, came to national level. But I do not think that the Estonian state should continue to be guided by the principle that a certain percentage of jobs must be lost every year. I've met a lot of hospital executives, for example. They said that more than two years ago a plan was put on the table that so many doctors, so many sisters, should be gathered. I don't think that's right. I think the medical sector must be clearly excluded. But if we do it all the way out, then the question is, what do we do in internal security? Are police and rescue workers also hit? Here, too, I say frankly to the Riigikogu that I do not support it. I don't think it's right that we're going to cut back on internal security. And I think that, in fact, is what the state reformers have intended, so that, in medicine and internal security, we should not go into quota-based cuts.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U78	Enn Meri, please! Quickly clarifying the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U79	Thank you. Speaking of reformers: how do you comment on their claim that 50% of jobs could be lost in the public sector?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U80	Yes, they really have proposed losing 50% of jobs. But as I said just now, if we rule out, I don't know, medical facilities, if we rule out internal security, then the question arises where to cut this 50% anyway. Is that feasible? I think that, given the way our demographic situation changes, of course, it is important that the public sector becomes effective. I will bring you a parallel to business, where productivity growth is very important. So it's definitely worth watching and keeping your finger on the pulse in a good way all the time. But come now with an all-encompassing cut and say that we are taking down a certain percentage from all sides, I think our country certainly does not work according to this principle. This means much less educational establishments at one point, it means much less libraries. It's not supposed to be that simple. I don't think that's the way.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U81	Thank you, Prime Minister. Thank you, Minister of Culture. Thank you, Minister of Finance. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U82	Honourable Riigikogu! Let's start the Wednesday hearing. Is there a desire to hand over drafts and inquiries? No, it's not. Incoming check, please! 76 members of the Riigikogu are present. From the agenda. The Committee on Monetary Affairs has proposed to remove the fourth item from the agenda of today's sitting, namely the third reading of the draft law amending the Tax Administration Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws (675 SE). [[A comment from the floor.]] Can't you hear me? The microphone's working? Repeat. Can you hear me now? Supplementing the agenda. The Committee on Finance has proposed to remove the fourth item on the agenda of today's sitting, namely the third reading of the draft law amending the Tax Administration Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws (675 SE).
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U83	We're going to the Wednesday agenda. First reading of the draft law amending the Law on the implementation of the common agricultural policy of the European Union, the Law on the organisation of the fisheries market, the Structural Support Act for the period 2014 to 2020 and the Structural Support Act for the period 2007 to 2013 (687 SE). Aivar Kokk, Chairman of the Commission, will make a presentation on behalf of the initiator. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U84	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Under the draft law amending the Law implementing the common agricultural policy of the European Union, the Law on the organisation of the fisheries market, the Structural Support Act for the period 2014 to 2020 and the Structural Support Act for the period 2007 to 2013, the interest on late payment under the Act implementing the common agricultural policy of the European Union will no longer apply to the recovery of aid granted under the Act on the implementation of the common agricultural policy...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U85	Aivar Chef, please, I'm sorry! [[It's ringing the bell.]] Thank you. It's okay to go on.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U86	According to the draft, late payment is no longer applicable to the deferral of the recovery of the aid granted under the Act implementing the common agricultural policy of the European Union. As another important amendment, these laws are complemented by the principle enshrined in the case law of private law, according to which interest on late payment is not taken into account in excess of the principal debt. The Commission has discussed the subject at three meetings and decided to send the draft to the first reading today. There is a proposal to terminate the first reading and when the first reading is completed, the deadline for submitting amendments is set at ten working days in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U87	Any questions for the initiator of the bill? No, it's not. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. I'll close the negotiations. The first reading of the 687 SE is complete. I will set the deadline for the amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 21 November.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U88	First reading of the draft Act amending the Government Act (702 SE) initiated by the Estonian Free Party Group. In the name of the originator, the Külliiki Hatter will make a report. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U89	Good Chairman! Good ambassadors! This is indeed the initiative of the Free Party to amend the draft law of the Government of the Republic. The amendment concerns a change in the total number of government members. In fact, under the law in force, the government can have up to 15 members together with the Prime Minister. We propose that it be up to 12 members. Why? There are several reasons. Let us start by saying that this is definitely an amendment, which is one of the details of the state reform. The issue of state reform has been very lively on the agenda in recent weeks thanks to one foundation. They, too, have proposed the same: the number of ministers could be reduced. However, the reason why we are talking so intensively about the reform of the state is because of the decline in our population, the reduction in our income base. Our taxpayers can't just keep up the state apparatus. And one part of the state apparatus is the government. I'm going to give you a quote here. In one Postimees last week, Aimar Altosaar has said about the reform of the state that if politicians who are applying for a parliamentary seat do not go there to reform the state, he would like to know what they are going there to do at all. So this is a very important issue in our society, precisely from the perspective of the future. Secondly, we have been concerned about the very frequent exchange of ministers in the current government. I name a few names: Korb, Repinski, Aab, Sester, Tsahkna, Pomerants, Ossinovski, Palo. Ministers who have been "double office" have also resigned. The three ministries with duplicate ministerial offices are the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Ministry of Finance. This duplication began in 2014, when Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas came to power. At that time it was very understandable that he wanted to give a very clear political message in which areas he would like to set his priorities. Now Jüri Ratas has come into office with big slogans and assumptions, but basically nothing has changed. Rather, thanks to the media and people's interaction, we know that the other ministers sitting across the hall have not been able to get along with each other because they have not wanted to accept the areas of power or the areas assigned to them. This has led to a great deal of confusion. I will give an example that duplication in one ministry has led to a dissipation of competences. On the proposal of the Free Party, there has been talk on several occasions about the spread of high-speed internet access in this Chamber. One problem that we have perceived very clearly, by looking at the correspondence between the authorities on several issues, is that there is no exchange of experience in the administration of ministers working under the same roof. We have a sad experience with Estonian Air, which gave a very clear message about the state aid that can and must not be supported. But when a high-speed internet distribution measure was developed, it was like there wasn't a clue about it. It was very worrying. When discussing a reduction in the composition of the government in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, it turned out that those MPs who have worked as ministers were categorically opposed to this proposal for one reason: ministers have so much work to do to reduce the composition of the government!? This is where the question arises as to whether the Minister should be the creator of strategies and policies. Now he's also a law-maker because he gives us a lot of work ahead of us. We've taken a passive comfort position. Perhaps the minister should be the creator of strategies, not so much the solver of fires and minor everyday issues? I myself have been practicing in the ministry for a few years and I have seen that the work of ministers is really extremely intense. However, one of the objectives of our proposal is that if we share resources more rationally, optimally, it will also be possible to review the organisation of ministerial work. In view of the challenges faced by the Estonian state, the Minister could be a developer of strategies and policies rather than an extinguisher of everyday fires. He's got a whole department that can handle everyday nipple-fingering stuff. It should also be noted that our draft has a positive impact on the budget. If we lose the seats of three ministers and at least seven advisers, we would save nearly half a million euros on the payroll fund. Of course, there would also be a reduction in the various representation costs, the costs of hiring drivers, etc. Of course, we have also heard criticisms and assurances that this draft cannot be supported. One argument I've heard is that it's a pure formality. What difference does it make? I'd say it's like that. In this sense, the formality has also been the administrative reform approved in this Chamber, which consisted in changing borders. What did we really want in the case of administrative reform? We certainly wanted a discussion on the revenue base supporting the task of local governments, which was not wanted. This draft provides an opportunity to hold a substantive debate, which is the role of ministers. After all, the Riigikogu confirms the composition of the government, and the political groups want to appoint the best candidates, so that the administration of the state is more effective, more meaningful and more effective for the future of the Estonian people. The following critical argument, which has been put forward, is that it is possible to form a smaller composition now. The law states that there must be no more than 15 members in the government. This is where I think human greed comes into play, really. It will be much easier to form a coalition if all coalition partners receive the maximum recommendation. However, this does not give rise to a debate on the substance of what the role of one or another minister could play in four years. I would argue that, if we have a lower maximum number of members in place, the coalition is automatically oriented towards setting more specific and targeted targets and resolving the issue of manning ministerial positions more effectively. At the moment, the membership seems overexploited. If you read the government's opinion on our bill, I did have a warning light on. Why? This answer perpetuates the supremacy of executive power over legislative power. It is said very clearly that the Prime Minister must be A and O at the formation of the government, but we will appoint the government in this Chamber! Therefore, our role must also be more effective in deciding what could be the ceiling of the size of the composition. When the bill was discussed, one of its weaknesses came out. We have not considered in the group what would be the date of entry into force. We are certainly prepared to support the view that the amendment will not enter into force during this term of office, but when the new government takes office. That time limit would be very clear. I also note that the OECD has studied the Estonian government culture and its peculiarity very thoroughly in various years. Several reports have been made on our governance of the state. One report was made in 2011, but we read it as if it were one-to-one about Estonia today. Indeed, we have been shy and very modest in bringing about changes in government. One problem is, as we have been told, that we are very little targeted and very fragmented in our activities. Our draft does not take these paragraphs from the Law of the Government of the Republic, which might make this proposal even more specific. I am thinking, in particular, of a section that lists specific ministries. Of course, in the long term, we could also talk about the possible merger of ministries. For years, from the elections to the elections, it has been said that rural and environmental policy could lead to a single roof, as these target groups are unfortunately quite small compared to other areas. I very much hope that it will be found that these dubious ministerial positions are not necessary. We have enough specialists, we have enough officials in ministries to jointly manage these areas with the help of staff. The minister can't and doesn't have to be all-knowing, he's team leader. Finland brought the 2015 elections to them at the same time as we had the exception. We visited the State Reform Problem Committee there. They have a Committee on the Future since 1992 in Parliament, the last leaders of which have become prime ministers. Prime Minister Sipilä has applied a method which has not been implemented in Finland so far and which Estonia could also think about: they have defined four major goals in the agreement of the government coalition in four years, which should certainly be achieved. They have given up a very specific so-called Excel chart. At least every quarter, the members of the government have strategic discussions to review how the four or five major priorities are considered and respond accordingly by making the necessary changes. It could also give us a boost to think about how the country could be governed differently, more operationally and more targetedly. In Finland, we have the same problems at the door. The biggest problem is the ageing of the population and how to cope with its effects. Unfortunately, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs did not support the completion of the first reading of the draft. But I very much ask you not to take this decision into account and to stop reading first. Society expects changes in government. We have given you the opportunity to continue to propose possible solutions to the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U90	Questions to the representative of the initiators. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U91	Thank you, good manager. All right! First of all, you should correct the error in your speech. No ministers are approved by the Riigikogu; the Riigikogu gives the candidate Prime Minister the power to form a government. We do not have any direct role to play here; we do not vote here on whether or not anyone will become a minister. But I'm asking you, why would it be good to have 12, not 13 or 11 ministers or some other number? When we talk about cost savings, the number of ministers is now 15, the number of ministerial officials is about 3500. The number of people paid for the taxpayer's money is approaching 150,000. Maybe we could start to lay off where there are so many people, not make, like you said, formal decisions here. I'd still do what I really need to do. And the other way around...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U92	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U93	Thank you, Aivar! I know that in the Committee on State Reform, you are one of the most ardent fighters claiming that the state's costs must be reduced. But let's start with this! We've got government government upstairs for some reason. So let's start by setting an example! We can also, of course, reduce the composition of the Riigikogu if it is a political agreement. Well, the most brutal thing to say is that the fish is starting to rot in the head. When we get our minds straightened out, we can also bring about changes in our substructures. That's why I'd make bolder decisions. Why 12? This figure is based on political considerations: the government coalitions have so far formed mainly three parties and 12 is a beautiful number, divisible by three.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U94	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U95	Thank you. On the one hand, it is not, of course, nice for ministers to change like in a message print every little bit. But I'm not quite sure the reason is because the rules are wrong. I believe that the reason is a little bit that all ministers may not have done their job quite well. When we look at the reasons why ministers have changed, we can see that they have certainly not come from the law in any way. It's more like the other side of the game. As a minister, Arto Aas, as an example, did a very thorough job in resolving the same question that you dealt with the questioner. He carried the administrative reform to the finish line very successfully, and at that time the number of people paid by the state fell by 1500 in one year. Since then, I can no longer count as three or four ministers in the same field and, frankly, no one has stood out with anything special. May they all forgive me, but that's what it looks like. Are you willing to admit that, in fact, very much depends on the minister's personality?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U96	Thank you. Of course, much depends on the person, his motivation, his ability to set goals and achieve them. In addition to your comment, if eight ministers have changed in a short time, it will certainly be about people's ability and also about people's tiredness. We can see that political parties have been struggling to find new people in these positions. Some choices seem bulged and the point disappears: What are they going to do, just formally fill the place or? It's not normal. I also pointed out at the end of my presentation that, of course, we could discuss our proposal whether we need so many ministries. At the same time, it raises the question of whether more flexibility could be given to the establishment of ministerial offices which the coalition considers to be appropriate and what society needs on the ground. It would also be a sensible debate that we could have here.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U97	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U98	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear waitress, Here it was suggested that the hall could twist the Commission's decision and support the further processing of the draft. I'd be happy to support that. Only if you offer to bring someone together, you have to prove that the people who are being laid off are not necessary. Whether they duplicate each other's work or their workload is so low that this position is not needed at all. That's the decisive points, isn't it? Is it possible for you, in the case of the three ministries you are talking about, to highlight such facts?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U99	Thank you. The issue of duplication is certainly mainly in the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. The Free Party is in a blissful position in the sense that it does not have an immediate experience of the government coalition, nor does it have a ministerial experience. We can look at it like a person on the street. People are run away from one door to another when, in fact, all information about services can be obtained from one window, figuratively speaking. At the moment, it is unclear why we have the position of Minister of Public Administration. A number of previous ministers have said that if the administrative reform has been carried out and on Friday there will be a conference on its first anniversary, then the fire will be extinguished. To date, this fire has not been extinguished, although we do not understand what the functions that the Minister of Public Administration performs are. We have different reports. In spring, the Centre for Development Monitoring, which operates at the Riigikogu, made its report. Recently, a thematic report prepared by the Parliament's Analysis Department on local government was also distributed to the MPs. It can be seen that the capacity of our local governments, the participation of local governments in the development of policies, has not improved one gram, let alone the major changes that could be made to solve the issue of creating a revenue base. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U100	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U101	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, There is, of course, a rational point in this bill. Indeed, the population is decreasing and everything must become more rational and rational. But you have a statement in this political background that over the years, the Minister has become the administrator of the Ministry instead of the creator of the political vision. This led me to wonder whether you could give examples of the re-independence in Estonian history of which ministers were real vision-makers. If you don't mind.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U102	Thank you. The vision was certainly created in the 1990s when our country was built. I don't think our country would be like this now if it weren't for the brave men and women who were then serving as ministers. The answer to whether the minister is an administrator was, in my opinion, given by Mr Ossinovski in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs when he said that he simply did not have time to deal with strategic long-term issues, because it was constantly necessary to deal with the elimination of fires. Therefore, it is not even possible to discuss a reduction in the number of ministers at all. I don't think that's an argument. I think it would be better to be open and think about what could be done differently, not how to get stuck in the Stone Age.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U103	Siret Eagle-Repinski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U104	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! This bill is driven by the fact that Estonia's population is decreasing. But I hope that you have, however, read the statistics published last week and last week, according to which the Estonian population actually grew by 3000 people last year thanks to immigrants. But that's not what I want to ask. You have pointed out that the Ministry of Rural Affairs and the Environment must, above all, be united because their target groups are small. Was it suddenly a language value or does the Free Party consider that maintaining life on land and protecting the natural environment are not sufficiently priority objectives?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U105	Thank you for your question. I expressed the views that have been voiced during the various campaign periods and discussions. And it's been unfortunately, I insist, unfortunately! One of the most resonant balconies. The share of this market in GDP has been taken into account. I myself am quite a rural and environmental person, and it also makes me a little sad that these categories are thought of. But if I've been in the ministry myself and I'm told that the minister doesn't have time to communicate with this NGO because there are 20 members, but there are 200 members in the second, both talking about the same thing, then I think it is even worse to humiliate the Estonian people.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U106	Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U107	Thank you, Chairman. A good colleague as a waitress! My questions come from your answers, not so much from the bill. Moving towards zero bureaucracy is crucial. I agree with you completely on that, like probably a lot of people in this hall. Speaking of this, Jaak Aaviksoo used a very good metaphor in the summer debate when he said it was emptying drawers. But it was as if your answers were that we should look at the reduction of the entire public sector. And I'm asking now. In my opinion, there should certainly be teachers, police, rescuers, social protection workers and many other people who offer vital and other essential services. Do you share that view? My second question stems from the fact that you called on us to bend the decision of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. How do you imagine that now, and how does it relate to the principles of democracy recognised by you at least in words? We're actually free to make our decisions here.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U108	Thank you. Yes, the Free Party is of the opinion that we cannot reduce the number of medical workers, teachers and people working in the field of internal protection. My main position in Parliament is in the Committee on Legal Affairs, and we see that the lack of patrols clearly affects what is happening to us in traffic. So cutting is absolutely not justified. However, in this context, we are talking about state-aid ministries, their agencies, foundations, NGOs. These are all such entities that create bureaucracy and help it flourish. After all, our future is fortunate or unfortunately, it is a question of estimates that we must be able to address and be a good partner to more and more citizens in information technology. This is what Raivo Vare has called one window politics. But in order for all of this to happen, we need to start with people and show the maximum limit we are talking about today. As for your second comment, we are here to decide. The Commission may also be wrong. But the big hall couldn't be wrong.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U109	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U110	Thank you. Good waitress! I would, of course, be very careful to extrapolate an example and, in particular, to bring Mr Ossinovski as a minister's standard. [[The Hatter will laugh.]] I understand that he once did not have time to deal with the strategy papers. But before him there were a number of ministers and some of them had a half-larger portfolio, but they still had time to deal with strategic choices. There's a former minister like that sitting behind you right now. Ossinovski also had no time to represent Estonia in Europe, but there are the same officials who have participated in all the meetings. In general, I think that one example cannot be used to judge all Estonian ministers. But here's my question. Are you, in principle, prepared to accept this approach, that if there is a government that wants to take some area, such as foreign trade or any other area, to a whole new level and make something better there so that there might be an opportunity, for example, to create a foreign trade minister position when such a priority is placed?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U111	Yeah. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U112	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U113	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good waitress! We were talking about the problems, the depopulation. And the shortage of population in Estonia is indeed a problem. What do you think, maybe we could lose the position of Minister of Public Administration and instead re-establish the position of Minister of Population, as it was until 2009?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U114	Thank you. It would make sense if we could give the Minister's office some substance.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U115	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U116	Thank you, Mr President. Very honorable waitress! Agriculture, together with the food industry, accounts for almost 9 to 10% of GDP, so it is actually the target group. And the environment, in my opinion, is a matter that concerns our whole understanding of the future. So maybe it's right to ask whether it makes sense to put these two ministries together in this light and in this knowledge. They may suffer both sides. But you indicated that we should make a decision here by the time the elections have taken place and a new political coalition is created. This new coalition can also decide how many ministers there are in the government. Do you not think that the people have given us a mandate so that we do not set these limits? It is precisely to be flexible and effective and to react quickly. This example of Evgen was probably not the best, because in my opinion his top priority was the leadership of the party. At least I think that's what he said to the public. Would the flexibility that I believe is possible in a small country not be very reasonable?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U117	Thank you. You mentioned quite a few bottlenecks or issues that should be discussed. And one of the arguments of our proposal is that flexibility in the implementation of sectoral policies must be discussed. We should not limit our flexibility to having either 10 or 15 ministers. What matters is what these ministers do, how they take our society, our country forward, not who sits in these chairs, whether, for example, the chairman of a party should be in the government. We have automatically become a member of the cabinet of many party presidents, but is that reasonable? If we read different reports, we can understand that we lack flexibility precisely in our ability to set goals and implement them operationally. Often the automatic answer comes that one thing or another cannot be done, for it has not been the custom. We need a new template of thinking to push for a different approach.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U118	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U119	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! My good colleague asked you where you came to realize that the Ministry of Rural Affairs and the Environment has a small area of activity and that the people they affect are few. You said it was claimed during campaigns. Can you specify who and what campaigns have led to the understanding that environmental and rural issues are of little importance?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U120	Thank you. This is certainly not of minor importance. However, the possibility of joining the two ministries has been discussed, for example, during the elections of the Riigikogu in 2007. After that, I began working as an advisor to the Minister for Agriculture, and this idea rang through a number of meetings and other debates. According to my memory, this was also on the agenda for the 2011 elections. Then I was very directly, also legally involved with the IRL, who, among themselves, held these debates on the initiative of Helir-Valdor Seeder at the time. So I have been involved in discussions on this subject, but there has never been a clear decision in these debates. These are the discussions that remain.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U121	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U122	Good manager! Good waitress! When Jüri Raidla came up with his ten proposals some time ago, he said that he could reduce the number of officials by 15%. Now he's become much more radical. A few days ago, when we spoke to him, he said that he could handle a thousand officials throughout the ministry. What do you think of that? The current proposal is 12, 11 or 13 ministers, but maybe we should start at the bottom. Why don't we get the office together pretty good?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U123	Thank you. As far as I understand the proposal made by the National Reform Foundation, they would like to create a large super ministry in Estonia. And maybe one super ministry structure wouldn't fit more than a thousand people. At the same time, the question arises as to whether policies in different areas will not be dissipated at all. Will we then have the Prime Minister's supremacy, which will drastically reduce the proportion of parliamentary power? How could this solution affect Parliament's work? Do we need committees at all? Such utopian questions and thoughts arise from the offer of this solution. I hear they're talking about 50% of the civil servants' redundancies now, not 15%. This is an ambitious challenge that can be approached from the top, from the level of government and parliament as well as from the bottom, from the level of the official body, from the level of the plaintiff.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U124	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U125	Good manager! Good waitress! I'm impressed by this big government house and why not 1,000 officials. Or maybe there could be 700 officials, and the rest could be sent to a 'production job'. But I couldn't help but notice from your report that you're concerned about the rapid change of ministers. It is not in the bill, but should there be any sense of censorship that, when the Minister is appointed, he must not be touched at any time?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U126	Thank you. Of course, the close change of ministers is worrying. Life has shown that they have left the government for very different reasons. Who has not understood that he should be a patriot of the Republic of Estonia and acknowledge the allied relations of the state, who have been caught by unworthy behaviour, etc. And there are people who have said that I'm not bothered anymore, that I can't handle this job. It is, I think, a better and fairer resignation than one that is born as a result of the work of the National Audit Office or any other institution, when it has become apparent that power has been abused in the light of personal interests. Personally, I cannot imagine that we are going to appoint or remove ministers on the basis of an à la CV. The important thing is that the minister knows why he's in this position. I very much support the proposal by the National Reform Foundation that, before the Minister is appointed, he should be made a professional hearing committee and/or brought to this Chamber in order to involve more opposition ambassadors in the dialogue. George Ratas promised it six months ago, but today he doesn't remember anything. This would certainly allow us to see the whole picture of society and the needs of society better than the current closed system.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U127	Thank you, Küllik's Hatter! There are no further questions for the initiator's representative. The report shall be made by Jaak Madison on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U128	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, This very important draft was discussed twice by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. For the first time on 24 September, when there was a substantive debate on the draft and all the members of the Commission, with the exception of Lauri Luik and the speaker, took part in the meeting. The debate was very meaningful. The question was raised as to what the purpose of the draft is. Several members of the Commission, such as Evgeni Ossinovski, Marko Pomerants, Helmut Hallemaa and Peep Aru, did not consider it reasonable to set a ceiling of 12 ministers. Reference was made to the current situation where the Riigikogu has an indirect opportunity to determine how many ministers may be in government. After all, the Riigikogu gives the Prime Minister the power to draw up a government, he comes to this Chamber to ask for a mandate. A very meaningful debate ended with procedural decisions. It was decided to propose that the draft be put on the agenda by 9 October. Six members of the Commission voted in favour, one against and no abstentions. On that occasion, Mr Pomerants, the chairman of the committee, was appointed rapporteur. However, the initiators of the draft act wrongly withdrew the draft on 26 September, two days after the Commission meeting, and handed it over again on 27 September. Consequently, the same draft was again on the Commission's agenda on 22 October. Jüri Adams, Hanno Pevkur, Helmut Hallemaa, Jaak Madison, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Lauri Luik, Mikhail Korb, Peep Aru and Tiit Terik took part in the meeting. There was no substantive debate as it had already taken place on 24 September. Only procedural decisions were taken: to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 6 November (consensual decision) and to propose that the draft be rejected at first reading. Hanno Pevkur, Helmut Hallemaa, Marko Pomerants and Mikhail Korb voted in favour, against Jaak Madison and Jüri Adams with the abstentions of Lauri Luik. It was decided to appoint Mr Jaak Madison, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs as rapporteur. This decision was also consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U129	Questions for the Commission's rapporteur. There aren't any. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Reform Party Group in Taavi Kõiva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U130	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Even if there were a desire to criticise the government on this draft too, and this government undoubtedly deserves criticism, on this particular subject I call for a look beyond the specific period of government to see the big picture. In my opinion, it is very important that any government that takes office can implement its political priorities as flexibly as possible and as efficiently as possible and can manage the Estonian state as best possible. Its assumption is also that the members of the government will be placed under their authority precisely those areas for which a particular portfolio should be held accountable. And in turn, the assumption is that the number of ministers may sometimes be smaller and sometimes higher. I certainly do not think that the current limit of 15 is too large or too small. And I also do not really find that the number, how many ministers we have, is among the main issues in the life of the Estonian state at all. I am very sympathized by the fact that the National Reform Foundation has put various proposals on the table. This encourages a rather sleepy government or government that has paused the government to think a little about a lot of matters. But the negative is that the problems that are really important in Estonian society are so overshadowed. This tax system, which bears the name of Kört-Pärtli, would not have been missed if there were one fewer ministers. This would hardly have interfered with the office of the Minister for Finance to present this system to the government. Also, it would hardly have been possible to increase the rate of excise duty by 2,24 times over a little over a year if one or two ministers were less. So the question is probably whether specific ministers are doing their job well, whether a particular government has the ambition to do great things and the vision to see, not so much whether there are a few fewer ministers or two more. Now the background. We are well aware that Estonia is a member of the European Union from the beginning of May 2014. What did it change? For all ministers or, let's say, for most ministers, the change is that Estonia is not only responsible for the policy being pursued in its own country, but, for example, the Estonian Minister for Rural Affairs is also responsible for the agricultural policy being pursued at European Union level. We have been given a rare opportunity to speak up and take decisions on behalf of 500 million people, decisions that affect the future of 500 million people. And I see that, in the case of the government currently in office, even those ministers who do not have a very large portfolio to manage at home have problems attending meetings and meetings of the Council of Europe. I find that very regrettable. In this way, we will give the opportunity to have a say in European affairs, in creating Europe's future. But humanly speaking, if, for example, the Minister for Social Affairs had a large portfolio and also the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications had a large portfolio, there would be an unreasonable number of the councils they should belong to. For this reason alone, the distribution of these portfolios is justified. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U131	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U132	However, Estonia's international representation is certainly not the only issue. As Minister of Social Affairs, I was able to manage a situation in which about half of the Estonian state budget was my responsibility. And, of course, I consider myself an exceptionally capable and good and sympathetic person, but as a principle, I do not consider it reasonable that one member of the government is responsible for half the budget and all the rest of it. It is simply not proportionate, whether it is a responsible minister as capable or sympathetic or nice as a person. He's also with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. If the government still wants to give priority to foreign trade, of which the Estonian economy, as we know, depends very much on our economic growth, is based on exports, then the government must be able to make a particular minister deal with this issue systematically. In my opinion, now that the government in office has lost the position of Minister for Foreign Trade, the activity in dealing with this issue has significantly decreased. Neither do other ministers have even a comparable number of business delegation visits; there is no active sales activity in representing Estonia. And I see it as a problem. Of course, I fully accept that, if another government with priorities elsewhere comes into office in the future, this government must also have the opportunity to appoint a minister in a particular important area to implement its priorities. I have never regretted the fact that another government, led by me, created a minister of state administration. To this end, a portfolio was raised from different ministries and the creation of this ministerial position was very effective. Before that, administrative reform had been sought for almost 20 years, but never beyond the plans. Now it's done. And it played a very large part in the fact that a good minister came into office, the portfolio was properly put together and the minister was able to run this process in cooperation with a very strong team. The same minister also dragged the country's effectiveness programme, which was the subject of today, which was also clearly useful. So my sense is that it is necessary to create such portfolios and set priorities. Nor have I regretted for a moment that during my reign, the Ministry of Agriculture became the Ministry of Rural Affairs, where specialists and departments in the field of regional affairs were handed over to strengthen the Ministry. I believe that we all have reason to see the wider rural area, not just the agricultural sector. I do not want to reduce the importance of agriculture at all, but it is very necessary to deal with rural areas more widely. If the Minister is responsible for the whole rural area, it will also set clearer limits. In conclusion, I would like to say that the number of ministers does not have to be the main topic that the Estonian Parliament is dealing with. I think that we should be rightly critical of the actions of specific ministers. Whether there are 12 or 15 in office, you need to be critical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U133	On behalf of the faction of the Mikhail Stalnukhin Central Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U134	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, There will be no criticism in my speech and no policy. I'm talking about other things. First of all, the magic of numbers. 20 years ago, when I spent the first months here, I was looking around hard to figure out what I was doing. And in some six months, I realized that there really are those who pull the basic workload. Not by chance, these people either run committees or are in the leadership of their political groups, etc. Well, you can see that clearly now, but then you could see it even better, because most of the drafts were signed by the people who drafted them. And then it was customary for the members of the Riigikogu themselves to write drafts. And, of course, I had an idea, and I went to see my then life teacher, who educated me here in the Riigikogu, Olev Raju. And I asked why we're in this hall 101 when we actually work hard, well, let's say 30. Why does it have to be 101? Let's do a 30-member parliament like in Iceland, and that's it. But Olev told me whether the people who are coming here are going to pass some sort of check on whether they meet psychological or professional requirements or whether there are some criteria. It won't! People decide who sits in this hall and who doesn't sit. And if we suddenly decide to move the number of Members to 31 here, it may be that there are not 31 toilers, but ten of them. The proportion remains the same. Yes, the magic of numbers is at first sight a very charming thing. Let's cut it down, and then it'll get cheaper. It's not really like that. That's one side of it. And the other side. I have unfortunately been forced to deal with several redundancies in my city in 2009 and 2010. I worked as Chairman of the Council at the time, it was years of crisis. The Ansip government pulled a large part of our budget from our pockets, and we had no choice but to gather people. But then it didn't look like there's too many people out there, and we're gonna take it down by four, no matter what the principle. People's responsibilities were undertaken, compared, checked working time, looked at who was involved in what, whether they crossed the responsibilities of someone who gave some result who did not. As a result, we succeeded in meeting the new criteria that we had been given by concentrating the budget. We did a lay-off assignment, but that's right. If anyone tells me that any minister is a little busy, that look at his work schedule, it turns out he doesn't work eight hours a day, no no no! In fact, I'm not just talking about this coalition, I'm talking about previous coalitions, as many as there have been. Politically, I can regard them no matter what the negative, but the fact that ministers are loaded more than they are allowed in normal life, 41 hours a week, that is clear. Show me that some ministers are not burdened or that two ministers are carrying out the same task, doing the same thing! Then I agree with you that one of them needs to be consolidated. However, such arguments cannot be accepted by the Centre Party Group in such a simple campaign to reduce the number of ministers. We do not support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U135	The general principles of the draft law will continue to be discussed by Jüri Adams as a representative of the Estonian Free Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U136	Mr President of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The last words that former Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas said about this remote control were that the number of ministers is not the most important thing to talk about, but that we need to be critical. So I am not talking much about the number of ministers in my speech, but I am trying to be critical. I'm asking for more time now!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U137	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U138	The problem of the size of the Estonian government actually started in the autumn of 1992. Before that, during the Soviet Estonian era, there was a body called the Soviet government of Estonia, but it certainly did not cover the whole scope of government in Estonia. It is estimated that about half of the things that were made in Estonia were made to them either directly from Moscow or from the various local representatives of the Moscow Central Authorities. We have no one, at least I have not found that we have written a study of how this situation has gone from this situation to the present situation. In any case, I think that Edgar Savisaar's government did not yet control Estonia as a whole. My exposure to this problem began at the end of September 1992 or at the beginning of October when a government programme for the Mart Laar government began. There, too, was the question of the necessity and reform of government agencies. We had a pre-war experience where there were relatively few ministries in Estonia. The smallest government in Estonia, as far as I know, has been six ministers. Some ministers ruled several ministries, and the Prime Minister also had his own ministry to rule. In the autumn of 1992, we had a situation where some of them were called ministry, some of which were different in terms of governing the state between 25 and 30 people with different names. They needed to be brought together as the government of the Republic of Estonia. And then this goal was taken, a political agreement was made, so be it that in Estonia's future government there will be no more than 15 people in total with the Prime Minister. And the number of ministries was also decided, probably it was 12 then, I didn't have time to look it up right now. But what is important is that some of the ministers were reserved for those who could in the future become a non-portfolio minister or ministers, so they were called. They did not run any particular ministry. Almost 30 years have passed, and the decisions of that time have endured exceptionally well. So far, there has been no need to change anything. The number of ministries has moved in these years plus or minus one on both sides. At that point in time, the government's concentration in the agreed ministries took place in about three-quarters of a year. It is important to mention this now because, at the moment, ministries are completely different than they were at the time. Those people who call themselves the State Reform Foundation are now talking about changing the number of ministries here and there, as if it were as easy as in the first time in the Republic of Estonia. Then it was just necessary to change some labels and dozens of people had a couple of stenographers, some typists, and some archive officials needed to change the working space. There's no such thing anymore. Today's Ministry is the kind of structure that centers on server and computer programs. IT personnel are required to serve software and equipment. The creation of a real new ministry, even if it is politically decided, would take quite a while. But the elimination of some, the reduction of the number of ministries, should probably be the political force behind it, planning such a thing two or three years in advance, and then carrying out it if it really needs and has the strength. So I think that those people who are talking here about a significant reduction in the number of ministries are likely to have to be said that they are not competent. Let's say it really softly. Now, if we go back to the number of ministers, the truth is that there are people in the cabinet who have the right to vote. A person with such voting rights has been appointed Minister. However, I have learned that since we joined the European Union, the Estonian government has stopped voting, which was quite common before the European Union. And in this case, it really doesn't matter how many ministers there are in the government. But it is a mistake that we have two people in one ministry who have both confused ministerial titles, and it is not clear what the relationship of power is between them. It is quite bad of itself, because it paralyzes one line of work, which at least young politicians don't usually think about, but administrative lawyers should think about it. And that's how it's monitored. The matters of supervision have gone a long way with regard to the so-called administrative reform, and it will continue. In my opinion, the current main problem in Estonia's governance is not the number of ministers or the number of ministries, but the fact that we have become a super ministry in charge of all other ministries and that the staff of other ministries has actually been demoralised. Jaak Jõõürt published a very important article about why more than one ministry is needed for society and the state about a week ago. Read it, please! I'll call you up.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U139	No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to reject the draft at first reading 702. This will take place in about a minute after the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the commission's proposal to reject the draft law amending the Government Act 702 at first reading, initiated by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. Please take a stand and vote. 53 Members voted in favour of the proposal, with 12 votes against, with 1 abstention. The Governing Commission's proposal was supported. Bill 702 has been rejected at first reading and falls out of the Riigikogu proceedings.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U140	First reading of the draft Act amending the Act on the Status of Members of the Riigikogu (669 SE) initiated by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. Please waitress Andres Herkel, member of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U141	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! This draft we have initiated can, in principle, be seen in conjunction with other drafts relating to austerity at the level of political governance. I am thinking of both the previous draft and, some time ago, the issue of reducing the cost benefits discussed here and reducing the funding of political parties. However, the initiation of a specific draft is related to the fact that at the beginning of the work of the current Riigikogu, after we had worked together for one year, the problem was that the MPs voluntarily resigned from the Riigikogu and several of us left the Riigikogu. For the second time, we noticed this problem last summer, when several members of the Riigikogu also decided voluntarily to waive their mandate. We believe that this system of benefits that we have put in place should not be such that it favours such departure from the Riigikogu. Our draft suggests that if a member of the Riigikogu resigns, he or she will only be compensated if he or she was a member of the Riigikogu for at least two years. In the current version, one year is enough. We suggest that the amount of compensation in this case is one month's salary for a member of the Riigikogu, which is currently three months' salary. The Riigikogu is the representative body of the Estonian people. The work of the members of the Riigikogu, the way in which it works and the rights and responsibilities attached to its status actually depend on the credibility of the entire institution. Such voluntary departures, which do not have a clear motivation, call into question the credibility of the electoral mandate, and this certainly undermines our credibility. A separate question is how this credibility should even relate to the term'reimbursement' used here. What is reimbursed if a member of the Riigikogu has decided to resign from office of his own accord? A similar draft was defended here some time ago by our member, Andres Ammas, who had left the group. I counted his call at the time. One motive that sounded in defending an analogous bill in 2016 was that, since many members of the Riigikogu decided to leave the Riigikogu at the beginning of the work, the question arose of the extent to which this severance grant is compensation or compensation. Andres Ammas came to the conclusion that it would be more honest to call it a gift. Such a procedure for granting the severance grant does not correspond to the one applicable to employment relationships arising under the Civil Service Act or the Employment Contracts Act. Officials and private sector workers cannot enjoy the same right if they decide to leave work of their own accord. Yes, the unemployment fund allows for its share of unemployment insurance, but there is no such separate benefit for other occupations. And the other half of the problem. According to the Constitution, the members of the Riigikogu are exercising power on the basis of the mandate of the people, and so they are subject to very high and legitimate public expectations. It goes along with the mandate given by the people. A member of the Riigikogu cannot be seen as a normal employee, who may one day have the idea of simply leaving this office and going back to the old job or to a new place. A member of the Riigikogu is primarily expected to use his mandate with dignity and not leave without good reason. And if he does, he must be able to reasonably plan his income in the event of a free-will departure. I am not going to name names here, but there have been many of these departures in the Riigikogu, how to say, unreasonablely, and also the credibility of the mandate. As I pointed out above, it has been two waves. The first wave came as soon as one year was completed, i.e. there was an opportunity to receive severance benefit, and the second occurred this summer, just after the Riigikogu sessions ended and the summer break began. The right number of members of the Riigikogu decided to leave before the elections arrived. In many cases, it was a new job, mostly in the municipal system, but also elsewhere. We believe that, in this case, if any compensation is paid, a month's salary will certainly be sufficient. With this, the principles of this draft and the motivation to present it have been mediated, I look forward to questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U142	The round of questions begins with Mikhail Stalnukhin. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U143	Thank you. Dear waitress, I have to admit, my worldview was a huge blow right now. I suddenly discovered that people are coming to the Riigikogu to be here for a year and after three months of pay compensation. This is, of course, an amazing discovery for me. But let's talk about numbers. You have certainly calculated that if your system had been in force for the last four years instead of now, what would have been the savings in the state budget in four years? How much is that?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U144	I don't quite know what to say. I don't have an overview of all these departures. In fact, it should also be taken into account that the Act on the status of a member of the Riigikogu also says that this allowance is not paid if another state office is left. So these cases should also be mentioned separately. The motive for presenting this draft is certainly not the desire to save public money in the first place. Let's say that the savings are very, very small in relation to the ratio, but certainly this bill has important moral significance. We wish to make the departure from the Riigikogu more deliberate and to make the mandate of a member of the Riigikogu more credible.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U145	Valdo Randpere.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U146	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress Andres! You started your presentation by saying there was a problem: people started leaving in spring, then another problem came up, people started leaving in autumn. And then you got to that problem that they got the money. I was wondering what the real problem was. Is it that people are leaving? I don't see the problem. I'm gonna look around this hall, and I'm gonna find somebody else to leave, there's no problem. Some people wouldn't want to leave, it would be great. But what kind of problem do you really solve? Or do you really think there are a category of people whose business plan is to apply to the Riigikogu every four years and then get out of there as soon as possible because the benefit is three or six months' salary? What kind of problem are you really solving here?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U147	Thank you, Mr. Randpere. I think that this issue is much deeper than you are trying to attribute with your questioning right now. And it's much deeper than the individual analysis of these leavers, one by one, why they did it and why it's bad. I believe that there are a lot of problems here that relate, among other things, to the work of our Riigikogu, which is related to the fact that people who have actually received the mandate of a member of the Riigikogu are quite quickly disappointed in reality. What are the reasons for this disappointment? Is this a 'group dictation' that makes people not exactly make the decisions they want to make? Is that an overestimation of your own abilities? Is it not possible to go along with this working environment, working culture and perhaps a rather common cynical attitude, to remain a silent ambassador, or even to try to make themselves heard, it is seen that the proposals do not find consideration, realization or understanding? On a human level, these problems may actually be so much more than just this exit fee and why a person is going. However, in our view, it is not understandable why, unlike other public authorities, i.e. public sector agencies and also private sector agencies, this is a separate type of compensation that comes with voluntary departure. Such compensation should not motivate such departure, and the justification for its existence in itself is doubtful. I would, of course, like to say all this to the author of the question, but since he has left the Chamber, I will finish. This reasoning, however, could go on for a long, long time: why this is so, why this kind of departure is bad, and what are perhaps the effects of a non-human working environment that make us feel like we are here in some non-essential decision-making role. And for some reason, many lack the desire and willingness to resist it. But since Mr. Randpere has left, I'm just gonna stop there.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U148	Please, Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U149	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Whenever you come into this room with these so-called democratic packages, I am very surprised. I'm glad you're not disappointed in the Riigikogu and you've lasted so long. But I don't understand that leaving allowance, what kind of moral meaning does it have. I'll ask you straight then. If suddenly you are not elected to the next Riigikogu, will you accept the six-month pay severance benefit or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U150	Thank you. The severance benefit payable for six months is not the subject of this bill. The object of this bill is the compensation that will be paid if a member of the Riigikogu voluntarily decides to waive the mandate. It is not because the mandate is exhausted, but for some other reason that half of the Riigikogu is left, in essence, abandoned to carry out its mandate. If I or you or anyone else in this Chamber is not re-elected to the Riigikogu in the next elections, this does not mean that we have not quite completed our mandate so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U151	Yes, the parliamentary symphony of departure begins on 4 March and its author is not Haydn, but the Estonian people. Please, Siret Eagle-Repinski!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U152	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! When you were developing the draft, you certainly looked into the practices of other countries as well. My question is, how Finland or Latvia, for example, will behave when these benefits are paid. I'm asking for an answer!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U153	Thank you, Honourable Asker. I have to admit, I'm not really into the way they're acting. In my opinion, any sensible state should act in such a way that it does not favour the election of representatives of the people giving up their mandate halfway. And that's what the bill's about. If the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has an idea or a desire to examine the practice of other countries, for example, whether people are being rewarded for it, then the Committee on Constitutional Affairs can certainly do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U154	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U155	Good manager! Good waitress! I heard the sentence where you said people were leaving here for different reasons, one doesn't like one and the other. But you're one of the few people here with a very long experience, and so the right man to say it. Please list these main reasons why the Riigikogu is voluntarily leaving the Riigikogu! What's not right here? Line up those dots!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U156	Thank you, Honourable Asker. A small sociological or socio-psychological study is likely necessary to put them in line. I'm sure that's what I've got and I don't have a chance. But when I answered one of the previous questions, I marked that there are factors that can lead to a deep disappointment for an active person after he has worked in the Riigikogu for one year or a little more. He discovers that he has the ability to influence processes. There is a dictation of a majority of a political group, or perhaps not even a dictatorship of a majority, which may also be a dictation of a coalition agreement or agreements concluded in a political party. This is extremely burdensome, creating contradictions with internal convictions. All these reasons may be at stake, and they may also be viewed with empathy. But this does not mean that the system itself, with its own compensation or gift, should encourage such a party to leave the road. At this point, I recall the reply of one of my current members of the Riigikogu to a question related to the proposal of the National Reform Foundation mentioned in one of the previous drafts, which proposed rotation of the delegates. This senior colleague said that, in fact, those members of the Riigikogu who are at least the third members of this Chamber are best represented in the problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U157	Peter Ernits, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U158	Good manager! Good waitress! I didn't ask you for a sociological study, I asked you about your gut feeling as a very long-time Member. I asked you to line up these reasons according to your mysterious sense of hunch. Is it the political group's dictatorship or the fact that the work here is inefficient or what? That's my question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U159	Thank you, Mr. Ernits. I kind of answered by the feeling of my stomach. If I try to formulate it a little differently, then in the same way, voters will certainly expect politicians, including the Riigikogu, to be very much faster than this has actually been achieved. And the other aspect of this matter is that the members of the Riigikogu, who have been elected here, also expect a much faster performance and greater efficiency from their work than what is actually possible. I assume, at least in part, these departures have also been linked to such frustration.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U160	Thank you very much, dear waitress. You can leave this remote now. Helmut Hallemaa, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, will make a presentation on behalf of the commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U161	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Exactly, I arrived here on the remote to give an overview of the debate in committee as a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. There was a talk about when problems arose and when they piled up, but it led to the fact that on August 22, the Free Party presented this draft. Draft 669 was at first reading in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 23 October. Jüri Adams, Hanno Pevkur, Helmut Hallemaa, Mikhail Korb and Tiit Terik attended the committee and there were four members: Jaak Madison, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Lauri Luik and Peep Aru. Herkel, the rapporteur, has already opened the main contents of the draft very nicely. In fact, this is two proposals: a voluntary waiver from the mandate of the Riigikogu could lead to a downward shift in the payment of compensation, i.e. not to pay the amount of three months' salary under the current law, but to one month's salary, and to establish that in this case the period of stay in the Riigikogu must be at least two years instead of one year. We raised the issue of the debate at the time, which has become a very hot one, concerning the taking-up or not taking up office of one of our fellow Members. This was also linked to the payment of compensation. I asked in this debate whether compensation would be paid from the Riigikogu to the public sector when entering the state work, and the answer was, of course, that it would not be paid. It's still moving out of the sector. The question also arose as to what sounded in this Chamber today. Hanno Pevkur asked what problem he was still trying to solve. Andres Herkel answered it the way he did right now. Jüri Adams raised the question of whether it was right to call this money compensation and whether it was compulsory to accept it. Is it possible to dispense with it and is it necessary to write an application for it? To this, Mr Pevkur and Mr Pomerants replied that this was envisaged, that there was no possibility of abandoning it. You don't have to write a statement to get compensation. I asked more about the subject myself. Why are we still being presented with two separate draft laws on the same subject more or less? This concerns both the law on the status of a member of the Riigikogu and our domestic and working procedures. Why should these changes not be aggregated? I am also thinking of the draft law 647, which concerns the expenses of members of the Riigikogu. Andres Herkel, like here, replied that these problems arose at different times and that this problem, which the draft we are debating today, is due to the end of the mandate of several members of the Riigikogu in connection with the waiver of the mandate. The Commission took procedural decisions. It was decided to propose to put the draft on today's agenda and to appoint a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs before you as rapporteur. It was also decided to propose that the draft be rejected. There were 4 members of the Commission in favour, 1 against and no abstentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U162	Please, Krista Aru, question!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U163	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Would you please enlighten these motives as to why the Committee on Constitutional Affairs decided to reject the draft? You've discussed it a little longer, I understand.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U164	I have to say, I didn't actually say that. I really wanted to say at first that the debate was significantly less emotional and shorter than in this Chamber. I cannot tell you how the other Members voted or on what basis the other Members of the Commission voted in favour of rejecting this draft. My argument was what I pointed out here. This matter should be looked at in a full package that addresses the whole issue of the status of a member of the Riigikogu. And it would probably make sense to do so during the next Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U165	Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U166	Thank you. Dear waitress, In any case, I would like to make it clear: did the Commission mention the economic effect of this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U167	Thank you. It wasn't directly, numerically, the effect. At the same time, several people in the Commission's discussions pointed out that the economic effect was not very great, as you yourself said in the previous report on questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U168	Thank you very much for the waitress. I'm opening negotiations. Mikhail Stalnukhin on behalf of the Estonian Centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U169	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have left this hall twice, of my own accord, in 2005 and 2007. Both times I went to a job that wasn't insured for me. That means there was a certain risk that what I'm leaving here for wouldn't happen. And both times I went from here to pay, which was a third less than that of a member of the Riigikogu, not like the chairman of a committee or vice-chairman of a political group. This means that when it is said that there is no economic effect and it was spoken of by both the initiator's representative and the Commission's waitress, there is something else. What we're talking about now was Mr. Herkel's speech. This is because they want to tie a member of the Riigikogu to his mandate. In Russian, I'm now trying to translate that you're in a good place, then war, damn it! There's nowhere for you to go! And now there's a question that we're going to change. What difference does that make? It changes that we try to think like a voter. The voter's sending 101 people to this hall. He has a great choice, 600 or 700 people he makes his choice. Next time he's not satisfied with the way I or you or we work here, he just won't make that decision again. You're not going to be elected, even though you want to be a second. And that's the voter's decision. I'm coming back to what I started. I had a real fear that you would not have the voter's support after you had given up your mandate twice. But the highest number of votes I've received, I've received in 2011: 8500 votes. That was after I spent six years working for the government. This means that the voter is able to appreciate the actual contribution and he also understands the reason why one or another member of the Riigikogu sometimes leaves here. So this is a bill about money. If you look closely, it proposes to move from three monthly salaries to one and one year to two. There is nothing there to show this real desire, as representatives of the initiators claim that a person would sit here and work. Whether he has any political, family, other personal reasons, let him sit here and stall this time forward. This cannot be accepted. We're gonna climb the voter's cabbage garden, we're gonna try to think for him. This logic does not sit with the Centre Party Group; we cannot support this draft. We support the Commission's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U170	Jüri Adams on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U171	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The content of my speech now is what, once before, when I was a member of the Riigikogu and also the head of a committee until 2003, was the trivial duty of the Commission's adviser. It must be said, in particular, what the previous regulations have been in place in a particular area. At present, the work of the Riigikogu committees, at least the Constitutional Committee, is so strict that it is no longer the norm to investigate. On my hand, I did a little research on it as much as I could, and I'm trying to report the result to you. I start by asking Krista Aru, a good fellow group, about the motives of the decision taken in committee. Mr Aru, in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, most of the decisions, as I have noted, have probably been agreed earlier by the members of the government coalition, and that is why they will never have a problem. As Mr Pomerants says in advance, as a rule everyone will vote and it will never be possible to determine what their motives are. There is another possibility that there is no such prior agreement. In that case, we must think that Mr Pomerants' authority is so great that no one even considers it necessary to doubt, but everyone will vote in favour immediately. But now to the problem. Its history is such that it is the third law that concerns this subject. The first law was passed in the last Supreme Council, probably early June 1992. It was more or less clear then that the Supreme Council would disband and the new constitution would come into force. Then there were a number of problems; it was necessary to prepare a number of materials for the Riigikogu. In this way one such law was passed in the Supreme Council, which had a long and dragging name: the Act of the Republic of Estonia on the remuneration, pension and other social guarantees of the President of the Republic of Estonia and members of the Riigikogu. This law was in force under this heading with some minor changes until 2003. In 2003, the Act, as well as its title, became the 'Law on the remuneration, pension and other social guarantees of members of the Riigikogu, were amended. The third amendment took place in... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U172	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U173	The third amendment took place in 2007 when a completely new law came with a new name: it is the current law on the status of a member of the Riigikogu. Substantial changes have also taken place in this area. In fact, this law of the Supreme Council was the most generous in these matters. The principle of special pensions (the members of the Supreme Council thought of the money of their departure) was established, which was set at four times the average wage in Estonia. The question of what happens when a person leaves the seat of a member of the Riigikogu was also discussed. It was a very complicated thing back then. It was based on the fact that a former member of the Supreme Council would probably not be able to find a job where he would receive more or less the same salary, so his family would face financial difficulties and so on. So very generous social guarantees were determined. The most advanced was the provision that a member of the Supreme Council and then a member of the Riigikogu could end up in one of the programmes paid for by the state, which enabled him to acquire some new specialty during the year. This regulation lasted for years and certainly involved a number of abuses. The 2003 Act reduced these guarantees and became a general rule that people who have been in Riigikogu until the end of their term of office will receive the Riigikogu's salary within six months. Those who had been less in employment were paid within three months. Thirdly, this law on the status of a member of the Riigikogu was adopted in 2007. This ended the continued payment of the salary and replaced it by the so-called severance grant. And I have indeed confirmed that its legal meaning is a parting gift. We have had one such terminological problem, which is mainly based on the Ministry of Social Affairs. Indeed, all public payments tend to be called benefits, which have caused and are still causing great confusion. There's one more thing I want to say. During the recent days of legal researchers, I was able to talk about the availability of materials published in the Official Journal of the State with Jüri Heinla, Head of the Office of the State Gazette, who told me that all the legislation in force during the restored independence was currently found in the Official Journal of the State. I sat behind the computer to prepare the speech, and I now say to you that the two laws that I mentioned, one in 1992 and the other in 2003, at least according to the search for titles, will not come out. In fact, what makes it more difficult is that there are cases where the substance of the law has changed little, but the title has changed, and in this case it is not possible to reach their texts by searching for previous versions. However, as far as this parting gift is concerned, perhaps the moral problem is not so much the size of it as the fact that in the time the writers of the law considered it and the present Chancellery of the Riigikogu considered it entirely natural that everyone wanted it. That's why I hear that money is automatically transferred without asking if anyone wants to accept it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U174	I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to reject draft 669 at first reading. We'll vote in a minute. I am voting on the proposal of the commission to reject the draft Act amending the Act on the Status of Members of the Riigikogu, initiated by the Group of the Estonian Free Party, 669 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. The proposal was supported by 50 MPs, 12 against and no abstentions. The Governing Commission's proposal was supported. Draft 669 has been rejected at first reading and falls out of the Riigikogu proceedings.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U175	As we agreed at the beginning of the sitting, our next item on the agenda is the third reading of the draft law amending the Law on the organisation of health services and the Law on the amendment of the Law on Medicines initiated by the Committee on Social Affairs. Do the political groups want to negotiate? That's not what you want. The commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote, so let's prepare for it. Ladies and gentlemen, Since we are now at a close voting stage, with your permission, I will not give a very long call. I therefore vote on the draft law amending the Law on the organisation of health services initiated by the Social Affairs Committee and the Law on the amendment of the Law on Medicinal Products 689. Please take a stand and vote. 65 people voted in favour of the draft, no one opposed, no abstentions. Draft Act 689 on the Organisation of Health Services and Amendment of the Pharmaceutical Act, initiated by the Social Affairs Committee, has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U176	Third reading of Bill 640 of the Act amending the Law on Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances and their Precursors, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? That's not what you want. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft. I am voting on the draft law amending the Law on Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances and their Precursors, as initiated by the Government of the Republic, 640. Please take a stand and vote. 70 members of the population voted in favour of the draft, and there were no respondents or abstentions. Bill 640 of the Act amending the Law on Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances and their Precursors, initiated by the Government of the Republic, has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U177	Third reading of the draft Act amending the Environmental Charges Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. The political groups have the opportunity to negotiate. I have to ask, Peter Ernits, if the group has authorized it. Well, then. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U178	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, In a moment, we will be voting on the draft law amending the Environmental Charges Act, and this is a remarkable draft. If you remember, at first reading, on September 12, it was on page 14 of the explanatory memorandum, but at second reading, October 20, i.e. less than 30 days later, there were only scraps left of the draft, just two pages. All that remained was a paragraph that said that every tonne of oil shale excavated from the new year would have to be paid up to EUR 10 for the mining right. Till! It's just a matter of whether it's being used. Even if it were to be used in full scope, it would mean EUR 200 million, but in this case the entire oil shale industry would be pawned and not implemented, because the current tariff is only EUR 0.845 per tonne. So what happened in less than 30 days that nothing left of the bill but one point? I would like to remind you that the draft was urgent, so there was no planning, but the procedure was delayed and delayed. On 25 September, Eesti Energia announced that the bill should be sent to the trash because the foundation for its preparation is rotten. The price of the CO2 quota had increased to EUR 25 by 10 September. In June, when I was still a member of the Committee on the Environment, Deputy Chancellor Leppiman told us that the price of the CO2 quota really affects electricity production ten times more than some kind of resource fee, but in October the same man said that their impact assessment showed that the price of the CO2 quota could have risen from up to 16 euros per tonne, but then it was 20 euros per tonne. However, Praxis had an in-depth analysis since 2014, where all this had already been taken into account, EUR 20 and more. For some reason this analysis was not taken into account. But that's just one thing that changed in the 30 days. There's one more thing they don't talk about in public. The long marination of the draft, which was carried out urgently and without intention, was the fight with an influential lobby group. We are talking about the activities of Rene Tammis, the leader of the Socialist House for Renewable Energy, and the party associates in his government. The question was the tax ladder, which was intended to be changed in such a way that it would have damaged oil shale energy. It became picnic after August 22, when the headmaster became a minister himself. After that, the whole thing collapsed, and I'm glad it went down like this. On the other hand, the original bill, the contents of which were grubbed up, had a great point: linking environmental charges to the global logic of the world market. The fact is that a new similar bill must be drawn up immediately. In this case, however, account must be taken not only of the arguments and the moments that were here today, but also of the price of the CO2 quota, which has risen franticly. At the time, it was about EUR 5 to 6 per tonne, between 16 and 20, but no one says it can rise to even EUR 30 and even higher. So the oil shale is our brown gold, we don't self-exploit, i.e. it's actually very important how to deserve it and what formula to come out of it in order to make the most of it. The EKRE Group supports this draft and, to a large extent, because a part of it was culled out. Oil shale energy must be viable and we must not spit in the old well until the new one is ready. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U179	Mikhail Stalnukhin, a line on the spot or a procedural one?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U180	A procedural question, if I may. The question suddenly arose as to whether a non-attached member of the Riigikogu could represent any political group or any political group. Is this right limited to a non-attached member, or is it possible, for example, that a member of the Group of the Reform Party may represent the EKRE Group? How are we even doing this time? That's pretty interesting.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U181	We just had a very specific case. Since Peter Ernits is clearly associated with the EKRE Group in terms of both his body language and dislocation, and he also had the corresponding paper, he was able to perform in that role. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on draft 645 and we will do so about half a minute later. I am voting on the draft law amending the Environmental Charges Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 645. Please take a stand and vote. The bill was supported by 70 parliamentarians, no opposition or abstentions. The draft Act amending the Environmental Charges Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 645 has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U182	The third reading of the Act amending the Nature Conservation Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 676. Do the representatives of the political groups and the authorised representatives have a wish for negotiations? Peter Ernits, please! I'm waiting for another piece of paper.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U183	Ladies and gentlemen, Good Mikhail! Yeah, I'll say it again. Body language. I don't know, my colleague Urve Tiidu and I discussed what that body language is supposed to mean, but let him stay there. The draft that we are approving now is, in my opinion, excellent. The last such step took place 14 years ago when Matsalu National Park was established. The first of our national parks was already created deep in Soviet times, 1971. So, in fact, if we press the green button now, the sixth Estonian national park will be born. Alutaguse is very important to me. When I got there more than 40 years ago, it was something completely different, big hills, bogs, silence, cliff eagles, wolves, bears, and so on. Right now, everything has changed beyond recognition, but since he's been such a mighty neighborhood, he's still very powerful. See if anything's been done before, they tried to do something similar in the '30s. It was done around Paasvere and Peressaare, but then Sonda's railroad and logging came along, and that was the end of the plan. Now, the second plan and plan to come out with the national park came into being in the spring of this year, when the Ministry of the Environment looked at Estonia's 100 under the auspices of the park. Right now, we're so far away. They also thought about how to do it. In fact, the original plan was to start with Ontica and go up to Lake Peipsi, and in the meantime the oil shale industry landscape would remain, as each part of the national park is a cultural landscape. This plan, however, was quickly abandoned. It was decided to go the easy way of resistance and to "trag together" existing protected areas in Muraka, Puhatu, Agusalu, Kurtna lake, everyone who knows the area knows it, but they know nothing new to create. The creation of a new one would have meant problems with landowners and forest owners, but it would again be quite important to link these existing protected areas to the archipelago. The story is that there are mostly permanent places for flying squirrels, which are located in private lands and have caused serious trouble among local landowners. Now they were left aside, they are not needed, although I recall the squirrel is the symbol of this whole place. This new national park is a so-called Taiga zone and a flying squirrel is its most representative. Secondly, it was decided to exclude the cultural landscape, the same oil shale industry landscape there, which is actually an integral part of every national park, be it Lahemaa or Matsalu. By the way, we were afraid that maybe we're going to have too long talk and talk here, maybe we'll go back and argue about how and what to take out of the cultural landscape. I'd rather have it all left out. But, as I have heard, it is actually planned to add to the cultural landscape by creating a management plan. I don't know what they're gonna do to these permanent places in the flying squirrel, but the fact is, this is what this national park is gonna be. And actually, it's a very good step. Those who have visited Alutaguse and enjoyed the charm of this place know that by creating a national park, we are creating a great network. It is also very good for marketing and helps attract more Estonians who have not yet been there or could go there, as well as foreigners. In any case, it is an excellent step and a historic step if you press the green button now, just like the members of the EKRE Group, because nothing like this has happened for 14 years. I suggest we support the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U184	Please, on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U185	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable representatives of the people! In a moment, if we definitely press the green button, the sixth national park will be born in Estonia. It is very large on its territory, 43568 hectares and has 11 separate pieces, all of which together form the Alutaguse National Park. It has its own soul, its own cultural value of nature conservation and a great deal to give Estonia a lot of new discoveries and news not only for tourists but also for all Estonians who have not yet visited Alutaguse. The idea of Alutaguse National Park actually arose for the first time in Gustav Vilbas and the years were then 1922 and 1923. Why didn't the National Park set up? Not because there was little will or because it was not understood how important this neighborhood is, but because in the country, right here at the level of the Riigikogu, the question arose of how to manage this land on the territory of the National Park. The answer to what all of this means to landowners when the land is privately owned and how to manage, how to promote industry there and how to work well at entrepreneurship was not yet available at national level. So today, when we press the green button, let us also think that by establishing a national park of great importance to the people of the region, which is vital for the people of the region, we should also think that there are 920 hectares of private land in the area. A private landlord should also be able to cultivate his land, promote entrepreneurship and move Estonia's life forward in the best faith and knowledge that the Alutaguse people have ever had. The Free Party Group wholeheartedly supports, and I believe that we all support. Let the Alutaguse National Park be born. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U186	There is no further wish for negotiations. Pretty soon, there will be a vote. I am voting on the draft law amending the Nature Conservation Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 676. Please take a stand and vote. The green button was pressed by 65 people, no one pressed red or yellow. Draft Act amending the Nature Conservation Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 676 has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U187	Third reading of Bill 686 of Amendment of Copyright Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Would the political groups like to negotiate? That's not what you want. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft. I am voting on the draft law amending the Copyright Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 686. Please take a stand and vote. 62 people voted in favour of the draft law, and no one opposed it. The draft law amending the Copyright Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 686 has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U188	Second reading of the draft Act amending the Social Welfare Act, initiated by the Social Affairs Committee. I would like the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, Helmen Hunt, to serve as a waitress. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U189	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good fellows! I will give an overview of the 649 procedures in the Social Affairs Committee between first and second readings of the draft Act amending the Social Welfare Act. The Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu initiated this draft on 4 June 2018. Just as a reminder, this bill provides that as of 1 January 2019, people living in a care establishment have the opportunity to receive aids on the basis of the same principle as those living at home. And the reason why the Social Affairs Committee initiated this draft was the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice, in which he pointed out that the Constitution precluded § 47 (3) of the Social Welfare Act. The first reading of the bill took place on 18 September. The deadline for the amendments was 2 October, and it can be said immediately that no proposals were tabled. The Social Affairs Committee itself asked for an opinion on the draft from the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People, the Advisory Board of Estonian Social Services Managers, Invaru OÜ, the Centre for Aids and Aids to ITAK and the Social Insurance Board, AS Hoolekandeteenused, the Baltic Association for Quality of Social Services and the Estonian Association of Cities and Municipalities. Our opinion was sent to us by the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People, the Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities and the Social Insurance Board. The Commission discussed this draft at three meetings: 11 and 22 October and 5 November. I'm gonna give you a little bit of an overview, and I'm gonna talk to you about the decisions that were made. On 11 October, we had been asked to this item by Mr. Raimo Saadi, Adviser to the Welfare Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, Head of the Expert Assessment and Assistance Department of the Social Services Department, Berit Rohtjärv, Member of the Management Board of OÜ Invaru Lauri Leinuste, CEO of ITAK Piret Koha, and Adviser to the Estonian Cities and Municipalities Association, Maililiis Kaljula. The debate took place on the basis of the opinions which had been forwarded. There was also talk about how to know who is in the care institution, because, as you know, the institution itself must have certain resources under this bill, not everything can be obtained with an advantage. The Commission did not take decisions, it agreed to continue the discussion on this draft. On 22 October, we had a meeting attended by Maarja Krais-Leosk, adviser to the Social Welfare Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs. This time we have already talked specifically about the proposals made by the Social Insurance Board. This concerns the need to treat community housing services in the same way as 24/7 care services in providing state-aid facilities. Questions that were still raised were answered. For example, whether the funds are guaranteed. One reason why we have discussed and dealt with this draft at such a peaceful pace is that when the Chancellor of Justice approached us, the negotiations on the country's budgetary strategy had not yet been concluded. No commitments can be made unless they are covered by financial resources. There was also a debate on whether we have the money to implement the law from 1 January 2019. It was decided to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda by 7 November, today, to propose that the second reading be closed and that the second reading be sent to the third reading when the second one is closed, by 14 November, and then put to the final vote. All these decisions were consensual. The last debate took place on 5 November. Raimo Saadi, adviser to the Ministry of Social Affairs Department, participated. The Commission voted around the amendment made at its meeting on 22 October, namely that the text of the Act was supplemented and after the words 'a 24-hour general care service' were added to 'a community-residence service provided to more than 10 persons with special needs'. The second point concerned the establishment of a list of aid instruments by regulation of the Minister responsible for the field. Both proposals have been fully taken into account, i.e. consensus. The Commission decided to authorise the chairman of the committee to endorse the second reading procedural documents. It was a small review of what we have done in the Commission. I very much hope that next week we will reach the final vote on this draft and the law will apply from 1 January 2019, so we have all done a great job together in this Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U190	The first question is asked by Aivar Kokk.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U191	Good manager! Good waitress! First of all, I would like to thank the Committee on Social Affairs for doing a very good thing, because it was long ago time to eliminate this inequality. But I have a question for myself, and you're probably the best at answering it. The Committee on Social Affairs considered that the provision of community housing should be treated in the same way as a 24-hour special care service when more than 10 persons with special needs are provided with community housing. Maybe you can tell me where it's coming from, like, 10 or at least 11 people that's supposed to be there. Where did that number come from? Was there any discussion about this, and does it make any sense or what it came from?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U192	Thank you for your question. This proposal actually came from the Social Insurance Board. We had a discussion on how to deal with this. Specifically, the question why it says that for more than 10 people with special needs, we did not. We have discussed what happens when there are less than ten, whether these requirements do not apply and if there are no requirements for ten or more. So there were discussions on this subject, but this was not specifically the case in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U193	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U194	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You indicated that the list or list of aids to be reimbursed would be established by a regulation by the Minister. Did you also see a draft regulation in the Commission, and can you open its contents there are major changes compared to the current ones or what is planned with it?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U195	Thank you very much. That's a very good question. Since it is known that aid instruments are constantly changing, the list of aids is being expanded as new ones enter the market in a good way, this clause simply goes in because there is no need to change the law, but the Minister has the right to introduce this regulation. I would also say that, at first reading, we already had a three-page list of aids for which a person living in a care establishment is also entitled to reimbursement, but one page was one that the nursing home has a duty to provide and own. This point, which now entered, ensures that when a change takes place and new aids come, they will be added to the list, which is also available for people living at home and living in a nursing home. So it doesn't come from any level of law, but it is imposed by a ministerial regulation.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U196	Thank you very much for the waitress. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. As this is a second reading, all members of the Riigikogu can take the floor. That's not what you want. Two amendments have been tabled to bill 649; both are from the Committee on Social Affairs and are fully taken into account, but we will still examine them one by one. The first amendment, taken fully into account, the second from the Committee on Social Affairs, and fully taken into account. The amendments to the draft 649 have been examined. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of the draft. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U197	Second reading of the draft Act amending the VAT Act initiated by the Government of the Republic 674. I would like to ask Mikhail Stalnukhin, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U198	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This law was discussed by the Committee on Monetary Affairs at two meetings: 9 and 23 October. On 9 October, it became clear that the members of the Riigikogu and the political groups had not tabled any amendments. At the same time, we had four textual issues to discuss. I would like to remind you that at first reading we had a debate here about the word 'vaucher' and also came up with a number of comments on how badly this law has been formulated. The first amendment tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs now rewords the meaning of a multipurpose voucher. The second, third and fourth amendments are again a better wording. We had to meet again on 23 October, because by 9 October the Ministry of Finance had not taken a position on the word 'unblemished reputation'. Let me remind you, there's such a formulation in the law. The Commission's requirement was that such non-objective things cannot be used in law at all. Whatever has a reputation and how to interpret it, we already had the debate. Then they found it wasn't necessary at all. So Amendment 5 does not define a reputation as a set of objective criteria, but simply takes it out of the law. I would like to say a few words here, not on behalf of the Commission, but on my own behalf. It turned out that there are slightly more than 20 laws in Estonian legislation than 24 if I am not deceived by my memory, which has already used the word pair 'unwiden reputation'. I think that the next Riigikogu should do this work and at least clear the laws. Okay. In the meantime, we received a comment from the senior editor of the verbatim department of the Riigikogu, who announced that we must not find a substitute word for the word 'vaucher'. One possible option could perhaps be a 'guarantee document'. But, of course, it seems that the voucher and the guarantee document are so different things and their meaning is different. So we got rid of the reputation of integrity, the voucher stayed. All the decisions taken were taken in a consensual manner. Five amendments were accepted, it was decided to propose to the Riigikogu Board that this issue be placed on today's agenda and that the second reading be closed, and, if the second reading is completed, that the third reading be made on 14 November. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U199	There is also a question for the rapporteur. Aivar Chef.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U200	Good manager! Good waitress! Maybe you can talk a little bit. § 101 of the law has been supplemented by one sentence, but when I read this text, I don't quite understand it. Maybe you can explain what that means. 'The place where the electronic communications service and the electronically supplied service are provided to persons who are neither identified for tax purposes nor limited for tax purposes in any Member State. " What is meant by it?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U201	Thank you for your question. Yes, we discussed this at first reading and discussed it in the Commission. It is a tax liability which arises in the country where the same service provider operates. It is a digital service and is quite often used across the country. I have not yet said that this whole bill exists because, as of 1 January 2019, the European Union will have a new regime for multi-purpose vouchers and this digital service. And it is exactly as it is formulated in this directive.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U202	Thank you very much. No further questions for the rapporteur. Is there a wish to express an opinion by negotiation? That's not what you want. Five amendments to the draft have been tabled, and we will examine them together. They have all been presented by the Committee on Monetary Affairs and all have been fully taken into account. The first amendment, the second amendment, the third amendment, the fourth amendment, the fifth amendment as well as the Committee on Monetary Affairs have been fully taken into account. We have examined the proposed amendments together. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of the draft. Second reading is complete. Mr Stalnukhin asked a question before the non-attached MP wanted to take part in the negotiations and represent a group. The Councillor made an effort, and the current answer is that indeed all of them have such an opportunity if they agree with a group and receive a written statement. This is perhaps a slightly more complicated question, which cannot be answered immediately by 100%. Here's the current answer. I promise that if there are any other nuances to be made in more precise processing, because such cases have been in the Chamber of the Riigikogu before, then we will report this separately. Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U203	Thank you for your answer. And maybe the advisor would try a little more and find out if the political group ambassadors have that opportunity. Well, that would be pretty funny, wouldn't it, if someone from the Central Party Group could get a mandate from the Reform Party Group to represent them on the remote. I mean, if that is not the case, the rights of members of the political groups will be restricted compared to those not belonging to the political groups. So that's a pretty interesting question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U204	In this hall, questions are often smarter than answers. I guess you'll have to get used to it by now.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U205	The 12th item is the second reading of the draft Act amending the Government of the Republic Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like Kristen Michal, member of the Economic Commission, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U206	Good manager! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! This draft has now been dealt with in the interim in the Committee on Economic Affairs. I can tell you what we're talking about. We bring together two agencies: the Consumer Protection Board and the Technical Surveillance Authority. In general, in the Committee on Economic Affairs, all parties have taken decisions by consensus and found this draft and direction reasonable. There is no difference between the coalition and the opposition. Let's say that if there's been a debate, it's been over whether it should be the terminal, so it's more like one connection, and it should go on. The Technical Surveillance Authority employs approximately 88 employees and 52 in the Consumer Protection Board, with a reduction of 9 or 10 posts as a result of the merger. There have also been a number of proposals, some from our committee officials who have examined this draft and the Riigikogu and the rest from the initiator. In general, they have all received a consensual positive attitude. The Commission has taken the following procedural decisions: the proposal is to close the second reading and, should this happen, to send the draft to the third reading by 21 November if the Bureau so decides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U207	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U208	Good manager! Good waitress! In addition to the fact that the two institutions together are a very good one, perhaps indeed, there is a whole bunch of other things in this law, such as changing the state fee. Did the Commission discuss how much state fees will increase or decrease or what will happen to them? These are from the examination of the application for a building permit for a national defence and security authority building to the railway facility and weapons permit. Maybe you'll talk a few words about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U209	Yes, of course it was discussed. All members of the Committee on Economic Affairs took the utmost commitment to this draft and this issue. It turned out that these state fees were not recorded in the correct places when the construction code was processed, and that is why we are correcting this error by this law. The rates of the fees shall not change.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U210	Thank you very much for the waitress. No further questions. Do members of the Riigikogu wish to start negotiations? That's not what you want. There are seven amendments to the draft; we will examine them together. Everything is presented and taken into account by the Committee on Economic Affairs in full, but still. The first amendment, the second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth and seventh amendments, has been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs and is the lead committee, fully taken into account. We have examined the amendments together. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 651. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U211	Second reading of the draft law amending the Rail Act, the Air Protection Act and the State Fees Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask Erki Savisaare, member of the Economic Commission for the Chair, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U212	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Draft 670 was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 22 August. The first reading took place on 26 September. No amendments were received from the Riigikogu by the deadline of 10 October. The draft concerned only mandatory national amendments to the transposition of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council, which will enter into force on 25 December, of which the only theoretical obligations may arise for our two railway infrastructure companies: AS Eesti Raudtee and South Western Railway. The first of them had made five comments during the coordination process, most of which were taken into account, and the second had not made any comments, so the Commission no longer initiated a wide-ranging involvement. The Commission informed AS of the possibility of issuing opinions and proposals on the provisions contained in the draft, but they were not received. The text of the draft act passed between the two readings of the language and technical amendments to the language were made in the second reading text. The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the draft between first and second reading at its meeting on 22 October. It was decided to introduce one change of substance and two changes of a more technical nature in the text of the Act. Procedural decisions were taken on the draft. All three amendments are proposals by the commission and were taken into account by consensus within the Commission on the basis of the reasons given in the accompanying explanations. The first of these proposals concerning the type-approval of internal combustion engines for non-road use in accordance with Regulation 2016/1628 of the European Parliament and of the Council was submitted to the Commission by the representative of the initiator of the draft for consideration. The second and third amendments had been prepared by the Steering Commission Working Group, in cooperation with the authors and initiators. The Committee on Economic Affairs decided to submit a draft for the second reading by 7 November and to propose the termination of the second reading and, if the second reading is closed, to refer the draft to the third reading by 14 November. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U213	Aivar Chef opens the round of questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U214	Good manager! Good waitress! If this law is now taken up and the first paragraph examined, it is stated here that the members of the railway undertaking's board and board of directors, as well as the employees of the undertaking, must act in a non-discriminatory manner vis-à-vis other persons operating in the railway sector and the applicants referred to in § 53 (1) of this Act. And then, when I take off §531, applying for capacity, it's written here that I should apply 18 months before. In today's economy, a year and a half is still an extremely long time. Did you discuss in the committee how it got in here for 18 months? It's not like it's wrong, is it?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U215	Thank you. We did not have an 18-month question in the Commission, but we talked about non-discriminatory behaviour. This means that one undertaking must not favour another and that it must offer everyone exactly the same conditions for the use of the infrastructure.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U216	Aivar Chef, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U217	On this answer, I would ask whether the owner of the railway infrastructure is not entitled to offer a price. For example, if one still carries ten echelons every day and one every year, will the cost of the infrastructure be the same for each of them, or can there still be differences?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U218	Thank you. We know that different companies can make different price offers on a volume basis, but if both infrastructure users want to transport the same volumes, for example, they must be remunerated in the same way.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U219	Thank you very much for the waitress. No further questions. Is there a desire to open negotiations? That's not what you want. Three amendments have been tabled for draft 670. All of these have been submitted by the Committee on Economic Affairs and the decision of the commission is to take them fully into account. The first amendment, the second amendment and the third amendment, the decision of the commission of directors, is to take them fully into account. The amendments to the draft 670 have been examined. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 670. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U220	Next item: First reading of Bill 722 of the Law on the Flag and Registers of Ships, and of the Law on the Amendment of Income Tax and related Acts, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Minister of Economy and Infrastructure Kadri Samson, please waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U221	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I will introduce you to the draft law amending the flag law of the ship and the Ship Registers Act and the Income Tax Act and related amendments to other laws. Today we are in a situation where Estonia is in the leading position in the Baltic Sea in terms of passenger ships. There are several large passenger ships flying the flag of Estonia, but unfortunately no larger cargo ships are flying the flag of Estonia. The last cargo ship left the Estonian flag in 2014. This draft is a first important step and part of a comprehensive package of measures for the development of the maritime sector. The aim of the draft is to restore the Estonian flag fleet, increase the Estonian shore sector and, together with it, restore the international reputation of Estonia as a maritime state. The seven-year target is the arrival of 300 large ships under the Estonian flag, which is estimated to result in an additional tax collection of 76 million euros in total receipts for seven years. Of the 1.3 million inhabitants of Estonia, 10000 are active seamen. This is a significant percentage of our population and comparable, for example, to the total number of German seafarers. The growth of the Estonian flag fleet would give them the opportunity to work again on a ship carrying the Estonian flag. In order to bring ships under the Estonian flag, the principles of taxation of seafarers and shipping companies must be amended, following the example of other European countries, and the registration of ships in the Estonian register of chartered ships without a crew made easier. At the same time, it is planned to create modern and customer-friendly maritime information systems and operational and efficient 24/7 customer service in the Maritime Administration. In order to facilitate the registration of ships in the Estonian ship register, the register of chartered ships without crew is divided into two separate registers: the first and the second bareboat chartered ships register. The main difference between the registers is that the first register can register a ship whose person responsible for the organisation and technical service of maritime safety is located in Estonia. Decisions relating to the operation of the ship must also be taken in Estonia. In essence, this means the emergence of companies in the shore sector in Estonia. A state fee shall be payable for operations in the first register. In order to register a vessel in another register, the person responsible need not be located in Estonia and an annual fixed registration fee is payable to obtain registration services. This all-price-registry fee will help foreign ship owners to plan their costs better when bringing the ship under the Estonian flag. At the same time, it is more economical for the shipping company to create shore sector jobs in Estonia and register the ship in the first register, as it is more costly to keep it in the second bareboat chartered ship register. The target group for tax changes to the draft is shipping companies operating on ships of 500 gross tonnage or more engaged on regular voyages outside the European Economic Area. The European Commission's Guidelines on State aid to maritime transport apply only to maritime transport, i.e. the carriage of goods and passengers by sea, and therefore the tax changes cannot be applied to ships because they are not maritime transport. For the first time, the draft proposes a number of tax changes. Since tax incentives constitute State aid, the draft has been drawn up in the light of the European Union guidelines on State aid in this field. In order to implement tax changes, Estonia needs to obtain a State aid permit from the European Commission. The tax changes introduced by the draft for companies and seafarers operating in the shipping sector are as follows: If a seaman is employed on an international freight vessel of 500 gross tonnage or more or on a passenger ship engaged on regular voyages outside the European Economic Area carrying the flag of an EEA State, his labour tax will be charged on a fixed tax base instead of actual remuneration. This means that, regardless of the actual salary, the seafarer's salary will be taxed up to a maximum of the specific amount prescribed by law, i.e. EUR 750 per month worked in the version submitted to you. The tax base is subject to a normal personal income tax rate of 20%. In the case of income earned on board a ship, which has been subject to the tax base, neither tax-free income nor deductions can be taken into account. However, for all other income, the seafarer is entitled to both tax-free income and deductions. The tax base pays a reduced social tax rate for the sailor, or 20% instead of the usual 33%. This means that only the part of the pension insurance is paid; the 13% share of the social security insurance is not paid for the sailor. Instead, all seafarers who are permanent residents of Estonia or persons residing in Estonia on the basis of a temporary residence permit or right of residence will be given the opportunity to conclude a voluntary health insurance contract with the sickness insurance fund. This is not an option at the moment. About 5,000 Estonian sailors flying the flag of a foreign country do not have this possibility. When concluding a health insurance contract, the seafarer shall be able to obtain insurance cover, in particular for the period between contracts of employment at sea. The ship is normally engaged on fixed-term contracts and each crew member shall be insured by his employer when working on the ship. In addition to income tax and social tax, the draft provides for the payment of unemployment and compulsory contributions to funded pensions from the tax base. This tax base, as mentioned earlier, is EUR 750, not the actual salary of a sailor. Shipping companies will be subject to a special corporate tax regime, i.e. a tonnage regime, which can be used as an alternative to the current tax system. More specifically, shipping companies will be able to implement either the current system by paying income tax on the company's undistributed profits or by applying the tonnage tax system. In the tonnage regime, the taxable income of an undertaking from international commercial shipping shall be determined by multiplying the net tonnage of the vessel at its disposal by the ratios to be established. The union has sent you all a letter stating that as a result of the changes, the Estonian flag will become a flag of convenience, that the state will not pay enough attention to the technical condition of the ships and will not guarantee the social rights of seafarers. That's not really the case. The Estonian flag is the highest-quality flag internationally, which is on the white list and will remain there in the future. More ships are expected in the Estonian ship registers, but it will certainly be monitored closely to ensure that ships that are not technically in order are not taken there. Only ships that are technically in good condition and meet international requirements and comply with international regulations and requirements for the social protection and safety of seafarers, maritime safety and the environment. All these requirements are still being complied with by the Estonian state, but in the future, keeping the ship in the register will become directly dependent on the compliance of the ship with international regulations. The right of non-citizens to register ships in Estonia. I note that already today, non-residents have this right through the establishment of a legal entity governed by private law in Estonia and, nevertheless, the Estonian flag is not a flag of convenience. Foreigners are normally controlled in the setting-up and operation of a company, as in other business environments. As has already been said, shipping means not only ships under the flag of the state, but also a strong and sustainable shipping shore sector. According to a European survey carried out in 2014, one job on a ship generates 3.8 jobs on shore. Shipping is the fourth largest in Europe in terms of productivity and above other modes of transport, such as air transport and land transport. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! This bill will help Estonia to become a maritime state again from a seaside state. As a result of the registration of ships in the Estonian register, the number of ships registered in Estonia and flying the flag of Estonia will increase and the reputation of the sea state again will increasingly bring companies from the shore sector to Estonia. This, in turn, increases the tax revenue received by the state budget and provides the basis for the growth of the Estonian economy. It is also of little importance that the draft is accompanied by a gradual improvement in the social protection of our own seafarers. I ask for your support for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U222	Thank you, Madam Secretary. You have questions too. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U223	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I am addressing the issue of training the shore sector and seafarers. Would it be conceivable for maritime safety training to be burdened with zero VAT, just as it is in Lithuania and Latvia? In that case, Estonian seafarers would be able to improve themselves and we would treat them equally with Latvia and Lithuania.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U224	Thank you. I must trust your claim that this is the case in Lithuania and Latvia. If a zero tax rate is possible in one Member State of the European Union, it is possible to set a zero tax rate for the exact same service in others.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U225	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U226	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Let's talk about these taxes a little bit more. Indeed, the representatives of seafarers say that this reduction in labour taxes will also reduce their social guarantees. Your Ministry's comment on this says that social protection is improving. So how's that for real? How will there be competition for income tax with Lithuania, where it is set to zero? And who's gonna declare this income tax? I have understood the story of the seafarers by declaring it by the employer. However, if the employer does not want to declare it, what problems will this cause the employee if some mistake or falsehood is found afterwards? Wouldn't it be better for everyone to declare it as they have so far?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U227	Thank you. There were now three questions. Firstly, the question was how can we compete with other Member States of the European Union, which, for example, in the negotiations on accession to the European Union, managed to obtain a zero-rate tax on the sector. The whole principle of the European Union is that we compete in the maritime sector with third countries and not with each other. Our success can primarily come from the good usability of our registers. Here too, the Maritime Administration has a great deal of work to do to ensure that this aid in English 24/7 is one of the arguments why they come to take the flag of Estonia on their ship. Next, the employee must be registered by the employer and this employer must have a representation in Estonia with which the state can contact here on Estonian soil. We will talk about the third question: how the social protection of Estonian seafarers will change. The 5000 Estonian sailors who work daily on a ship carrying the flag of another country are not covered today by the health insurance of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund. They also do not have the opportunity to make a voluntary agreement. True, they must all have health insurance provided by their employer while working at sea, but the problem arises from the moment they enter the country. If, for example, they register as unemployed here or move to another post for a short period of time while they are on the shore, it will take them a month for the insurance to enter into force. The possibility of a voluntary health insurance contract solves this problem. It can therefore be said that this creates an opportunity for all Estonian seafarers who have been working under the flag of a foreign country that they have not yet had.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U228	Enn Meri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U229	Thank you, good manager. Madam Minister! According to my data, there is a ship belonging to Estonian owners. I'm talking about cargo ships. They basically sail under the flag of either Malta or Portugal. This idea of yours is, of course, very nice and it would be very good if it were so easy to do. But there's a little danger here, too. Have you or someone in your ministry calculated what happens when Tallink comes to you and says that we want to pay the same tax, otherwise we will go under the flag of Lithuania or Malta, for example? This would, I think, cost the Estonian state very dearly, because Tallink has about 1,500 people on the ship.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U230	Thank you for your question. I think that this estimate has indeed been made several times over the years. That must be why, for so long, there has been a defiance of the need to make sectoral tax distinctions. For four years, we have seen that without this tax distinction, we are simply in a situation where Estonian shipowners have ships, but they are not under the Estonian flag. In addition to Malta and Cyprus, they are found under more exotic flags. For example, Antigua and Barbuda or Panama. As a result, only cargo ships have been targeted by this law. Ships operating regular services from Estonian ports do not come down here every day to start a trip or finish a trip there. The reason is very simple: their sailors either start or finish their business here in our country. Currently, the target is those ships that exist and whose owners would be easier to deal with the shore sector here in Estonia, but which have left here because of the rigidity of our tax system.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U231	Urve Tiidus, please ask your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U232	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. In connection with this draft, the public has heard '300 ships under the flag of Estonia' on several occasions today. This is also pointed out several times in the explanatory memorandum to the draft law that there is a theoretical possibility that these ships will come under the Estonian flag about 300. Here's my question. I also refer to the previous questioner who said how many merchant ships Estonian owners hold. What is this real number or what does this number 300 rely on, which in itself sounds really good? Who, then, will give up the flag of other countries, and what exactly is the attractive point of the draft that attracts them here in such a large number, which, I would emphasise, would in itself be nice?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U233	I agree with you that it would be nice. This number didn't come up so that someone just thought about a nice round number. The preparation of this draft dates back to at least 2012 when the Estonian maritime policy for 2012 was adopted. Then, for the first time, these measures were mapped, which could keep the ships under the flag of Estonia, as there were other large cargo ships under the flag of Estonia. At a later stage, last year, the Maritime Administration carried out a further study, specifically commissioned this study. The surveyer conducted targeted interviews in large German ports, asking ship-owners what the arguments might be to change the current flag state. It is true that the first must not be the obstacles that currently exist in our tax system, but the second, of course, looks at the efficiency, the quality of the shoreline sector. We are very proud of our electronic business, and these registers and the handling of registers should be the argument that makes the owner company of one ship decide that it will bring its ship under the Estonian flag.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U234	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U235	Thank you, Mr President. Very honourable Minister! The Estonian seafarers' representative organisations have stated that many of these benefits are actually granted to shipowners at the expense of their social security. That is the same question Mr Herkel asked. Let me give you a very concrete example. According to this bill, the tax base is EUR 750, on which personal income tax is also paid. At the same time, unemployment benefit, redundancy benefit and parental benefit are taken into account for the remuneration on which the payment has been made. For example, if one sailor receives a salary of EUR 2 000, the parental benefit is calculated only at EUR 750. This is obviously unfair. Do you share this view, or have I misunderstood something?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U236	Thank you for your question. So we have social guarantees that you will receive from the amount of social tax paid. And if they have a tax base of EUR 750, just like the cashier of Selver, who has a social tax paid for EUR 750 and who knows what sick pay or parental benefit he receives, this remains the case for seafarers. They are treated equally with the same other Estonian people who pay social tax at 750 euros.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U237	Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U238	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! First of all, I acknowledge that such a bill has finally reached the Riigikogu. Indeed, this has been done for a long time, and previous governments have also worked towards it. I have some questions. I think it's a good bill by nature. And if we can make it better in the Riigikogu, I mean making the state even more attractive, so perhaps it is more accurate to say, then we should definitely make an effort to do so. I'll mark two numbers, ask you about them. One is 500 and the other is 750. This 500 is the capacity limit for ships, which is placed on them, and 750 is the base number on which the tax is calculated. How did the working groups themselves come to be such numbers? Perhaps these numbers could be reduced and even more attractive. This is certainly one of the proposals that can come to the table during this period. Why don't you enlighten the Riigikogu on this subject?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U239	The gross tonnage was 500 in the original proposal of the Maritime Administration. I'm gonna look up for a second and try to get an eye contact with the Director General of the Maritime Administration. He nods from the balcony that yes, this 500 has come from cooperation with the sector and probably been in their proposals for a long time. Just to show the magnitude, I will also give an example of what this gross tonnage of 500 means. Think of the ships that might come before you, such as Tõllu, Leiger, Tiiu and Piret, which travels between Hiiumaa and Saaremaa. The last two gross tonnage is 4987. And think about that 500 for a second. Now this 750. Indeed, there were also other proposals from the sector that we should divide the composition of the crew according to our duties and that base, which is taxed, could be, for example, EUR 500 and EUR 1500 for the officer's staff. However, after long discussions, in consultation with the Ministry of Finance, who represented this view that the Tax and Customs Board should also be able to collect tax effectively on this reduced base, the preference for a common approach was maintained. In addition to this 750, it is important to mention one reference number. In the Committee on Economic Affairs, the representative of the Maritime Administration said that they also have an overview of the average net salary of Estonian seafarers, which tends to be 2800 euros.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U240	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U241	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister! The draft law itself is to be welcomed. Its big goal is what has been expected and talked about in this Chamber for several years. Indeed, much work has been done to prepare the draft law, and much work has been done. Tell us how you assess whether these tax incentives received in the draft law for seafarers are attractive, flexible and understandable enough to speed up and increase the arrival of these merchant ships under the Estonian flag.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U242	Thank you for your question. Indeed, especially on the initiative of the sector, this draft has been working on for years. If you go back to history, in 2007 these last merchant ships were tried to keep the Estonian flag under the EAS support measure. EAS repaid the ship-owner's social security contributions above the agreed level. But it didn't keep those ships under our flag, those ships didn't stay here. So it is only through taxes that we will not succeed. We are not going to compete with those flag states that have set a zero tax rate. We've never had zero mode on the table. Here is a very important and important part of the shore sector and our own willingness to provide a good register service. It's a key. Since there are enough flag states in the world with a zero tax rate, no less can be offered.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U243	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U244	Mr President, Minister, thank you very much. Too bad a good friend Tarmo Kõutsi isn't here, he'll be very happy. I'm happy, too, and I think a lot of people are happy that this has come to be. But Tarmo Kõuts has said that if income tax doesn't go to zero, it doesn't make much sense. The report by the Community of Carriers, which may be available to others, states in black that 20% of the income tax on EUR 750 is too high to have a positive impact on the competitiveness of seafarers, rather the opposite: it could get even worse. So it's more expensive and worse than the current system. A zero rate should still be set, as is the case in Lithuania, the Netherlands and many others, or 11,6%, which was considered in the meantime. Then why don't we take the opinion of Tarmo Kõuts into consideration?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U245	Thank you for your question. I'm sorry, too, that Lord Tarmo Kõuts is not here with us right now, but I'm sure he'll be watching us online. And now the question of what is the tax rate. Today, those Estonian seafarers who are serving under the flag of another country have a tax rate of 20% of their total service, not of an agreed 750 euros. If he receives a "average high wage," i.e. EUR 2800, he currently has a 20% tax liability on it. So Estonian sailors working in the world seas receive special income tax regimes. In addition, I think they can certainly appreciate this other party, the tonnage tax, which could motivate shipowners to bring their ships under the Estonian flag.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U246	Thank you, good minister. Of course, it can be said that the purpose of the draft is noble, but it is not quite certain that the content of the draft will bring us closer to this objective. There was a rather confusing impression in the Commission. In itself, it is noteworthy that the Ministry and the government have made such bold forecasts: GDP growth can be predicted with decimal precision even by 2060. Let's hope this happens. But it was a lot of confusion that who would still benefit from this tax relief, whether for shipowners or for shipowners, how third-country nationals are taxed, etc. The Commission was so confused that even the perceptions of the government's own representatives, MKM and the Ministry of Finance differed. And in the Commission, the positions were changed on the move. You don't often see that joke. But the trade unions also sent a devastating opinion. It was a very big surprise that the trade unions did not agree with the content of this draft. How can you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U247	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U248	Thank you. I think there was a very effective debate in the Committee on Economic Affairs. Unfortunately, the start of the next Commission meeting was accepted, but you will certainly continue these effective discussions. I dare say that a very senior civil servant, Mrs Lemmi Oro, from the Ministry of Finance, made entirely appropriate comments. And these comments have been confirmed in a detailed table distributed to all of you, which shows which crew member is subject to the special regime and which crew member is not subject to it. In a time - critical state, it is sometimes difficult to give a table verbally. As far as the seafarers' trade union is concerned, any organisation standing up for workers must demand a maximum. And the maximum is probably that you don't pay any taxes, but you get all the social guarantees. This is now the choice of the honourable Riigikogu, whether it would be more appropriate to have such a special regime or special regime, which, in the form of this bill, has reached your desk as a result of lengthy disputes and negotiations with the sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U249	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U250	Thank you. Dear Minister, In my opinion, too, this is a paduoptimistic bill. I am thinking of this table of objectives, which was also presented at the Commission meeting. By the way, the revised version of the presentation has gone somewhere. In this table, even this target of €1.1 billion in additional tax revenue was set for 2050. If it's all so beautiful, I'm gonna have a little bit of a doubt that maybe there might be a latch here with that flag of convenience. But if it's all right that it says here, I'll ask the next question again. Why are Estonian passenger ships that travel and regularly travel in the European Economic Area still not included in this draft? Do we have to wait for them to go under the flag of another country and then we will start making efforts to bring them back under the flag of Estonia again?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U251	I think optimistic is not bad in itself, especially when it comes from the sector. The government has brought very high expectations from this sector down from time to time by 2050 and said that we are forecasting the nearest seven years. And for the next seven years, the Maritime Administration has based itself on those regions of the European Union that have just made tax decisions or established their own register and have received ships there for a certain period of time. As the Committee on Economic Affairs said, Madeira managed to obtain these 300 vessels in its register. It doesn't come by itself. This will not happen automatically after the Riigikogu has passed the law and the European Commission has obtained a State aid permit. This requires very targeted work on our registers. This job is not ready yet, but we are ready to help the Maritime Administration in every way possible. Oh, yeah, the question was about passenger ships. It took many years to open this gateway to opportunities to make tax distinctions in one sector of Estonia. This was not easy for the maritime sector. It was also not easy in terms of cooperation between several ministries. And that's why the package that's on the table in front of you is so tight. The practiced idea that we need to have everything very evenly even if it stifles some sectors is still quite hard.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U252	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U253	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! It seems to me that this idea, which you described in these answers, is important to me. I therefore repeat that changes are not only made in the tax environment, but also concern registers, they are broader. It's come here with the help of different governments. This has been done for years, and different governments have made their best contribution to this. Today's the first part of this hall. I am rather positive about this, but I have a technical question: how will this activity be organised and financed? At present, I think the last end of this activity is financed by EAS. What about the next few years? As we well know in the Committee on Economic Affairs, there are still several waves of changes to come during the next government. What's the plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U254	I must admit that the Riigikogu worked at a faster pace than I expected. So this exact table of funding for the work of the Maritime Administration to develop registers, I left in another building. These budget lines are absolutely there, I've seen them with my own eyes, but unfortunately I haven't memorized the chart.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U255	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U256	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Previous discussions would continue: indeed, this EUR 750 as a basis for parental and sickness benefits is still very low. And if Estonian sailors are really interested in a special income tax regime, why are they deprived of the opportunity to declare it themselves? It doesn't make any sense. But the question I want to raise now is: what prevents Estonia from moving towards the zero tax rate if Lithuania has been able to do so? What special status does this Lithuania have? And does this Lithuanian zero income tax also apply to passenger ships or only to merchant ships?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U257	If Lithuania has a zero tax rate, it therefore has a State aid authorisation to do so. In Estonia, this is the result of 750 euros of compromises. This reflects, in particular, the Ministry of Finance's view that any employee who wishes to receive certain social security benefits must contribute with taxes. This is also the case with a person earning a minimum wage in Estonia. A person earning 500 euros will also pay 33% of the social tax for this 500 euros. Now there's this Lithuanian zero tax rate. We have not planned to introduce a zero tax rate in Estonia. It is not as crucial in itself as we are thinking about what the actual salary of an officer's staff in the maritime sector is. There was also a question of why a sailor is forced to be in a situation where only EUR 750 is paid for him. Perhaps he would like to pay 33% of his social tax on EUR 2800 and a further 20% of his income tax. Perhaps he feels very unwell when his tax liability to the Estonian state remains 150 euros of income tax and 150 euros of social tax. Once again, I stress that this special regime does not automatically extend to every Estonian sailor who serves on any ship under the flag. If he continues his service under the flag of Antigua, he will not go into special mode.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U258	Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U259	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. This draft constitutes State aid which requires the approval of the European Commission. When are you going to ask for this permission before your second reading or at any other time? We expect it to be done before the second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U260	We have held preliminary consultations. As you can see, the bill states that the law will not apply after the adoption of the Riigikogu, the signing of the President or the announcement in the Official Journal of the State, but will apply after the granting of the State aid permit. Preliminary consultations have given us reason and opportunity to believe that this version, too, that the Riigikogu will adopt the law and that the State aid permit will be obtained after that, is feasible in this context. It should be borne in mind that all EU Member States with sea borders have already applied for some similar State aid authorisation. This is nothing extraordinary, and it is not the first time we have negotiated with the European Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U261	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U262	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. I am not going to talk here about those Indonesian sailors who, according to this law, will also receive a pension from Estonia. But we are talking about the process of banishing passenger ships, which is said to continue. In 2014, the last cargo ship went. The analysis by the Association of Shipowners, which we have here, also clearly states that this process is still taking place and we need to do something about it. I ask when you will come up with the next bill on passenger ships. For example, placing a ship under the Latvian flag on Tallink gives about 17 million savings.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U263	Thank you for your question. You mentioned the views of the Estonian Ship Managers' Association here. I think it is very necessary to take the first step towards finding out whether Estonia, as a sea state and as a sea state offering a very good flag, is able to get the ships back under its flag as a result of these steps. And that has been the position of the Shipowners' Association. They recognise the initiative of the state to bring the merchant ships back under the Estonian flag. They also deserved recognition for their plan to generate revenue through the development of the maritime sector. They are confident that the draft is essential for further steps in the development of the maritime sector. This has been long awaited in maritime circles. We have also discussed this issue in the Maritime Advisory Board, which brings together representatives of people or companies involved in the maritime sector. Tallink is also represented there. I have not heard vetoing views there saying that we, as maritime people, consider such an initiative to be somehow bad, because it does not extend to everyone. On the contrary, this initiative is considered to be very grateful and long-awaited.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U264	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U265	Thank you. Let's talk about order taxation. The Commission stated that these vessels had an average net salary of EUR 2800. This means that there are likely to be people working on these ships who will receive EUR 5000.6000 per month. From now on, the tax burden on all of them will be EUR 150. It is certainly a great gift for shipowners and workers in this sector. In fact, it is in itself a completely liberal approach that all citizens pay an equal amount to support the state. In the case of the Centre Party, this approach has, to my knowledge, been slightly different, has been said about solidarity. Maintaining the country is certainly more expensive than 150 euros per month. Sailors are likely to have children and parents, and their schools, streets, health and safety also cost something. I want to know where the money comes from. Is it really just the registration fee for ships, which is twenty thousand a year? That's not a lot of money.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U266	You're now oversimplifying again. This special regime will not apply to all seafarers. They still have to work under the flag to which the special regime will apply. Of the 5,000 sailors who are not currently flying the flag of Estonia, many earn a flag of free choice or forced entry. And now for comparison: if this sailor serves under the flag of Panama, for example, he will not pay taxes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U267	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U268	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister! One of the concerns of the Estonian Shipowners' Association is the health insurance that sailors themselves have to provide, because they do not pay 13%. Their question was, above all, about whether it could be made more flexible. They considered that the payment of full payments was not justified in substance, as sailors are on average 180 days of age at sea, where they already have health insurance. They will then have half a year of double health insurance because they will have to buy this insurance for 12 months.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U269	They still have to buy health insurance today because they are large merchant ships, which may not only work within the European Union. The health insurance policy would therefore not be sufficient; they must have private insurance. This possibility to receive health insurance is voluntary, it does not come as an obligation. In particular, it may affect those sailors who do not go to work in the 180 - day - long seas, such as one month at sea, in one month's land. On shorter notice, they would leave the port again at the very moment when their health insurance would be in place, because we know that this is the case with a month's notice.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U270	Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U271	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! When this bill came to the Riigikogu, I saw that it had been given two dates of entry into force: one due to the aid of the European Union and the other due to the general entry into force. This, of course, is very urgent, the deadline is 1 January, and the Committee on Economic Affairs has made a full effort here. This reading could actually have been in January if we had followed the cycle of our seven working weeks. We really have an interest in moving forward quickly. But my question is rather that if we get this bill over with at one point then it will be at the end of this year or it will take a little more time, whether in fact all the parties, mainly the Maritime Administration, are ready to do so. If this bill is to come into force, then from this point on, a single contact point is needed. Plus, all the other nuances are about to come. Let me ask you this: is the country really ready for this?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U272	Not all authorities are ready. And as you can see from the dates of entry into force, the Tax and Customs Board must create an exception to its registers. This will require an enforcement period of 1 January 2020 instead of 1 January 2019.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U273	Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U274	Minister, I thank you very much for this draft, because it has been promised to our maritime industry for a long time. I understand the bill is complicated. But now we are in such a situation that there are some rules on health insurance in the European Union, and with some countries we have a social security agreement with most countries in the world, unfortunately not, but ships are arriving everywhere. The Riigikogu is currently in a situation where both shipowners and my friends have a lot of comments or something to say about this draft. Understood, they've been waiting a long time for this. Do they still have a chance to get involved? I ask you this: where is this place where we should sit at the table together and discuss it further in order to find a compromise between the different options?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U275	Thank you for your question. It is true that this bill is long awaited. By processing this draft, today's Riigikogu will also implement the promise of the previous Riigikogu, who approved the development plan for Estonian maritime policy, which was set in place as early as 2012. It is also true that trade unions and shipowners have completely conflicting expectations in many respects. And this compromise may be realised in many respects by neither of them being satisfied, but neither of them is saying not to adopt the bill. It should be borne in mind that Estonian trade unions stand for Estonian seafarers, but shipowners operate on world seas. As mentioned earlier, we are talking about dignified crew members, people from distant lands. In the crew of these shipowners, the captain and mate may be Estonian citizens, but the rest of the crew may not, but they are still trying to bring their ship to the Estonian register. So this compromise has been sought for a long time, but the hope of finding it is fragile. The question was, where is this place where these agreements could still be dimmed? I myself see that, on the one hand, it is the Maritime Advisory Board, where both trade unions and shipowners are represented. And completely incontrovertibly, I agree with the points that have been made here before, and this is also the place of the Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu, which has all the means to improve the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U276	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U277	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. This draft provides an example of Europe. In Portugal, such tax distinctions and advantages have allegedly been achieved very quickly in the international register of Madeira, the entry of a whole number of vessels under the Portuguese flag. I understand that this has also inspired Estonia. But my question is this: are these conditions the same as ours, that the sailors of a passenger ship pay the tax as people working on land, but the merchant ships receive huge benefits? Do you have any idea how much inspiration we've been getting from it? It also says that in two years, 300 ships came under their flag.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U278	I understand that Madeira has inspired the authors of the draft explanatory memorandum because it is one of the last newly created registers that have received so many ships. Of course, a very deep analysis of the old registers has also been carried out. I am thinking of our closest neighbours Finland, Sweden and Germany from there too, better and more progressive ideas have been taken over. We are not copying this model of Madeira. Since I see you're the last questioner, I would like to stress one more thing. This request, that we want 300 ships in the Estonian register in seven years, does not mean that we are somehow going to lower the reputation of our flag state, that we do not comply with the international maritime conventions with which we have joined or that we reduce the control of the vessels that have the right to bear the flag of Estonia. All control remains. If we now have a zero-large cargo ship and 300 in the future, this means additional work to the Maritime Administration in particular, but this has been taken into account. That is why, of course, we want the encouragement that will be given if some Member States in the European Union have succeeded in establishing a register where ships have come quickly, but we will not go overboard others with any reduced criteria. Now, about the exact question of whether they have two tax regimes: one for merchant ships and the other for passenger ships, for ships engaged on regular voyages. I honestly don't know that answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U279	Madam Secretary, there are no further questions for you. Thank you. Please speak to Mr Sester, President of the Economic Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U280	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. I will give an overview of what took place in the Committee on Economic Affairs, which we discussed there and which we finally took as decisions. We just met on 5 November on this particular subject. This is then a draft, which bears the number 722, i.e. the draft law amending the flag law of the ship and the law on ship registers initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Income Tax Act and related amendments to other laws. We had also invited the Commission to present this draft. Kadri Simson, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, and Eero Naber, Head of the Development Department of the Maritime Administration, also Katrin Andre, Head of the Maritime Service, and Gerli Ehte from MKM. Several officials of the Ministry of Finance were also present, mainly Deputy Chancellor of Taxation and Customs Policy Dmitri Egorov, as well as two people from the Tax Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance: Head of Department Lemmi Oro and Chief Specialist Kersti Autumn. I'm not going to tell you about the bill section. Mostly, Eero Neighbours, Head of the Development Department of the Maritime Administration, introduced it to us, but this whole introduction has already been through this hall today. I'd rather go to questions and answers. There were many different questions in the Commission. So I will give an overview of the Commission's own work in particular. Some of the questions that were under discussion in the Commission sitting are certainly those that coincide with the questions that have been put today in this Chamber. But now, closer to everything. First of all, Toomas Kivimägi examined whether the legal space of the European Union does not allow passenger ships to be included in the special tax regime or whether it is the choice of the Estonian state. The same question was raised today in this Chamber. Eero Neighbor replied that this was the choice of the Estonian state, i.e. essentially a political decision. Sven Sester wanted to know how to tax a third-country resident who works on a ship flying the flag of Estonia. There's been a little discord. In the beginning, Eero Neighbours stated that if the employer was based in Estonia, the tax liability would apply to the special tax regime, which means that it would be 20% of the 750-euro tax base. Dimitri Egorov stated that this special tax regime did not apply to a resident of a third country. Lemmi Oro added that taxation can be made when the taxpayer is resident in Estonia. If the owner, or employer, is from Estonia, a seaman resident in both Estonia and the European Economic Area will be taxed, but a seaman resident in a third country will not be taxed. So it became very clear. Toomas Kivimägi wanted to know if the non-resident of a third country would be taxed if the employer is located in Estonia, including when the ship is flying a foreign flag. Lemmi Oro replied that no taxation would be made. Kristen Michal asked me to repeat how sailors of different residences will be taxed. Lemmi Oro once again pointed out that if the Estonian employer is a sailor of the European Economic Area, including the Estonian sailor, if all these things have fallen together, then 20% of the income tax paid to him will be withheld from EUR 750. If the worker is a third-country sailor, the tax shall not be withheld. Mr Kivimägi examined whether there were differences between the ship under the Estonian flag and any other ship under the flag if the shipowner is Estonian. Lemmi Oro stated that the residence of the taxpayer, not the flag, is important under the Income Tax Act. The speaker wanted to know whether the Estonian employer would be taxed in the same way when driving under another flag. Lemmi Oro replied that the Income Tax Act imposed the same tax treatment. The flag only plays a role in the Social Tax Act, not in the Income Tax Act. Tarmo Kruusimäe asked whether it would be useful for Estonian shipowners to hire double-citizen sailors who hold a passport from a third country, such as Russia, as in this case they would not have to pay taxes. Lemmi Oro replied that citizenship does not play a role in taxation, and residence is important. If a person is a resident of Estonia, he or she must also pay taxes according to Estonian law. Sven Sester stated that a person can have the nationality of several countries, but he cannot be a resident of several countries at the same time. Piia Schults, our official, examined the status of resident seafarers who live most of their time on board the ship. He wanted to know if they were residents of the country whose flag they work on. Lemmi Oro stated that, for tax purposes, working on a ship is not regarded as working in that country. Residence is the centre of vital interests on land. Toomas Kivimägi once again asked whether it was important for personal income tax to know which country's flag the ship is flying. Lemmi Oro said it doesn't matter. Dmitri Egorov pointed out that in order to benefit from the special tax regime, the ship must be under the flag of the European Economic Area. Because of the freedom of movement, the advantage must not be limited, i.e. imposed only on ships flying the flag of Estonia. Sven Sester stated that the most important role of the special tax regime is certainly that, regardless of the size of the salary, up to EUR 750 is taxed. Arto Aas studied the level of pay for people working on ships. Today, too, there was an additional revision of this issue in this Chamber. Eero Neighbor replied that the average net salary of the persons working on board is indeed EUR 2850 per month. Erki Savisaar wanted to know whether income tax will be collected into the state budget only if a member of the crew is a resident of Estonia. Lemmi Oro replied that the residence of the employer was important. If the employer is resident in Latvia, but the sailor is resident in Estonia, the income tax will be collected in Latvia. Erki Savisaar asked about the conditions under which income tax would be collected in Estonia. Lemmi Oro announced that income tax would be collected in Estonia if the employer, or the owner, is resident in Estonia and the member of the crew is resident in the European Economic Area. He stated that the special tax regime would only apply if Estonian shipowners fly the flag of the country of the European Economic Area. Dmitri Egorov added that only an Estonian employer's subordinate can be taxed on income tax. If it is not an Estonian employer, the Estonian Income Tax Act cannot apply to it. And the subordinate, or sailor, must be resident in the country of the European Economic Area. In addition, the ship must also be under the flag of the State of the European Economic Area. Lemmi Oro also pointed out that the Income Tax Act provides that if someone has earned income outside Estonia, he must declare this income in Estonia. If a sailor has travelled under an employer in another country and his salary has been subject to income tax in accordance with their laws, he should declare his income in Estonia. And if he's been working on a qualifying ship, he's entitled to a €750 tax base. Sven Sester asked if they were gonna ask for money back from another country. Lemmi Oro replied that if you have already paid a payment to another state's budget, it will not be refunded, but if you have paid less taxes than the Estonian state, for example, worked for a company in a country where no income tax is paid at all, you will have to pay taxes from the 750 euros tax base in Estonia. Sven Sester also asked whether social security depended on the flag of the ship. (First we spoke in the Committee on Economic Affairs about income tax, then we reached the Social Tax Block.) Eero Neighbor replied that yes, social security depends on what is being driven under the flag. Dmitri Egorov pointed out that the social security of the country that is the flag of the country is valid. The only exception is that if the employer and the employee are residents of another country, the social security of their country of nationality will apply. Sven Sester wanted to know how social security applies to third-country seafarers. Eero Neighbours reported that social security also applies to third-country seafarers on specialized ships. I would remind you that income tax does not apply to third-country seafarers. Sven Sester examined whether the Estonian state would pay a pension to third-country seafarers in the future. Dmitri Egorov replied that if third-country sailors have worked under the Estonian flag for 15 years and paid for 15 years pension insurance share of social tax, they are entitled to Estonian pension. So how many conditions must be met. Kadri Simson added that this is an obligation to be covered at European level. The contribution to social tax insurance can be left optional, but it is compulsory to pay the part of pension insurance if the work is carried out under the flag of the European Union. Erki Savisaar studied the pension that sailors from third countries would receive. Eero Neighbor replied that in this case they would receive a minimum pension. Sven Sester wanted to know if the tonnage tax was new in this context in Estonia. Eero Neighbor replied that in Europe such a tax is common in itself, but in Estonia it really is a novel solution. Mr. Kivimägi has examined the link between this tax and what the ships under the flag are. Eero Neighbor replied that these are Estonian resident companies, which is why the tax is independent of the flag. However, the implicit requirement is that at least 60% of ships must be flying the flag of the countries of the European Economic Area. The debate continued. Sven Sester asked if the problem now is that Estonian self-owners have registered their ships to other countries. Eero Neighbor replied that this bill really wants to ensure that shipping operators and employers are established in Estonia. Kersti Autumn stated that it was important for tonnage tax to distinguish between income generated by tonnage-related activities and other income earned by the company by other activities. You can't put these two together. Kadri Samson added that the retained profits remain under the current tax rules. The question was, if you have already made a profit with previous activities before going to that tonnage tax. Sven Sester wanted to know how dividends would be paid in the case of tonnage tax. Dmitri Egorov replied that if this income had come from another European country, it would be tax-free. The company must demonstrate that the income is derived specifically from the tonnage tax. Sven Sester also wanted to know if the ship register had been split in two according to the bill. Eero Neighbor said yes: in the first register there are ships whose shore enterprise is located in Estonia, and in the second register there are ships whose shore company is located abroad. Sven Sester further asked whether the initiator of the draft was of the opinion that the draft should be moved forward, that three readings should be carried out, that the tax provisions would enter into force on receipt of the State aid authorisation and that the Ministry of Finance would confirm that this was possible. The same question came up here in our debate today. Dmitri Egorov replied that this had been done a few times, but the lawyers disagreed. This practice is not fully accepted, as it means that the law is implemented and enforced according to what is written outside the law. However, since this is a relatively specific law for entrepreneurs who should be very familiar with sectoral developments, there are certainly those lawyers who accept such practices. As we see today, the draft is such a design that it can in itself be adopted as a three-reading law and, after adoption, continue the procedures for asking for a European state aid permit. Toomas Kivimägi studied the basis for optimism that by 2025 there will be 300 ships under the Estonian flag. The same thing was up here today. Eero Neighbor reported that, for example, Madeira began from scratch, 300 ships were registered in two years, and now they have 500 ships. The Estonian register is slowing down, as shipping is not used to the administration of taxes. However, Estonia creates such a requirement. Compliance of the Estonian register with the requirements of the Ship Registers Act must be ensured by the effective monitoring service of the Maritime Administration. Finally, Tarmo Kruusimäe wanted to know how this bill fits into the vision of the future. Eero Neighbor replied that the bill was forward-looking because the operator company had to be located somewhere. And when the shipping shore sector comes to Estonia, an environment is created where entrepreneurs are good to come. It also brings in the operating companies. There are currently 10,000 active seamen in Estonia who can come to the shore farms to work. With positive notes, we also adopted decisions within the Commission, which were unanimous, consensual. Our decisions were such: it was first proposed that the first reading be completed today and, secondly, that the deadline for amendments be set at 17 o'clock on 21 November. As I mentioned, we all made these proposals by consensus. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U281	Mr Sven Sester, Chairman of the Economic Commission, there are no questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Reform Party Group, Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U282	Good manager! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Good guests! First of all, I congratulate the authors of this bill. I specifically congratulate the Chair of the Committee on Economic Affairs, who, exceptionally, read out a verbatim report on the whole debate in the committee, in order of questions and their answers. This is something unique and there could be more such presentations in the Riigikogu. Now for the bill itself. This draft, as mentioned by both the Minister and the previous speaker, has been made in a number of governments. It's been done for years, even decades. In fact, not a specific draft has been prepared, but the whole area. I remember that I too sent a letter to the current Chair of the Economic Commission, the Minister for Finance at the time. We sat down long nights at the Ministry of Finance and came to a conclusion on how to proceed. A similar analysis has been prepared. It is good to see that this issue has now come to the Riigikogu from the government and various parties. I think that this principle, which was mentioned by the Minister and which I also pointed out in my question, deserves special emphasis: not only tax incentives are important in this draft and in this area, but everything that concerns registers, the shore sector, etc. is also important. The changes come in quite a number of packages; they do not go beyond the borders of the current coalition and government. This means that, over the years, there will be more of these changes, and this is one very long exercise. And why did I ask about the funding? I know in EAS this funding runs out with this year's number. This means that the current sitting government should also consider how all these activities will be covered. Regulation should also be of high quality. If they come before the Committee on Economic Affairs, there could be fewer disputes and clearer explanations. But I don't want to throw too much pepper here, they've been on issues and they'll come in further discussions. Now, if you look at this discussion of the committee and also at the question of the Chairman of the Riigikogu and the representative of the Social Democrats, Eiki Nestor, which was perhaps a bit of a trade union driven by the spirit of trade unions, the trade unions were not happy with this draft, then I think that this draft, as well as all subsequent drafts, is a compromise between the various interests. However, since this is a very large, thick draft, it may be necessary to consider in the Committee on Economic Affairs whether to hold meetings before the deadline for amendments, which is now 21.11 or postpone it, if necessary, so that all this is getting off the right track and society and different sectors are involved. So, in short, it is not just a tax issue, it is a broader issue, and a large number of changes need to be made here. On behalf of the Reform Party, I can say that, although there were a lot of questions from us, we are optimistic and support progress on this draft. But we also expect that the Maritime Administration and all the other parties involved, including the Minister of Finance and tax specialists, will try to make the answers clearer and more specific. In the Committee on Economic Affairs, there was, I say, a little swimming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U283	Thank you. On behalf of the Isamaa Group, Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U284	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Before I was here as a representative of the Commission and I really gave a more comprehensive overview of what happened in the Commission. As you have noted, there was a long and, in my opinion, constructive debate in the Commission. I thought it would be good for history, too, if we let you know exactly what someone was thinking, how his mind moved. Now I am also able to give some information on behalf of my group. As I said on my first question, the Fatherland itself supports this approach. He has supported various steps in the past in order to increase Estonia's competitiveness, and in fact in different sectors. Today we are talking specifically about shipping, but if we are also looking at any previous activities that have helped to increase Estonia's competitiveness, then we have obviously put our hands on all of them. I am pleased to note that if you look back once in history, the true story, as the previous speaker, Kristen Michal, has said, has been dealt with less intensively and intensively over the years. So it's nice to see this bill here. By now almost two and a half years ago, in 2016, before the summer, we really met at the Ministry of Finance, at that point I as Minister of Finance and Kristen Michal as Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications. At this meeting there were also top specialists in this field, the Director General of the Maritime Administration and the Director General of the Tax Administration, various Vice Chancellors. We agreed that we should start turning on it in a good way. And we've come to the point that this bill is on this table today. A hat in front of the current members of the government who have brought it to this table. I fully agree that this is a compromise, also by looking at the two letters that have already arrived at the Economic Commission and, perhaps, to all members of the Riigikogu, both from trade unions and from the association of boatmasters. I do not exclude that we may receive more letters from the Captains' Club, Logistics and Transit Association, Shipowners' Association, etc. All of them have actually been involved in working groups. We sometimes talk about some of the drafts that this has been done too hasty and without involving the parties. It seems to me that this time we have been in this process for a longer time; the various parties have done so more slowly than faster. All the changes or proposals that have arrived must certainly be reviewed. I do think that, if it is possible to update this draft in a good way, or improve our competitiveness, before becoming a law, so that we can also achieve a greater level of political commitment, the aim should, as a rule, be to achieve consensus, it would be worth making an effort. After all, the ultimate goal should be that, when we turn this bill into a law, we will start some process that, when we sum up, will create a situation where sailors will return to our tax registers and, in addition, there will be completely new ships that we do not see there at the moment. Once again, I think, by feeling it, the atmosphere of today, what everyone has said is that the bill is good in itself. It is a good idea that we are here with today, and this should be taken forward. Fatherland is definitely in favour of this with two hands. I also asked the market players here, after all, for trade unions with different interests, ship owners, etc., which they choose, if you put the fact that we are not going to change anything today, and... Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U285	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U286	... this draft, making changes. If it is necessary to choose between them, this new package of amendments on the table today will certainly be desired. And if they put forward a choice as to whether this package is on the table today or possible additional changes, then these possible additional changes will be requested. It may be expected that with the discussions that we are facing here in the near future under the auspices of the Committee on Economic Affairs, we will be able to take even more steps that will contribute to increasing competitiveness. But I would stress that there must be a greater consensus for this, then we will certainly be discussing this issue. This thing won't stop behind the Fatherland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U287	Thank you. I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 722. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting 722 amendments, including 21 November at 5 p.m. We are done dealing with this item.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U288	The 15th item is the first reading of the draft Act amending the Museum Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Indrek Saare, Minister of Culture of the Chair, please present!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U289	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! This bill amends the provisions on compensation by the State of damage to the owner of an international exhibition in the Museum Act. This system was set up in 2013 to boost international exhibition exchanges. National compensation for damages has been applied, for example, to very popular exhibitions such as 'Michel Sittow'. Estonian painter at European Courts' and 'Aivazovski. In search of the ideal' at the Estonian Art Museum. To date, however, it has become apparent that the term 'forceless forces' used in the current museum law is too abstract. This has created uncertainty in the external partners about which risks are then covered and which are not, and therefore, in addition to the State guarantee or instead, private insurance is often still required. Secondly, it is important for the owners of international exhibitions to also cover damage caused by phenomena which, although classically classified as force majeure, are therefore excluded by the current museum law, but against which it is customary to ensure the organisation of international exhibitions in practice. Such risks include damage caused by natural forces and caused by a terrorist attack during the transport of the exhibition. Therefore, in the Museum Act, we wish to refrain from using the concept of force majeure, to define specifically those risks which are not covered by public damages compensation, and to include the risks that are currently covered by the concept of force majeure among the risks covered by public damages compensation. In the case of such changes, the conclusion of the supplementary insurance contract should no longer be due to the fact that the guarantee of damages provided by the Estonian State is not sufficient according to international exhibition exchange practice. Fortunately, the implementation of the damages system has not cost the state anything so far. No claims for damages have been made during this five-year period and it is not foreseen that the current amendment will significantly increase risks. The security requirements for international exhibitions are very high and the Commission, which is made up of experts at the Ministry of Culture, does not easily share compensation guarantees. However, the amendment will certainly help to bring even more high-level exhibitions to Estonia. Of course, I would ask you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U290	Thank you, Minister. You have questions too. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U291	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. The Free Party Group generally welcomes the amendment introduced by the draft law. But do you know whether the use of this term 'indecent power' has already become an obstacle to the introduction of a foreign exhibition into Estonia, or is it simply known that it is unpleasant?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U292	Thank you. First of all, I thank you very much for the joy of hearing that the Free Party supports this legislative amendment. It is not known to me that something was not quite done. However, we have been able to do less, because we have had to conclude additional insurance contracts to spend money on the essence of putting together the exhibition. For example, last year, this resulted in an additional cost of EUR 30000 for the art museum, which mainly comes into contact with such international exhibitions. This is money that could actually have been made instead of being paid. Since the term is too abstract in international terms, additional insurance contracts had to be introduced.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U293	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U294	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. This concerns the art museum in particular, and there is a long list of 10 points in total, which risks are not compensated for. I bring, for example, the use of biochemical or electromagnetic weapons, rebellion, coup d'état, war, civil war and terrorist acts. Since this is primarily a draft art museum, I ask whether this list is final, why it is like this and what are the risks that are then actually offset. Here is a 'no' principle or a long list. But what do they make up for?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U295	Obviously, international practice may change over time, as well as our knowledge of what this list might contain may be enhanced over time. This bill states that those risks which were not covered and which were previously contained in the law will be included in the regulation after this amendment. This will also provide greater flexibility, if necessary, to clarify the list of these risks.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U296	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U297	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I'll read the explanatory statement and I'd like to know where you are. This is about the same place that you said you were giving up the term 'indeterminate force' because it's too abstract. I will continue to read the same sentence of the summary of content, and it has been said here that you want to make these non-covered risks considerably more precise than they have been so far, extending the State-guaranteed damages compensation also to some of the risks that are considered as force majeure. This is what raises the question of 'even part of the risks that can be understood as force majeure'. What does the word 'part' mean here anyway? I think it makes it even more round than it used to be.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U298	To clarify what is included in it and what is not included in it, this is the same list as the regulation. I can't exactly describe this specificity: I haven't organised any international exhibitions myself in Kumus, I don't know how to go to nuances. I am sure my ladies and gentlemen will be able to talk about this matter to the details. Perhaps even Krista Aru can give much more precise examples. Since force majeure is currently included as an option among those things that are not covered by the damage, the list describing the risks that falls under it and which does not fall under it will be specified. In short, this list seeks to bring it more into line with what is traditionally practiced at international level. As I said, the aim is not to create a situation where we want to bring paintings from Washington, for example, because of this very Sittowi exhibition, but people are reading our law and saying that wait-wait-wait, we understand the wording a little differently: we have the feeling that you are still not covering all the risks that we normally face. And then what's the solution? We're going, silly-silly, to the private insurer, and we're going to say, "Certain those risks," even though in reality we've given this general guarantee anyway. Since there is a lack of nuance in the wording, we are creating a whole series of additional costs that are not relevant in this case. But if you want a more specific answer, I have to ask my colleagues for help to describe exactly where this line is drawn.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U299	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U300	Good manager! Good waitress! I'm still coming back to that last question. I want to ask whether the list of risks that are not covered by compensation is definitive. It's final right now. For example, if someone goes to an art museum and throws acid or something else on a painting, is there no compensation? Or how, for example, is an electromagnetic weapon used to attack a work of art?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U301	Thank you! I must admit that your questions will become so specific that I can only speculate on this subject, but I will not do this better. But I would like to ask my colleagues to answer you in writing what are the cases that could actually occur within this framework.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U302	Mr. Minister, there are no further questions for you. Thank you. Please speak to Heidy Purga, Member of the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U303	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, Preparation for the first reading of this draft was discussed in the Committee on Culture on 22 October, including. After the debate, it was proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda on 7 November. It was decided to appoint a speaker to act as rapporteur for the Governing Commission. I will describe in more detail the debate that took place in the Commission. Indrek Saar, Minister of Culture, Mirjam Rääb, museum adviser of the Ministry of Culture, Karin Ligi, legal adviser and ministerial adviser Maris Sild participated in the discussion of this amendment. As you have heard, the Act on Museums amends the provisions on compensation by the State of damage to the owner of an international exhibition. In order to address the problem, the use of the term "forceless force" is abandoned in this context and the risks not covered by compensation are much more precise than hitherto. Instead of the Museum Act, the Government of the Republic regulation regulating the state compensation of the damage suffered by the owner of the international exhibition is supplemented by a list of risks that are not guaranteed by the State, in order to ensure that the list can be amended more rapidly if necessary. I will now present what has happened in the Commission. Indrek Saar presented the draft to the Commission, which you have just received a very thorough personal overview from the Minister. The representative of the Ministry of Culture added that the concept of 'indeterminate force' provides wider opportunities that our partners from other countries are not accustomed to. The draft therefore provides clarification that meets international standards and facilitates a common understanding of international negotiations. The Committee on Culture unanimously approved the draft and decided to propose to the Assembly that the first reading of the draft be closed and that the deadline for amendments be set at ten working days. Amendments are expected until 5.15 p.m. on 21 November. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U304	Madame Purga, there are no questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 716. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting draft 716 amendments, including 21 November at 5.15 p.m. We have closed the 15th item.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U305	The 16th item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Civil Status Acts Act, Population Register Act and State Fees Act 723 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Andres Anvelt, Minister of the Interior, for your presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U306	Dear Riigikogu! Mr President of the Riigikogu. I have the honour to present today's last two drafts submitted by the Government of the Republic to the Riigikogu. The first is the draft law amending the Civil Status Act, the Population Register Act and the State Fees Act. The purpose of this draft is to introduce amendments and additions necessary for the implementation of the European Union Regulation into Estonian legislation and to correct one of the current deficiencies in the Civil Status Act. More specifically, the European Parliament and the Council have adopted a regulation to promote the free movement of citizens by simplifying the requirements for the submission of certain public documents within the European Union. Under that regulation, a person is issued, at his own request, with a multilingual standard form which a person can submit to another body of a Member State of the European Union without additional translation and apostille requirements. The multilingual form shall be issued together with the certificate or extract from the population register of the family event on which it is based. This will make it easier for people in the European Union. Another important part of the draft is that there is an amendment to the deletion of the father's fictitious name entry from the birth act. According to the regulation in force until 30 June 2010, the mother's statement was that a person who was not really the father of the child could be entered as the father of the child. The mother's first name and mother's last name were entered as the father's names without identification of the parentage. This has led to a situation where a person has been entered as a father by a person with whom he has never had a parentage relationship. Such an entry in the father's name has not been or is currently proof of the parentage of the child from the father. In this draft, we have created an opportunity for both the mother of the child and the adult child themselves to submit an application from the birth act to delete the father's fictitious name. I would stress that such fictitious entries were possible under the old regulation until 30 June 2010. The regulation adopted after 30 June 2010 no longer has such an option. So, in fact, this is rather a correction for the errors of birth certificates issued before 2010. Finally, in order to implement the draft, the Ministry of the Interior will develop software to a certain extent and these costs will be covered by the existing budget of the Ministry. This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Our proposal is to provide for this law as a time of entry into force. Thank you for your attention. I'm waiting for your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U307	Thank you, Mr. Minister of the Interior. You have at least one question. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U308	Good manager and good performer! I heard an interesting detail. My question is how many men have women, without their own knowledge, put on the birth certificate as someone's father, as you mentioned, until 2010. How many men are here in the Republic of Estonia who may have been entered on a birth certificate somewhere as a father, but they do not know it?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U309	Thank you. I do not have such information specifically because the person must express his own desire not to be there. These statistics could be done on the basis of people who have made such a statement. That's it, we don't have any other statistics on this.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U310	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U311	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. In this chapter of the explanation of the effects of the draft legislation, it is also mentioned that this could also lead to an increase in costs for the local government at the beginning of the draft law. Has it been analysed and examined in more detail how much this increase in work volume and also in costs for the municipality could be?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U312	Thank you. I may even have forgotten in my introduction to say that the possibility of local governments being reimbursed from the state budget, I stress. Now, if you give me one second, I'll find this place in my spy right now. Here is what has been said: this amount depends entirely on the need and could be about EUR 10000. But this amount is not significant.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U313	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U314	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. This is such an interesting delicate subject regarding the deletion of the father's entry in this register, if that name is entered before 2010. The previous colleague asked about the number here. My question, rather, is that who can delete that name there, either the descendants, the children, or, for example, the men who are specifically entered there without their knowledge or consent.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U315	This opportunity is still created directly for him, for his father, or for an adult child, if such a problem has been identified there. This is, of course, intended primarily for mothers who now, years later, want to base the name of this birth act and what they know either on evidence that can be obtained today or that can be ruled out.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U316	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U317	Good manager! Good Minister of the Interior! I will continue to do the same. It is not known exactly, as you said, how many men there are who do not know that they have been carried there as a father. But this explanatory memorandum says that the magnitude of the effect is average, but the next sentence is that the frequency of the effect is low. So how do you put these things together? What does this mean that the magnitude of the impact is average, but the frequency of the impact is low?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U318	The fact that the magnitude of the effect is average means that it is undefined: it can be large or small. But the frequency is small in the sense that, in fact, those parents who have wanted to argue about the fatherhood of a child have largely held their debates before. After 2010, i.e. almost nine years, there has been no such misrepresentation. So we don't know that this effect could be big, it could be medium. But theoretically, it can be small because people have had nine years to solve this problem. So it can actually be assumed that there will be no mass deletion of names, because within nine years, adults usually settle all relationships between each other.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U319	Mr. Home Secretary Andres Anvelt, there are no further questions for you. Thank you. Mr Pauri, Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, please speak here for a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U320	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Good minister! The Committee on Legal Affairs held its meeting on 22 October 2018 with 11 members. Andres Anvelt, Minister of the Interior, Kristen Kanarik, Head of the Department of Population Operations at the Ministry of the Interior, Enel Pungas, and Mari Käb, Adviser to the same department. Minister Anvelt presented the content and purpose of draft 723. There was not much debate on this draft, there was only one question. Vilja Thomas asked if the entries of the birth act that were made before 30 June 2010 could be changed. Minister Anvelt replied in the affirmative and added that this should be the case if no one has accepted paternity or if paternity has not been established. Decisions: firstly, to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda on 7 November (consensually), to propose that the first reading be closed (consensually) and that the deadline for amendments be set at 4 p.m. on 21 November (consensually), and that Toomas Paur be appointed rapporteur. That's it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U321	Mr. Paur, there are some questions for you. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U322	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Was there any debate in the Commission on a multilingual standard form? Was there a consensus on the languages to be used in the standard form? And what kind of languages are these, exactly, are they clearly fixed?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U323	As I am the Commission's rapporteur, I must inform you that this issue was not discussed on this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U324	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U325	Good manager! Good waitress! I'll come back to the same thing. Did the Commission discuss this issue of how many men could be put on a birth certificate as a father without their knowledge? Was there a debate on this in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U326	Thank you, questioner!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U327	I simply state, for the sake of the record, that there are only two questions for questioners on this draft. But if Mr. Paur wants to answer, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U328	Thank you, good questioner! I am still reminding you that I am a Commission waitress. This issue was not addressed during the debate on the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U329	Thank you. Monika Haukanõmm.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U330	Thank you, Mr President. Good Commission waitress! We have read this draft explanatory memorandum in one way or another and still do not understand which languages we are talking about. Do you, as a Member of the Commission and as a rapporteur for the Commission, know what languages we are talking about?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U331	Thank you. I still have to tell you for the third time that this was not discussed in the Commission. And since I am a Commission waitress, I am not going to do things that have not been delegated to me.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U332	Mr. Paur, there are no further questions for you. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 723. First reading is complete. I shall set the deadline for the submission of draft amendments, including 21 November at 16 a.m. We are closed on item 16.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U333	17th item, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Population Register Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. Mr. Andres Anvelt, the Secretary of the Interior of the Speaking Chair, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U334	Dear Riigikogu! Mr President of the Riigikogu. I will take a very small step back to the previous draft and say that these are the official languages of the Member States of the European Union. After all, the form contains the name in one language or another. For example, a person writes in Greek on a name. This form is available in all the languages of the European Union and is available electronically. The result is that a person does not have to translate it or apostille it, and another country accepts it. In some countries, this form can also be sent electronically, by the way, for which a fee is provided. One amendment was that exactly as a paper notification requires a state fee of EUR 5 for an electronic notification. I abused the goodness of the Head of the Riigikogu and spoke a little about the second draft. I didn't get the note, thank you! But I am now going to the draft law amending the Population Register Act and the other laws amending it. First of all, I would like to introduce the fact that this draft is, to some extent, a continuation of the full text of the Population Register Act that you have adopted, the honourable assembly, which has shown some shortcomings in the preparation for implementation. These very technical and terminological changes I am reporting to you right now. I will focus in particular on three major changes. Firstly, it is important that the date of expiry of the residence data is postponed by one day by the draft. This amendment concerns, according to the wording of the explanatory memorandum, residence data which, at the legitimate request of the owner, have become residences with the accuracy of the city and district or rural municipality or settlement unit. According to the new Population Register Act, such residence data will cease to be valid upon the entry into force of the Act, i.e. on 1 January 2019. We propose that they expire on 2 January 2019, as this will give local authorities the opportunity to specify the registrations of such persons. And actually, that doesn't mean one day, that 2 January means that the validity of these data will be substantially extended over the whole of next year. The amendment will prevent the negative impact on local government budgets, as they are directly linked to the number of people registered in the municipality by 1 January. In this case, local governments will not have such an impact in 2019 and will have additional time to deal with people's registration. In larger municipalities, where this is a problem, especially in Tallinn, this issue is very actively addressed. A separate web environment "Locational information times" has been created in Tallinn and information has been provided to all people whose contact addresses are known. The second important change concerns the distinction between the Riigikogu and the European Parliament elections of 2019 in the registration of residence data in the population register. If the person's place of residence is missing and entered into the population register with the precision of the local government during the elections of the Riigikogu, the validity of the residence data ends not after the normal 30-day period, but, by way of exception, after four months, if the person has not submitted more specific residence data on his own initiative during that period. Thus, the same data can be used for both elections, and there are fewer electoral concerns. In addition, the draft provides for a clear restriction on access to the data entered in the population register of the minor's child in cases where the court has restricted the right of the parent to access the data, suspended the custody of the parent or totally deprived it of the right of custody. The law expressly defines such a restriction on access and helps to exclude the access of malicious parents to data that they should not have access to anyway, as the relevant judgments have entered into force. Finally, I note that the draft does not entail any additional costs for local authorities or public authorities. As I mentioned earlier, this is precisely the issue of the redistribution of amounts from income tax between local government units in 2019 in the case of local governments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U335	You have questions too. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U336	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, It is, of course, quite intrusive that by moving one date forward by one day, the operations move forward for a whole year, but at the same time it is understandable. But my question is: how many people can we have in Estonia who have defined their place of residence with the precision of the city, district or settlement unit and are perhaps difficult to access and socially helpless? In turn, there may be a layer of people who have actually migrated from these places, perhaps even moved out of Estonia. What could be the real picture of these people?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U337	Thank you. I will be honest with you that when we discussed these clarifications in the Ministry, I, too, at first, felt that as a 'common consumer', it was just a single day. But it actually means one day of the year. According to this one day, 1 January, income tax is calculated, which goes from people's payments to the municipality. Now the answer to what you asked for. This number is about 30,000 and it's in decline because it's being very actively dealt with. As an example, we can talk about 17,000 people in Tallinn, 6,000 people in Tartu and 1,000 people in Valga. These are the largest municipalities with these problems. In addition, there are municipalities with fewer numbers. I will tell you right now that, in fact, this problem is not so much about the people in the situation you have mentioned. There are certainly few people who are in a socially weaker position here, but this problem is largely due to the current disorder in the rental market. We are going to go into the new Population Register Act, which you have also adopted. The owner of the dwelling or house from whom the person rents the premises has not agreed to do this residence record. And why has he not accepted it? Because it could mean a tax issue. The new law gives a person the opportunity to make this entry. It can do so if it actually resides there, and require the municipality to comply with this provision, to comply with that requirement. This will certainly bring about a significant reduction in this figure. The second part is definitely those people who have travelled out of here for various reasons and who have lived here on the basis of a residence permit. So sum up, that's what this number is going to be. It is very difficult to point out some kind of separate social group. This problem does not have such features that it can be associated with, for example, people who are materially disadvantaged or older people. Much of this problem may be related to younger people who use rental premises much more actively than the older generation.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U338	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U339	Good manager! Good waitress! I read here that if I want to change my name, I will pay 100 euros as a state fee and the local government official will receive 22 euros and 12 cents for it. But if I want to get married, I'll pay 30 euros for the state fee and the official gets 38 euros and 71 cents. And in the meantime, it's if I want to get a divorce. Where do the scissors come from, for example, when I want to take a new name, much less time, the cost of work and depreciation, as it says here, but how many times more when I get married?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U340	Thank you. The reason is very simple. The application for change of name is accepted through the local government and the entire procedure is longer. If there's a problem, the name committee will handle it. For example, a name may respond to signs, be rare, or so. This is a much longer process under the administration of the Ministry of Interior. Changing our name is not as natural a part of our lives as marriage and, unfortunately, divorce. Marriage and divorce are much easier in practice. These processes concern essentially only entries in the population register. There are some other legal nuances (e.g. time for reflection in the case of separation) and some control activities, but they are all much simpler and more common than when changing names.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U341	Mr. Minister, there are no further questions for you. Thank you. Mr Helmut Hallemaa, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, would you like to present the chair?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U342	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. This draft law amending the Population Register Act really means amending the law that we adopted on 25 October last year, which was due to enter into force on 1 January 2019. We're going to change that now. As the Minister said, he was also in the Commission; it comes from life itself. In fact, the law needs to be clarified, because a number of nuances have emerged during the preparation of its implementation and it needs to be brought into line with other laws, as well as with the real vital needs of the municipal income base, as we have heard here. We discussed this draft in the Commission before the first reading in this Chamber on 22 October. All members of the Commission were present. I am not reading them because there was consensus later, when we made decisions, but then not all the members of the Commission were present. Andres Anvelt, Minister of the Interior, Enel Pungas, Head of the Department of Population Operations of the Ministry of the Interior, and Mari Käb, adviser to the same department, were invited to the meeting. The main changes relating to the draft law amending this law were highlighted by the Minister here and also brought them to the Commission. First, the deletion of the residence address of the municipality or municipality, city or district is postponed by one day. Thus, there will be no drastic changes in the municipal income base, as data relating to personal income tax and equalisation fund will be collected as of 1 January of the night. The second change really concerns the two elections, which are successively: if a person is registered with the accuracy of the municipality, he will be able to use his residence data in both elections if he does not change them himself in the meantime. There was more discussion in the Commission about this very number. Here too was the question of how many people have an address with the precision of the municipality. The Commission was talking about 38,000. It was now talking about 30,000. And the minister in the Commission said that there are, in fact, about 15,000 of them who have probably left Estonia and settled abroad. Enel Pungas, who was an expert in this field even before he entered the Ministry of the Interior, pointed out that this figure was never final and never going to quite zero, because this process is continuing and these people are still coming. He also pointed out that a large number of people who have such addresses have already turned to the Ministry of the Interior before implementing this law and looked into what things they might lose out on social guarantees or services. We are now going in the same direction as in those countries where the residence address relates to social benefits. In fact, that's what makes people fix their place of residence exactly, and he's right. But this number is still quite large in small Estonia: we have several tens of thousands of people living in one city or another. I raised one question myself. This amendment must also be made to § 61 (2), which states that where a person's requests for access to his or her data are unfounded or excessive, in particular because of the repetition of applications, the data issuer may charge a reasonable fee to cover the administrative costs for the release of the data. I wanted to know how or on what basis this is happening, what these rates are and in which specific cases this fee is required. Counsellor of the Ministry Mari Käbi pointed out that this provision came from the European General Data Protection Regulation. The point is that if a person still makes multiple requests, it is justified to impose a fee on him for that which is fixed in the State Fees Act. On Jüri Adams' question, it was answered that there had to be a couple of dozen people in Estonia who really ask for information almost every day. The Minister also spoke in this Chamber about the fact that people will receive a guarantee to register their residence, unless the owners want to register them for paying taxes. In fact, this can be done in the future through the municipality. The extension of the election date, the extension of that period in the Commission, was not mentioned. We also made procedural decisions: firstly, a proposal to include this draft on today's agenda (consensus was put by Hanno Pevkur, Helmut Hallemaa, Jaak Madison, Jüri Adams, Lauri Luik, Marko Pomerants, Mikhail Korb and Peep Aru), a proposal to close the first reading (by 3 members of the Commission: Helmut Hallemaa, Marko Pomerants and Mikhail Korb, there was no one against, there were 5 abstentions) and a deadline of 15 November 2018 at 5.15 (by 3 members of the Commission), a rapporteur was appointed before you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U343	Thank you. You have questions too. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U344	Good manager! Good waitress! Do you understand or did the Commission understand why it is most useful to the state if you want to change your name? You will pay EUR 100: the country will have EUR 78 and EUR 22 will give it to the official. If you want to get married, the state will have to pay extra: you will pay 30 euros of state fees, but the state will have to pay 38 euros to the official. And the divorce is there in the meantime: the country gets EUR 23 out of EUR 50. Why is that, do you understand?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U345	I guess the minister explained it here too. I didn't actually say one thing before. Jüri Adams asked whether the costs of these works would be covered, whether the municipalities would receive funding from the state budget for the population register and also for the civil status procedures. In fact, this is also happening now, because the municipalities had more work to do with the liquidation of the rural governments, and many of these things began to be done by the county centres. But what can I tell you? I think marriage is a sacred thing, and that's what you have to pay for. It's good to have lots of married families, families, and lots of children. I think it is a good thing that the country supports this procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U346	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U347	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! There's one thing that's gonna get messed up for me. All right, we can postpone this date and save some of the municipal revenues that come from income tax, which in turn requires accurate data. It could be one year. But where does this portion of income tax that should go to the municipality, but which, due to an undefined or poorly defined address, lies between the earth and the sky? Suppose this postponement does not come forward more quickly, or we are thinking about 2020 if this problem still arises. This income tax has to be collected somewhere. Where is he?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U348	It's the state's tax, after all. This is the part of the municipal revenue base that we have now restored over the last few years. After all, income tax is still being collected by the state. We are talking about this part of the personal income tax base and equalisation fund that goes to the municipality, for which calculations are made as of 1 January. These population data are taken on the night of 1 January. People are actually moving for a year. So this is the estimated time for municipalities to calculate their income base. And that's the sensible thing to do, because there's probably a lot of these people. During the next year, it will have to be kept in order. As the Minister said, and as we can see on the Internet portals, several large municipalities, where this number is bigger, are dealing with it. I have to say, it was surprising to me that there were so many in Valga. That's a little interesting.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U349	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U350	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I am asking about the Commission's debate. The Commission took one consensual decision and two decisions received three votes in favour and a very large number of abstentions. Did this in any way occur in the Commission's discussions? What were the basic questions that led to such a large number of impartial ones?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U351	Thank you for your question. I'm not quite sure how to answer you. In fact, your own good party and political partner, Jüri Adams, is a classic voter in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs impartially. He is neutral on most issues. There were, in fact, two consensual decisions: today's procedure here, the first reading of this draft, and the fact that I would be the waitress. Indeed, one decision had five impartial ones. This was the proposal to conclude the first reading of the draft. Only Jüri Adams was impartial in this decision on the deadline for amendments. So I don't know what else to say, it didn't work out during the questions and answers. In fact, we had a practical debate. After all, this is the practical draft, essentially the implementing bill or the implementation part of the Population Register Act. But I myself think there will be more of these changes. This Population Register Act, which we adopted at the end of last year, was very voluminous, very thorough and changed quite a number of things and principles.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U352	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U353	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I'm just asking for a verbatim. Since there is a question round, I will formulate the question as follows: do you agree with me that no citizen has to pay an official? People pay the state fee and the state gives it back to the local government, not to the official. It just sounds kind of hollow and bad when we say it's paid to an official. Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U354	Yeah, Helmen, I totally agree with you. There have been a number of other issues here today, where we have talked about bureaucracy and the reduction of officials. I asked you the same thing back there. Actually, we still have to make the difference in what's what, who's who and who's doing what.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-07_U355	Thank you, Honourable Member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Helmut Hallemaa. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 724. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting draft 724 amendments, including 15 November at 5.15 p.m. We have closed the debate on the 17th item and also passed the entire agenda today. Thank you, and have a nice evening, everyone. Closure of the sitting at 6.57 p.m.
