ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-20_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the session of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday of the 9th working week. The time of delivery of the preclaims and enquiries is, as usual, before the verification of presence. So please, hand over the drafts and inquiries. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-20_U2	Dear Deputy Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Conservative People's Party Group, I am going to refer an inquiry to the Minister of Education and Science, Mailis Reps, concerning the invasion of a foreign language in higher education. Absolutely all Estonian universities constantly violate the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, which says that Estonian is the official language of Estonia. It also violates the language law, which § 1 states that this law must ensure that the Estonian language is used as the main language of communication in all areas of public life, including education. Article 22 of the University Act also says that the language of study of the university is Estonian. At the same time, we see more and more subjects being read in foreign languages, particularly English, and learning material becoming increasingly a foreign language. The most problematic thing is that the fact that Estonian students and Estonian professors are sitting in the room has become completely massive in defending degrees, but some strange language is erupted among themselves and it is done in this way to protect them. For example, 2017/18. In the academic year, Estonian public universities have 546 curricula at the first two levels, i.e. Bachelor's and Master's level, 85 of which are English and three languages of instruction in Russian, i.e. only about 84% of the lectures are in Estonian. We are going to ask the Minister five questions. We ask when it is planned to provide higher education in Estonian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-20_U3	There is no further wish to forward drafts or requests for information. The Bureau will, of course, decide on the further procedure of the inquiry that was handed over to us in accordance with the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Before we go to the presence check, I have a few messages. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that when we finish today's working day in this large hall, the meeting of the Estonian Defence Industry Support Group will be convened here under the leadership of Margus Tsahkna. So all of you who are interested in supporting the defence industry are welcome to gather at Margus Tsahkna. I also wanted to thank you all for your pleasant cooperation during these months, when I have had the opportunity to chair the sitting of the Riigikogu. But now the presence check. 78 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-20_U4	We have an item on the agenda today, Bill No 578 of the Act amending the Law on the Organisation of Local Government, initiated by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. At first reading, a member of the Free Party, Andres Herkel, will make a presentation on behalf of the initiators. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-20_U5	Mr. Vice-Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The incentive for this bill was as follows. In fact, we discovered that at the end of the second decade of the 21st century there are local governments in the 100-year-old Republic of Estonia who elementaryly do not respect the rights of the opposition, which are also expressed in the current law. Indeed, we have councils where not all council members are guaranteed the possibility of belonging to the council committee, even though the law has in general terms created such a norm, and we have councils where opposition proposals for non-governmental candidates in the committee are not taken into account, provided that the council members themselves have received a seat on the committees. This draft consists in principle of two additional provisions of § 47 of the Local Government Organisation Act. First, the representatives of a political party or of a list of electoral associations shall be appointed to committees on the basis of requests made by a political party or an electoral association and shall be approved at the chairman's office. I can say that this request by the electoral federations and political parties is currently missing from the law, which may give the impression that the committee will be formed at the discretion of the chairman of the elected committee. The second provision proposed states that the composition of the council committee must take into account the proportion of representatives of the political party and of the electoral union in the council, thus the composition of the council formed on the basis of the election result. Even now, the law has a rule of the same direction, but not so binding, because the word'must' does not exist there. In our view, these two additional provisions must be seen in conjunction, first, and, second, in conjunction with everything that § 47 of the Local Government Organisation Act says about the formation of council committees. Perhaps at the same time a reasonable proportion of the opposition and coalition must be ensured and all the forces represented in the council must have the opportunity to submit their nominations to the chairman of the elected committee when it is set up. At the Ministry of Finance, local government officials spoke in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs about a fairy tale about how taking into account proportion is contrary to the European Charter of Local Government, how it should seem to be an inevitability of a whole number, which has been given separately for each committee. We don't think so. We believe that representation in committees must be proportionate to the way political forces are represented in the council; it should not deviate strongly from it. The opinion of the Government of the Republic actually does not focus at all on how members are presented to committees. The government believes that the binding wording'must take into account the proportion of party and electoral union representatives' is contrary to the Charter. I think that this kind of sending silly talk to civil servants' committees for political reasons should be stopped. The draft with similar content was in the Riigikogu proceedings in 2014. This was changed during the proceedings of the Riigikogu, the wording was softened, the binding word'must' disappeared from the part of the proportion calculation. At the time it was submitted by the Social Democratic Party Group, this party was also a member of the government coalition or government coalition at the time when the draft was being dealt with, and then the Minister of the Interior gave a positive opinion on this draft. It is very clear from this that the assessment depends on which side the author of the draft is present in the Riigikogu. This, in my opinion, is absolutely not correct. What exactly is this Narva case? At the moment that five months have passed since the local elections when the bill was submitted, less time had passed, the Narva Council still has a situation in which no council committee has been formed of 31 council members per month. In total, there are eight representatives of the opposition list in the council, two are guaranteed the possibility of membership of the committee, six council members still do not have this possibility. In our opinion, the coalition that governs the council in general is primarily responsible for the emergence of such situations, as are the chairman and vice-chairmen of the council in person. We are trying to direct them, as far as possible, with the provisions of the law. The Viimsi case is such that, although members of the council are included in the committees, the opposition's proposals for non-voltaic candidates on the committees have not been taken into account at all, which led to this proportion in the Viimsi council at least a few months ago being such that the coalition's to opposition's votes had a ratio of 12: 9, the proportion in the committees was at the same time 45: 8. So the problem is very clearly there. I note here that this is not the first time that it has been necessary, because of these problems, to amend the law on the organisation of local governments. The 2006 amendment guaranteed each member of the Council the right to be a member of the Commission. In 2014, new changes were made, which spoke of the election of the chairman and vice-chairman of the committee together, analogous to the election of the chairmen and vice-chairmen of the committees of the Riigikogu, which generally guarantees the opposition at least the seat of the vice-chairman. It also introduced a clause that the proportion is taken into account, but it is not, as I pointed out above, categorical. That's all I got. Perhaps so much more that two Chancellors of Justice have also pointed out this problem. In response to my written question, Chancellor of Justice Allar Jõks found in 2007 that the principle of democracy should be respected as a fundamental principle of the Constitution, which provides for the proportional and balanced representation of all political forces represented in the Council. In December 2017, Ülle Madise just pointed out, pointing to this problem, that this opposition protection clause, which was categoric in the draft of 2014, became less categorical during the procedure. The big problem is certainly linked to the fact that the opposition of the councils, which have turned to the administrative court, has not benefited from it. It has usually been pointed out that the council has the right to self-order and to submit new proposals. There has been no solution at this level, although the opposition of several councils has also turned to the administrative court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-20_U6	Thank you. Your colleagues also have questions for you. Start Kalle Laane. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-20_U7	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress, first of all, thank you for a thorough presentation in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and also in this Chamber today. I want to ask you about this cognitive side. On the committee, you claimed that you yourself went to Narva and talked to the members of the Narva Council and the Chairman. Why they still do not want to comply with the laws of the Republic of Estonia is the first part of the question. The other side is this. You have made such a editorial amendment that the word 'considered' has been replaced by'must be taken into account' but there are no sanctions. Does this lead to our goal or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-20_U8	Thank you. I think that first of all, we will be getting closer to the goal when we talk about this problem. While the Special Anti-Corruption Commission was in Narva and met with representatives of the Council and the Government, this problem naturally emerged alongside all other issues, all the more so since the opposition leader, Katri Raik, also participated in this meeting. I can refer to the words of the Chairman of the Narva Council, Jefimov, who intervened in the Russian language during half the conversation and stated that he does not understand at all how the guarantee of opposition rights in the council is linked to the anti-corruption issue. That was one side of the answer. On the other hand, Mr Fyodorov, a member of the council and of the audit committee, presented his reasoning about the fact that the law may be written, but the members of the Narva council simply do not like these opposition representatives and are not prepared to vote for them. Simply put, this approach was something like that. This led me to see all the more that if the chairmen of the committee themselves did not think of asking the opposition who their representatives were, there could be a rule in the text of the law that all electoral associations and political parties represented in the council would be able to submit their applications to the chairman of the elected committee when it was set up.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-20_U9	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-20_U10	Honourable President! Respectable waitress! There is one committee where opposition representation and balance is particularly important, this is the Committee on Reviews. Have you examined the situation in the most recently elected audit committees across Estonia and what are the trends here?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-20_U11	Thank you. I do not have all the statistics in Estonia, but in very many places it is good practice that the management of the audit committee is given to the opposition, as well as the management of at least two committees in the Riigikogu; these are the special committee on state budget control and the special committee on anti-corruption. In general, it is a practice that the leadership of this committee is entrusted to the opposition, and it is very often followed. By the way, in the context of the formation of all these other committees, this has actually been followed in Viimsi. The Committees of Review are special in that they are made up of only elected members of the Council and cannot be brought in from outside the Council. Speaking of the effectiveness of audit committees, I think this picture is quite different across Estonia. In very many cases, I would like a better and stronger level, perhaps also the right to order audits from elsewhere, because if the audit committee does not have the same resources as the government and if the members of the committee do not have professional qualifications, then, frankly, control will certainly be difficult. One of the links that I still remember because of this question is that there is one draft in the proceedings of the Riigikogu that has been initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the basis of the proposals of the Chancellor of Justice. Some may say that it does not need to be changed so radically. There is a question of whether it would be necessary to restrict the directors and deputy directors of the institutions administered by the municipality, the members of the foundations, etc. boards and boards of directors so that they could not be the chairmen or vice-chairmen of the council, nor should they be members of the audit committee. I think that such a restriction would certainly be appropriate at the very least in determining the membership of the audit committees, because in a very large number of places it has happened that there are people appointed to the audit committee who control themselves or the heads of agencies in similar positions. This certainly does not produce the best result. There are certainly cultural differences between Ida-Virumaa and other Estonia. If Jõhvi has at least the position of Vice-Chairman of the Audit Committee in the opposition's hands, then the Audit Committee in Narva is in the hands of the Coalition alone. In Kohtla-Järve, there was a debate about the third member's relationship with the opposition or coalition. It became clear quite quickly, among other things, that if the legislative amendment currently proposed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs were to be implemented, the council would have to set up a second audit committee, which would no longer be composed of the same members.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-20_U12	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-20_U13	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! You have mentioned in today's presentation that the problem is active and dominant in Viimsi and Narva. Are there any other municipalities where there are such, say, issues relating to the violation of the rights of the opposition? Would you like to introduce a little more substance to what's going on in the Viimsi? It is one of the largest municipalities next to the capital, where democracy could be well-developed, but rumors on the one hand and on the other are appalling. What are the reasons why Viimsi acts as it does?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-20_U14	Thank you for your question. In Viimsi, it is probably one of the most prominent local government leaders in Estonia: a former member of the European Commission is an elder in the rural municipality, and the respected Taavi Kotka should be directly responsible for the situation on the council. I don't know what caused these people to think that 12 divided by 9 is the same size as 45 divided by 8. It's a big mystery to me, too, and I don't know what it's about. Probably there might be some kind of stubborn attempt at the standards that are generally written in the law, to test the principle that we see what happens. But I would expect there to be plenty of educated and illiterate voters in Viimsi who should certainly not accept such a situation. If it is true that Siim Kallas has tried to make it clear to Ants Erm that 45 divided by 8 is more or less the same as 12 divided by 9, then I would also like to hear these arguments more clearly from the parties involved themselves, because the question mark is very large here. Now I forgot the first part of the question. [[???Hääl saalist: 'Teised omavalitsused.'???]] Other municipalities. In Kohtla-Järve, the opposition has also had a history of difficulties getting into committees. There have been other references here and there in Estonia, but I am not going to name these municipalities. It seems to me even a little that the fact that we asked the Chancellor of Justice about this in the autumn may have led some municipalities to take the initiative to take it a little less. There have been indications from different counties that the representatives of the opposition were not actually taken into account during the first phase of the formation of the committees, but that these errors were subsequently corrected.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-20_U15	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-20_U16	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You said in your speeches that people have not been helped by the Court either. In view of the fact that a council member has absolutely no opportunity to take part in the work of the Commission, this seems, by its very nature, to be a very gross violation, despite the fact that local councils can decide for themselves on their own actions. What is the question, then, that the law should not support certain principles of democracy, not to mention that in some ways it can be said that it is a cultural deprivation?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-20_U17	Thank you. It's a very philosophical question that comes from all of this. I think that in Narva this may be linked, among other things, to the fact that the opposition came to the council very strongly as a result of the elections. There they are accustomed to such a silence that the opposition does not exist, and then such a denial syndrome arose. The other thing is such misguided thinking. I would think of an analogy with the Riigikogu. What would happen to the Board of the Riigikogu, which will be re-elected this week, if the Board, for example, did not approve one or another member of the Riigikogu as a member of the committee, perhaps also members who do not belong to the political groups? The groups usually put forward proposals on how they want their members to be divided into committees. It is clear that the group cannot submit all its members to the same committee, here some kind of proportionate balance principle is taken into account. For this proportionate distribution and the protection of all rights, we certainly have the Bureau of the Riigikogu. Just as in Narva, Mr Jefimov is responsible for this as Chairman of the Council and the Vice-Chairmen of the Council are responsible. If there is no understanding of the basic principles of democracy at this level, then it is very bad. I am glad that when I asked Prime Minister Ratas about this in one briefing, he made a clear assessment that this is not the way to go. But I do not really see that the Centre Party itself is somehow able to contain its completely incomprehensible Narva local government leaders on this issue. I will speak once again about the emotions of the meeting of the Special Committee on Corruption with the leaders of the city of Narva and the leader of the opposition, Katri Raigi. To tell me the truth, it seemed that, in principle, Mr Jefimov and Mr Fyodorov were alone in their categorical position. It seemed to me that the city secretary didn't share their understanding, even to me, that mayor Mr. Tammiste didn't really share their understanding. There is hope that it will grow out of itself sometime. But as I said at the outset, the end of the second decade of the 21st century is, and the Republic of Estonia is 100 years old. We should not tolerate this in any way. The Riigikogu should also give a signal here, even in the form of this bill, that these things must not continue or continue in this way. But then Mr Jefimov and Mr Fyodorov have enough allies on the council of Narva to whom they have been able to sell this incomprehensible position.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-20_U18	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-20_U19	Thank you. Mr. Waitress! The law of two chairs has a number of shortcomings, but it also has its pluses. This is because the culture of the Riigikogu has some influence on the councils. You have withdrawn yourself from running for councils, which is why I may not ask the right addressee, but still. By supporting this draft of yours, I ask whether you have looked at this culture more broadly, in other respects. The practice of opposition is quite shocking in several areas at the Tallinn Council. Culture in councils is very different from what we have discussed in the Riigikogu. Have you tried to analyse these Rules more widely and to expand the subject of today a little bit?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-20_U20	Thank you for your question. I'm sure there's something I didn't say in the report above. In a very large number of cases, the problem of how the council forms these committees and how these proposals move can be solved by an adequate basic regulation of the municipality. The Chancellor of Justice had one example of the fact that in some municipalities the Statute of the Honorary Citizen is laid down in much more depth than the way committees are set up in the Council. In Tallinn, I think the problem is that very many of the members of the council are financially dependent on these same municipal positions and all kinds of councils. But as for this most acute problem, Narva's problem, I do not see Mr Stalnukhin here. Obviously, the positive effects of the two chairs that you have highlighted in the question must be asked by him. But it doesn't look like he could or wouldn't have realized it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-20_U21	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-20_U22	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! The ultimate aim of this bill is to improve political culture in the country as a whole, but the earlier changes to the Local Government Organisation Act have also served precisely this great purpose. Have these earlier changes and clarifications contributed to the improvement of our political culture? So, based on this earlier experience, can we hope that this bill will contribute in a way?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-20_U23	Thank you for your question. One way or another, to create a cultural bill... I'm telling myself a little bit back here, but it's not really, and a hundred percent doesn't get it. It may not always be the best way to solve every little thing to change the law. However, I think that this clearly stated clarification in 2006 that each member of the Council must be able to participate as a member in at least one committee is important. And speaking of the last amendment that was made at the end of the previous term, perhaps it is most important to draw attention to what I said once that the chairmen and vice-chairmen of the council, the chairmen and vice-chairmen of the committees will be elected together, so that the ruling coalition cannot take all the positions, both those of the chairmen and those of the vice-chairmen, by separate votes. I know that there has been a lot of confusion here and there when the vice-president resigns and that will turn out to be the chairman. This is some completely new situation in the municipal council, it doesn't make sense, it gives rise to demand. However, in principle, it is still a clause for the protection of the opposition, which may be useful after a longer period of time than is used to it. In Ida-Virumaa, I also received feedback that it has given the opposition some opportunity to be closer to it in decision-making. The vice-chairmen must, in general, be taken into account by the chairmen of the committees; in the past, there was not even one.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-20_U24	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-20_U25	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You have worked very hard on this bill, and you have a lot of information. I come to the effect of this law. You predict that this will reduce the number of respondents to the administrative court. Can we expand it a little bit? How many of these appeals to administrative courts are there, and what effect has this had so far?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-20_U26	Thank you. As I said above, this effect is usually that the Administrative Court considers that it is not the court's decision-making power and that the Council itself has to get its affairs straight, and then it tries to appeal more and more. There have been more of these examples during this electoral cycle, I think Rae was once and has been here and there have been outstanding examples of both Viimsi and Narva, who have both tried to go to court. I do not dare to confirm this now, whether Kohtla-Järve, perhaps Mr Korb knows better, or whether it was earlier. There's been a lot of them.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-20_U27	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-20_U28	In my folk tradition at home, I'm from Tori is a character like an old-fashioned man who was asked what to do when a child is 12 years old but can't read. He said, "Hurry up, make a new baby, see if it can do it right now. 'This is the same person I sometimes see in the Riigikogu, when instead of improving the existing system, it is found that it would be better to do something new. The people of Tartu City Council discussed the idea of this draft and found it almost offensive, for example, to this council, because all these principles have indeed been implemented there. Would it not be more appropriate, however, to strengthen the control mechanism so that where you can see the error, you can find it there and find a procedural mechanism that will help to correct the error, rather than to make a new law for everything, as you have just said, right now?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-20_U29	Thank you. First of all, I think that those who follow good practices and customs need not be offended when someone else is reminded of them. But in Narva, as well as in Kohtla-Järve and other examples, the resource that your party has, Mr Black, should certainly be used. After all, they are mostly members of the Centre Party who do so. I don't know if you have any way of turning to the Honorary Court or somehow reminding yourself that this is not the way or should not be the case. I also had a question for the Prime Minister. When looking at his polite manners, it is very difficult at first glance to understand what ties him to the members of the Narva Council, yet the people who made these decisions at the Narva Council are just as much members of the Central Party. So I'd expect your help here first and foremost.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-20_U30	Helmut Hallemaa, your turn, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-20_U31	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress, I thank you for two thorough presentations. I'm sure there is a problem, but I don't know if you had any idea of my question when you already said that it's not always possible to change culture by law, fix it. I'm asking if this is the best way for us to just change the wording here, maybe it's more important, more important that we train people. On one thing, I'm asking you, what do you mean? This democratic approach is quite interesting that the Centre Party should say what must be done by the City Council of Narva. In fact, the people of any local government council will choose on the spot, the people elected by the people will decide on the council who, where and where they will be placed, and the mayor will also be appointed. I'm going to ask you the last thing about this proportion. We also discussed this in the committee: what do you mean and whether it should be decided and put in place by the chairman of the committee, the chairman of the council or the council, and what is the basis for this proportion?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-20_U32	Thank you for your question. I am referring once again to the scholastics we have heard here, just as keeping such a proportion in the political division of the council would mean that if there is one member of the council from some list, it must have one place in all committees and that this proportion is meant to correspond to integers. I can assure you that the proportion would probably not be a problem even if Viimsi council's proportion of 12: 9 would correspond to the proportion of representation in committees, say 45: 28. A little out of place, but it would not raise such a question as 45: 8. I would advise you to take that proportion in this sense with common sense and not to go and calculate it with integers. As far as this is concerned, I do not know what recommendations I should give here to the Centre Party, I would rather not give, but it is within the power of all of us that we can all together and the different political forces can think separately about what could be good practice in relations between opposition and coalition in the wider public administration or in the local government council. Maybe we haven't talked about it enough.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-20_U33	Well, Hatter, your second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-20_U34	Good vice chairman! Good waitress! You are one of the longest-standing members of the Riigikogu, and you may be able to tell me why it is written in the law that the chairman of the council commission will present the committee for approval to the council, if any. Although culture has gone so far in this Parliament, if the chairmen of the committees were to be an intermediate filter, we would not have any committees put together. This level, I think, has reached the level of councils. Would it not be right for the council to have the sole right to decide without any filter, based on the proposals of the lists itself?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-20_U35	Thank you. I have been dealing with these matters here for a long time, but not long enough for me to remember putting together the first version of the Local Government Organisation Act and exactly where it came from that the councils first elect the chairmen to the committees and then the chairman presents the committee to the council for approval. However, it is important to take into account this practice, which is quite long-term in Estonia, that the council committees generally involve specialists and alert people who are not part of the council. Some of them may have been running for election, have not been able to get to the council, but on their list they are valued, they are wanted to be seen in the composition of committees, and some may not have even been nominated at all. This gives the elected chairman a considerable margin of discretion when it comes to the composition of the committee. We have actually taken one very small step here so that it can get an input from the political forces that one or the other of them is proposing to be a member of the Commission. As for the fact that the local council could work like the Riigikogu, where the political groups and committees that are immediately formed come together first, the management board approves them and then the committees start to elect their chairman, it may be possible for them to work well in large local governments, but it would probably lose the value of involving non-governmental people in council committees. Last week I got this information, I don't know, maybe Andres Ammas can comment on whether it's true or not. But it was very surprising when I heard from a member of Haapsalu's council that things were arranged in Haapsalu so that the council committees were, first, very few and, second, they were made up only of council members. In general, this seems very exceptional in Estonia. Where exactly did it come from, I couldn't answer it, maybe Jüri Adams could answer it better, who might remember it. Certainly a system similar to that of the Riigikogu would, on the one hand, better guarantee the rights of the opposition, but, on the other hand, it would be rather awkward to continue this practice in such a case, which I think is right for the council committees to include people outside the council.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-20_U36	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-20_U37	Thank you, good vice chairman. Dear waitress, I have examined in detail the minutes of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for the meeting in which it was decided that the draft had to be rejected. The protocol still gave the impression that the problem would be understood. At the same time, the decision to reject the draft was completely incomprehensible. Obviously, the official position on why such a decision was taken is put forward by a good Commission waitress. I'm asking for your reflection why it was still rejected. Is it a sufficient argument that the Government of the Republic does not support the draft, or should we not get too involved in local government issues, it seems very strange, because with different laws we do it all the time anyway, or is it justified that committees suddenly become incapacitated when they are too large? What is your opinion on why this bill was actually rejected?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-20_U38	Thank you. When it comes to the autonomy and right of self-regulation of local authorities, it must be said that the whole administrative-territorial reform was, in fact, a far more important violation of this principle, and yet it was found that these objectives would also allow for such interference. I have already pointed out that, when you look at the assessment of a rather analogous draft during the composition of another government and the previous Riigikogu, it all seems rather schizophrenic. I quite often submit drafts here on behalf of the opposition, and I do have a request to the representatives of the coalition that, you know, stop putting this officials in an embarrassing position where they have to express embarrassing views. What forced the Members of the Commission to vote as they did? The truth is, everyone who opened their mouths admitted that there was a problem here. On the basis of today's questions, it seems to me that it is generally seen that there is a problem. The question must then be asked, one by one, why was the Commission so voted on. Let us hope that there will be a different vote in this Chamber. One of the arguments that sounded like a moment ago was that you'd be dealing with bigger things than this correction.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-20_U39	Dmitri Dmitriev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-20_U40	Thank you. Good colleague! Speaking of Ida-Virumaa, you emphasised Narva and Kohtla-Järve in your presentation. I'm going to widen your horizons a little bit. In the area of Lyganus, where the character of the Reform Party is at the head and the opposition is actually 45% of the council members, some members of the opposition in the Commission were never allowed, including the audit committee. Do we also have to ask the Prime Minister here what is going on, or do we still have to focus on § 47 of the KOKS and the same point that says that the proportion of political parties and representatives of electoral alliances in the council is taken into account in the composition of the council committee? Do we need to talk about improving political culture or to ensure a certain control mechanism for this point to be met?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-20_U41	Thank you for broadening my horizons about Lyganus! I even remember something. There was a Lyganus problem somewhere in Ida-Virus. Our committee did not reach all the municipalities; we went to the largest ones. But to be honest, we have highlighted this problem in order for it to be spoken and noted, and then for those places where there is an analogous problem to come forward. If this is the case with Lyganus, this problem certainly deserves to be raised. I think that raising these problems should not be linked solely to who or which party or electoral union is in the coalition that does not grant rights to the opposition, but the question must be raised in such a way as to put an end to this practice in the Estonian municipalities.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-20_U42	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-20_U43	Thank you, Mr. Waitress. I haven't been involved in COKS. I think that Mart Nutt is the person in the group who knows the most about this area. But it is clear that this law has been problematic since the beginning, and in 25 years there has been no government coalition that could have erected this task to try to write a new and possibly uncontroversial law on the organisation of local government. Among the various issues of this draft is the question of the legal role that the chairman of the committee, the chairman originally appointed, has in choosing the composition of the committee. Should it be understood that he or she has the right to veto and that a full council is not entitled to make changes or to make additions if they consider that an important person is not on the list proposed by the chairman of the committee?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-20_U44	Thank you. I think that the Council has every right to leave this, let us say, a very one-way Commission simply unconfirmed. Well, then the chairman of the committee will come to the next council meeting with a different list and then you will be able to look at this problem again.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-20_U45	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-20_U46	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable waitress! You had this Viimsi council in your teeth several times. I remember this council meeting when I myself, as Chairman of the Committee on Budgets and Development, presented the list of committees to the Council for approval. Eighteen members were on the council, and I received 18 votes in favour. The list I presented also included a representative of the opposition. You've been to larger municipalities, you've been looking into it on the ground, and there's been an interview. What kind of went wrong? And why haven't you come here to tell me how we should act? It is a question of political culture. This thing can be corrected. If something is very wrong, you can also correct it before it enters into force as a law. Why don't you tell me what we've done wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-20_U47	Thank you, Mr. Sõerd. We talked about this when we asked the question to Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madis. I think I even mentioned your name in that review. I haven't done it before today. I know that Mr Sõerd is a member of the Viimsi Vallavolikogu. But I don't think you were in the hall at the time. So that's how it was. Based on what I know, I think you're gonna have to discuss with the opposition members of the Viimsi Council exactly how this went. Yes, one of the members of the opposition in the council you probably have on the committee. The story has been told to me this way, I can mediate it here for the verbatim and tell you how I've been told, then you can check it for your own memory. Indeed, the opposition confirmed the first set-up of committees in the vote, as those formations were presented either by you or by someone else's chairman, in the hope that their candidates would probably have been taken into account in the other committees. When we reached the second, third or fourth, I don't remember exactly which committee, there was a mistake and there was no more vote in favour. Finally, when it came to the understanding of how these things as a whole were designed by the coalition in the council, some committees were voted against. But once again, I wasn't there, the way it was, you can tell or you can tell the other council members.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-20_U48	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-20_U49	Thank you. Good colleague! When you were sitting by the wall on the IRL team, which for years wasn't in opposition, you didn't talk about election ethics. That's a note. But I read your bill carefully and understood that your proposal provides an opportunity not to hold elections at all. Let's just say that the parties write a statement that they want so many seats on the council and that the seats are proportional to those who have written these statements. But I want to remind you that the elections are competitions and who is better performing there, it will be an opportunity to organise the work of the council. I would like to see the list of the Free Party in the next election on Kohtla-Järve, which you will talk about a lot.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-20_U50	Thank you. With or without the Free Party, I understand that the opposition is entirely present in the Kohtla-Järve Council. Mr Odines was at all the meetings and was not at all satisfied with the distributions that had arisen there. As far as I am concerned, I think that my views in this Chamber have been rather consistent. It is true that the Social Democratic Party has previously highlighted this particular issue here and before... I do not dare to say, on the basis of my memory, who first highlighted the right of council members to belong to committees, but Mr Nestor, who has a long memory, perhaps remembers it and mentions it in his question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-20_U51	Now it's time for Eiki Nestor. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-20_U52	Thank you. Because of that long memory, I'm asking. The question here is, how much can the Riigikogu interfere with the right of the local government council to organise itself? But wouldn't you remind the people in the hall of the text in force?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-20_U53	Thank you. Yes, excerpts from § 47 of the current text, which should concern these subjects. First of all, 'Every member of the council has the right to belong to at least one commission. The other members of the committee shall be approved by the chairman of the committee. ' There is no such pursuit of places by the forces represented. Secondly, § 47 (13): 'The composition of the Volikogu commission shall take into account the proportion of political parties and representatives of the electoral federations in the council. 'If the Chancellor of Justice had not pointed out that the modality of this provision became softer in the course of the proceedings in 2014 and the word'must' disappeared, then I would not have honestly thought of that in order to strengthen this wording. But we are of the opinion that stronger wording may be more helpful.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-20_U54	Valeri Korb, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-20_U55	I want to talk again about Kohtla-Järve, which Mr Andres Herkel is talking about a lot today. All members of the opposition are members of the committees there. So let's think about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-20_U56	Thank you. Now I don't know exactly how the history of this problem is. Among the two most outstanding examples, I have not mentioned Kohtla-Järve. However, I do remember that, as far as the audit committee is concerned, there was an argument in Kohtla-Järve about whether the third member, the Reform Party, was a member of the opposition or coalition. The people in the hall had completely different views. It also became apparent that the audit committee was largely composed of people involved in city-dependent institutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-20_U57	Good waitress, thank you! No more questions for you. Helmut Hallemaa will co-report on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-20_U58	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, I already thanked Andres Herkel once again for his thorough reports. As a Commission rapporteur, I am not going to bring to you this part of today's debate or of the way that the Commission has been doing. The Commission examined the draft law amending the KOKS, the Local Government Organisation Act, on 12 March. The draft itself was submitted on 16 January. The government had made its own assessment of this draft, which was unsupportive, on 15 February. The committee was chaired by Marko Pomerants and all the members of the committee were present, with the exception of Jüri Adams, who was replaced by Andres Herkel. He also made a presentation on the subject. In addition, Olivia Tellet, Legal Adviser to the Regional Administrative Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, and Counsellor Kersten Kattai were present on the Commission, of course there were also good advisers to our committee. The subject was dealt with with about the same content and mood as the answer to questions in this Chamber today, it was quite a wide range of options. Like here, I, and in addition, Tiit Terik and Arto Aas, pointed out in their questions that this is actually a cultural issue and that there is indeed a problem. In various nuances, I asked whether the initiators did not think that the draft law violated the self-regulation rights of the municipalities, which is granted both by our constitution and by the European Charter for Local Government and by Article 6 (1) thereof, which actually protects the internal organisation of the municipality and also the establishment of internal structures. As a result, it is probably softer and probably better. There was also talk about which committees should be included here. In fact, the practice of municipalities is that several temporary committees also work throughout the council, at least youth councils and senior councils in several municipalities. In essence, they have in other respects the duties and role of a permanent committee, except that all members are usually outside the Council. As a result of Rein Randver's question, there was also the question of whether there is an overview of which municipalities do not take the political balance requirement into account. These three municipalities have already been rejected here, and in the Commission, Andres Herkel brought them out. Olivia Talle, of the Ministry of Finance, claimed that the Ministry of Finance had been consulted in particular on the fact that a member of the council had not received the committee he wished for, not on the fact that he had not been able to become a member of the Commission at all, but on the fact that he had not received the requested committee. The question of Arto Asa had the same content, as Kalle Laane now asked here. The first and second paragraphs of this bill do not provide for sanctions. If proportionality is not respected and if a council member is entitled to be a member of the Commission, but there are no sanctions, then in fact, the amendment does not have a very large role to play. Olivia Taltud highlighted the position of the Government of the Republic. The government discussed this draft in February and decided not to support it. The main argument was that Article 6 (1) of the European Charter on Local Government provides for the establishment of internal organisation and structures of municipalities, as well as the setting up of committees. In fact, in previous years, several drafts have dealt with these issues in this Chamber, and then the debate has been conducted. At the end of 2014, the draft KOKS Amendment Act 602 was underway by the Social Democratic Party Group. At that time, it was even at issue that, in addition to political forces, political parties and electoral federations, individual candidates or individuals elected to the council could also request their appointment on the committees. So this debate is over. In fact, the Commission's general sense was that there really is a problem, but this culture should be tried to change by other means. I asked myself how much the change of the wording would change in real life and just in legal terms. In fact, if there are no sanctions, there will be little change. At the end of the committee's discussion, Arto Aas took note of this topic, which was also marked by Andres Herkel, that the committees include representatives of the city government in Tallinn. With our northern neighbours, in fact, the executive power is represented much more widely in the legislative bodies, nor are two chairs enough; in fact, there are representatives of the government on three chairs, not to mention the representatives of the Eduskunna, or Parliament. The regional councils to which they are entitled are now also elected. The members of the success queen are also representatives of the executive power, or government. So these practices are very different in the world. Personally, I have expressed my opinion in the Commission, and I am also expressing my opinion here, or even my concern here, that I am from a very long self-governing background and that I still belong to Viljandi City Council, leading the Commission there, that we are trying to regulate the functioning of the municipality more and more, also through a number of statements. The municipality, both rural municipalities and cities, still has a constitutional institution, and according to the European Charter of Local Government, in many respects the municipality has a pretty high level of self-regulation and the right and obligation to act on behalf of the people under their mandate and the resulting responsibility. Finally, the Commission made, of course, procedural decisions. We decided that we would take this matter under discussion today as an item on the agenda (consensus), and that it was also a consensual decision to appoint a rapporteur before you. The Commission decided to reject the draft, with 6 members against it (Marko Pomerants, Mart Nutt, Rein Randver, Tiit Terik, Mikhail Korb and Helmut Hallemaa), Mr Andres Herkel and Mr Arto Aas, with two abstentions, against it. Thank you for listening. I'm ready to answer questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-20_U59	Krista Arul has this question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-20_U60	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You mentioned that the debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs was that political culture should be tried by other means. Certainly, when talking about the Charter of Self-government and the right of local governments, you specified and discussed what could be meant by these other instruments. If this was not mentioned in the Commission, perhaps you can, given your long-standing self-governing career, yourself bring out some of these other resources.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-20_U61	These'some other means'... We did not talk about this for very long, or almost nothing, in the debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. But culture still depends on the specific place, the specific people and the specific collections. I did not say before that this issue has not come up today and after these elections, and it does not, however, only concern the three municipalities mentioned. Here the municipality of Lyganus has already been mentioned and there are other such places, and there have also been problems in these so-called cultural municipalities with interpreting and following the same proportion. We have to agree what we consider to be proportion. Having sat on both sides of my own skin, I have also felt that the proportion can be calculated differently: one percentage is received in elections, and then, unfortunately, it suffers from the loss of voting rights, the proportion of council members gets out of place, and later it gets out of place in committees. This certainly depends on the people who have been elected to the council and on these debates, discussions and other methods. I dare say that the Viljandi Council, too, has actually ignored this proportion in the appointment and approval of the members of the committees. It was precisely because of the establishment of committees four years ago that some of the council members left the council because they were not satisfied with what was being proposed and what was the proportionate distribution at that point. It worked, and things went right. So I guess that depends on the methods. I have said that, fortunately in this Chamber today, there is actually more democracy on some issues. Even the same night sitting that is cursed and cursed is a pretty good opportunity for the minority to prove something, to discuss something more than could be done without this possibility.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-20_U62	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-20_U63	Thank you! Good waitress! I heard the word 'punishment'. You repeatedly said that there was no point in amending the law and putting such a point in it unless there was a sanction, that what would happen if... But right now it is exactly the same situation that there is no sanction, and actually nothing is going to happen. That's when you have to change the law if it doesn't work. There are also courts that can enforce justice, etc. Why don't you explain what you meant by no punishment?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-20_U64	No, I actually introduced the Commission's debate. Mr Aas, Member of the Commission, referred to this issue in the Commission. Each law must also be part of the organisation, including the sanctioning party, otherwise the law does not make sense. I would say that today, too, COKS and the existing regulations are taken into account and that they simply need to be lived or more. I think that the steps and moves that have been taken on one side or on the other side, whether it is a coalition or an opposition, or a majority and a minority, have brought up the subject, the subject is being dealt with, and it will certainly change, I think, culture in one way or another. But I still think that, above all, it must depend on the activities taking place in the places and on the functioning of the people elected in the places themselves. In fact, as has been said here, or has been said earlier on the subject of audit committees, we should not always talk about this one bad word and link everything to this bad issue, but actually these committees and their members need education and training. The same applies to the further training and information of very many council members, especially new ones, but why not already long-term members.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-20_U65	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-20_U66	Mr. Hallemaa! I was very pleased that you mentioned in your report that the aim is still to achieve a good situation in practical life, not in the text of the law. I am very much in favour of that. Now we have a decrease in the number of local government units and, consequently, the number of councils in Estonia, but we still have nearly 100, and no matter what the future brings, there are at least dozens of councils. It is quite clear that the work culture will always be different. Even if only one, two or three local government councils are out of order with culture, that is certainly not right. You say that an amendment is unlikely to produce the desired effect. What would be the other principal methods for the final elimination of this so-called site of pain?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-20_U67	Well, these methods are very different, as has already been said, but in law these things and areas are sufficiently regulated, I dare say. This was also the view of the Commission. One thing I have pointed out in this report and said in the Commission; the word 'proportion' is also defined in the draft in such a way that, in fact, it is not quite stated and even clearly stated. This proportion can be interpreted very differently and several municipalities have interpreted differently. It also came out of the questions and answers that the chairman of the committee, at least in the municipality where I live, and in many municipalities with whom I have been in contact, is not the one who sets up the committee for himself, but, in the case of coalition governments, still proposes the coalition, the rules will be agreed on the entire council, and all committees will be built together. Olivia Taltude also pointed out in the Commission, as a result of the government's discussion, that, if it has not been regulated in this way, only opposition representatives could be present in one committee and they would all be appointed there. I still think today's law is enough. A good colleague, Adams, mentioned that COKS has different sides. Given that the municipality is such a peculiar collection, that it has constitutional protection, that it is protected in many respects by the European Charter for Local Government, certain of these different approaches will probably remain in place and will not be able to reach a quite satisfactory position on all sides. This is the kind of law that has different things just inevitably inside.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-20_U68	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-20_U69	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I raised this problem in my report and I will ask it now. There are quite a number of opposition ideas and drafts in the proceedings of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and the position of the Government of the Republic is often asked about them, which is then mediated by the Ministry of Justice or, in this case, by officials dealing with local governments in the Ministry of Finance. This example still disturbs me that, in essence, on the same approach, officials give one position in the case of one coalition and one government, but when the opposition raises the problem in another, there is a contradiction with the European Charter for Local Government. I think it's very mediocre. Can we not put an end to this humiliation of officials with such ordered artificial views?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-20_U70	It now goes from the current topic and directly out of the frame of this presentation. But I think that the subject of the legislative amendment is certainly also a political issue. Each bill will certainly solve political issues in addition to specific operational matters, and any such issue will require political choice. In this case, this choice has been made long ago in KOKS and I believe that KOKS regulates the functioning of the municipalities well enough. We certainly need to talk to local governments about a number of matters concerning local governments or almost all matters concerning local governments. It is good that there is a national government union, so it is much easier, more concrete and better to organise and regulate this communication.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-20_U71	Good waitress, no more questions for you. The commission has proposed a draft 578... [[A voice from the hall.]] Yes, indeed, I rushed a little ahead of events. I'm sorry! It's time for us to negotiate. The Free Party has wished to speak during the negotiations. Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-20_U72	Good vice chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, As a rule, the Free Party maintains such a line that the fewer regulations, the better. This is how we have behaved very often. And another thing, as so-called hardened democrats, is that indeed, the local government should have the greatest possible decision-making and self-control and self-management. But by following the administrative reform in Estonia and looking at what has happened as a result of the administrative reform and the last local elections in Estonia, we have seen this, say this, a regrettable picture that things are very, very bad in many local governments with political culture. This is not only about the appointment of members of committees, but also about many other issues, as well as many issues arising from the appointment of members of committees, from playing back and forth, when, for example, the vice-chairman turns down his place, etc. There's a lot of legal joking and stuff. What made us do this bill? Perhaps, above all, one rural municipality, Viimsi Parish next to Tallinn, which could represent the 'newest political culture'. Its leader, the mayor, is a man who belongs to the Estonian political stars, a serious star, and its council is led by a person who is one of the e-governance spokespersons. They would require a completely different approach, a new, transparent, very democratic approach. But what's going on in there is, frankly, a disgrace. Viimsi was certainly one of the main drivers of this bill. So what's going on in Viimsi? Until then, no draft tabled by the opposition has even been examined there. When you look at the content of these drafts, it is particularly amazing that, for example, one of the opposition's drafts states that video transmissions should be made from the meetings of the Viimsi Council, recorded and recorded. The person who is the chairman of the council and, in fact, the leader of the e-state, transparent and online state has done everything in his power to prevent this kind of draft from being discussed there, i.e. the management of Viimsi will not become transparent and part of the e-state. Despite the Commission's proposal to reject this draft, I nevertheless call on you to vote in favour of the draft and to pay attention to the possibility of a change in political culture in local authorities. Finally, if everyone thinks that we, or the political culture of the Riigikogu, are very good, then the wall between the opposition and the coalition is one of the things that needs to be demolished. In a sense, this wall also serves as an example for local governments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-20_U73	The political groups have no more requests to speak, so I will close the negotiations. Now we can really go to the proposal of the lead committee. The proposal of the lead committee is to reject draft 578 at first reading. Of course, we need to vote it through. Honourable Riigikogu, the commission has proposed to reject the draft 578 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 42 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour and 33 against. Draft 578 has been rejected at first reading. We are done with the item on the agenda. I wish you the strength to work in committees. I'll see you tomorrow at Question Time. Have a good day. Closure of the sitting at 11.24 a.m.
