ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U1	Hi! Power! Question Time. Incoming check, please! 35 of us are here right now. Government members in Question Time: Minister of Culture Indrek Saar in the role of Prime Minister, Rene Tammis, Minister of Enterprise and Information Technology, and Tarmo Tamm, Minister of Rural Affairs. I will give you an opportunity to ask you a more specific question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U2	The first answer is Indrek Saar and the first questioner is Jürgen Ligi. Please, Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U3	Thank you. Mr. Acting Prime Minister! Your party partner, Riina Sikkut, wrote on Monday that giving a diligent vaccinator a tax credit would increase the stratification. He writes about it for a long time and affirms that if health behaviour and taxes are linked, it will increase inequality, the poorest will pay more and the weaker will lose, the stronger will win. Please tell me whether this is the general position of your party and, if so, how you justify it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U4	Dear Riigikogu! Honourable questioner, thank you for your question. Indeed, Riina Sikkut commented on the possible programme position of 200 movements in Estonia, which concerns the influence of people's health behaviour by means of tax incentives. The Minister for Health and Labour relied on the general position of experts in the field. When we are talking about the direction of health behaviour, we should, above all, use those instruments that do not pose a potential risk of further stratification. The logic is that people with higher levels of education and higher incomes generally have better health because they are better aware of the right health behaviour. If, with tax incentives, we put people whose health is perhaps slightly worse and whose incomes are lower under additional pressure, the result is that there is a chain reaction: parents do not have the money to buy healthy food for children, and so healthy eating habits do not develop. In fact, therefore, we do not encourage conscious health behaviour, but create the risk of further stratification.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U5	Jürgen Ligi, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U6	Thank you. I very much agree with what you and Riina Sikkut are saying. However, we have had an argument here where you always blame me for the exact same arguments when it comes to the special preferential tax, which, in the event of exemption, will also benefit more prosperous, healthier, stronger, because they can afford to have paid health behaviour, if I may say so. Riina Sikkut also says nicely that the state shouldn't tell a person in advance whether he's going to choir practice or practice. And he is also talking about generally available sports opportunities, such as health trails, and, of course, healthy eating. Now tell me where you think the logic is! One tax credit you always applaud is that it's a very good thing at last. But with exactly the same effect, the social tax benefit at individual level you consider to increase stratification and support stronger ones. Where's the logic?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U7	Thank you. First of all, as Minister of Culture, I hope that there will be an ideal situation: that a person will go to both the choir and practice, that his spirit will be fed and he will also move enough. But to come to the question of abolishing the so-called "special preferential tax" on health costs compensated by the employer, the position is clear: this possibility must be offered to all workers. The employer must not make the distinction that he offers it only to those who, in addition to other motivations, would like to offer additional opportunities to go swimming or to take part in gym or public sports events. If he does something like that, he has to offer opportunities to all his employees. This is the way to ensure that no stratification occurs. I very much hope that you will help employers to call on this opportunity to take advantage of and to discuss the issue with employers when the budget is planned. This is a great opportunity that the country has created after long discussions. All employers can encourage the health behaviour of their employees thanks to this exemption, which we also happily recommend and kindly introduce.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U8	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, in his duties as Prime Minister. I came up with this more general question of the philosophy of tax policy, motivated by the wording of Mr Ligi's question. What should be the purpose of the government's tax policy? Is it to get cover for the state budget? Or that to avoid stratification? Or is it to revive the economic environment from a distant perspective? And please tell me what the Government of the Republic has done to try to use the current quite favourable economic context to ensure long-term development. And does the government or your party plan to take any steps to reduce the share of labour taxes in particular?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U10	Thank you for your question. The government must, of course, take both aspects into account when designing the budget: both that the expenditure of the state budget is covered by revenue, that is to say, the financial side, and that, by means of choices concerning the state budget, it is necessary to shape the possible environment in which people operate, bearing in mind, among other things, what this question of Question Time is about: to reduce the stratification. The current government has done so with great force. One of the most excellent examples is the support of families with children, which has tripled over the last five years, the time that social democrats have participated in government coalitions. In 2014, EUR 100 million was allocated, now EUR 300 million. And we see very important results concerning child poverty. Over 20,000 children have been helped out of poverty during this time. And we also see that birth rates have started to rise recently. So I think the government has done everything in its rightful manner by introducing taxes and distributing tax money. Ultimately, when we are talking about the sustainability of the country, it is investment in our people and the living environment that guarantees it. At the same time, I am pleased that, with the current economic growth, the state budget is in balance and the government debt burden will also decrease next year. Finally, let me rejoice with you that, despite some panic that has occasionally possessed some opposition politicians, the Tax Foundation of the United States has reaffirmed in its recent ranking that the OECD countries' tax competitiveness index is the world leader.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U11	With this knowledge, we will end the discussion on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U12	Minister Rene of Tamm answers, asks Küllik Kübarsepp. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U13	Thank you, good Chairman. If I'm not mistaken, welcome to Question Time One, Minister. Estonia's big and resounding reputational sign is an e-governance. At the same time, the Supreme Court has observed that the business register is a mandatory IT channel for communicating with the state via the Internet. I mean the annual reports. But a lot is said about the fact that Estonia.ee, which should be our central portal, is very unfriendly about the user, and the business register exactly the same. Who is the minister responsible for developing our IT channels as a whole? Is that you? We have heard here from various ministers that we are constantly creating new information systems, but the reality is that there is no overview and no understanding of what anyone is doing, who is responsible and how.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U14	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Good questioner! Indeed, I thank you very much for raising this important issue. It's very close to my heart, too. In Estonia, responsibility for information systems and e-services is structured in such a way that each service provider is responsible for its work in a decentralised way. The role of MKM and I as Minister of Enterprise and IT is to show direction and support. But these are such soft persuasion measures. Last spring, the government adopted a regulation on the basis of the organisation of services and information management. One important principle in this is the one-off provision of data. If we allocate funds from the Structural Funds to this work, I will be able to direct IT developments in other areas, but in general these opportunities are limited. This is certainly one of the places where I believe that the central role should be increased and the rights should be increased. But when we talk about e-state development, it is important that e-state development should move towards a proactive, invisible country. As regards how the user experiences of people and businesses can be improved as comprehensively as possible, here I am pleased to announce that in the coming weeks we will be going to the government with a plan for this, and then I will put forward my concrete proposals on how to move forward.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U15	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U16	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! I think the situation is so bad now that more central leadership is needed already in order to understand what user-friendliness is. It is likely that there is no such competence in all areas. But I come to another subject, zero bureaucracy, which your predecessor, the minister's chair, has been promising. Unfortunately, we have not yet seen any good results. The explanatory memorandum to the Draft State Budget Act 2019 states very generally on page 122: the zero bureaucracy project continues under the leadership of the Task Force. What does that mean in budgetary terms? There's a single line that doesn't have a budget number behind it. What does that really mean? Is it paying a salary to an x number of people, or is it a substantial job? I imagine this project is very related to our e-technological solutions?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U17	Thank you, too, for this question. This question, too, is very close to my heart. Specifically, the implementation of proposals to reduce red tape has also been carried out by each ministry individually and these costs are reflected in the budgets of these ministries. Consequently, there is no specific figure in the state budget. The task force's activities have been funded with the aim of increasing awareness of the need to reduce red tape, as well as appropriate inter-ministerial cooperation, support and coordination of concrete proposals, as well as monitoring results. As regards what has been done specifically, a number of permit obligations have been reviewed and proposals have been made to reduce specific permit requirements. That's what's been done. The aim has been to reduce the reporting burden on companies and the internal bureaucracy of the country, as well as issues related to the introduction of zero bureaucracy initiated by the Confederation of Employers. I support a number of good initiatives that have been announced by business in recent days. I, too, believe that, in order to achieve zero bureaucracy more comprehensively, such a large horizontal objective, which is also set out in the business proposals, makes perfect sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U18	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U19	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I was glad to hear that you are going to the government in the coming weeks with very concrete proposals, because all e-governance really needs to be organized and a central overview. Do your proposals also concern this new state-owned data communication or data management company that has run through the media? And how do these proposals relate to, for example, the large research computing infrastructure ETIS and the scientific information system ETIS? Where do they go? Are we doing something separate again, excluding all these ETIS and ETIAS, the large existing central databases?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U20	Thank you for this question, that is a very important question. I believe that, contrary to fragmentation, data should be aggregated more comprehensively so that non-personalised data can be accessed. Businesses and research organisations would then be able to generate new value using them. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications also supports with money an initiative that has started with the Ministry of Social Affairs and whose content is to build applications on health data that can be offered to research institutions and businesses. It is also a prerequisite for this support to not only be limited to the implementation of health data, but also to the use of data from other areas. This is indeed a very important issue and, in my opinion, a subject of little importance so far. As of 2012, there is in fact a requirement that public data should be made available and made available using new applications and research developments.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U21	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U22	Indrek Saar, who is responsible for the Prime Minister's duties, now answers the question posed by Martin Helme. Please, Martin Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U23	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. You are both the Prime Minister's office and the Minister of Culture. In addition to the Riigikogu, I am a member of the ERR Council. Last time in the Council, there was talk about the funding and budget of the ERR, and the Bureau informed us of two things. One was that basically the Ministry of Culture has shown a green light for the construction of a new TV house with a price just below EUR 60 million. And the second thing was that there was an amendment to the ERR Act in preparation, which fixed a certain percentage of tax receipts for the ERR revenue. Like defence expenditure, a fixed level of expenditure is fixed. This model, which they had proposed, would increase the financing of the ERR by around 15% compared to today. I'm asking you how it is. I'd like to know if the Ministry has shown it a green light or not by nodding its heads.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U24	Look how nice it is that we can discuss these matters with a member of the Broadcasting Council. In particular, however, national broadcasting is managed by the Board of Broadcasting. The Minister of Culture is not in charge of national broadcasting. So the strategic plans you're planning should actually be explained to us. But as a servant of the Riigikogu, I am, of course, willing to kindly share with you the information I have. With regard to the green light for the construction of the ERR house, this cannot be said for certain. The government has decided to plan 1.5 million euros from next year's state budget to design a new TV house between the two current radio houses. That would be the optimal solution to the problem. The situation is becoming increasingly critical because the ERR TV house between Gonsior and Faehlmann Streets has been amorated, does not meet the requirements. What's more, this house should be modern. Design provides an opportunity to develop the optimal solution properly and then you can also budget more precisely how much money is needed to actually build. As regards the possible new financing model of the ERR, you may also know that the National Audit Office has stated in its 2015 report that the financing of the ERR is not fully in line with the principles of independence, stability and adequacy. Consequently, I would like to give full credit to the Council of the ERR, the Management Board and the Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu, which is responsible for this area, because they have held discussions on how these matters could best be brought into line with what we mean by independence...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U25	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U26	...under stability and adequacy.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U27	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U28	Thank you. That's why I'm asking the Minister to check if the board is speaking to the council. In short, I do, but I do. The ERR budget for next year is set at more or less EUR 33 million and, if the projects are still different from the other ministries, it will amount to around EUR 40 million. And that's going to increase every year. I have never understood where there is a problem with the stability of funding or what is the problem of independence. And when we talk about increasing the sum by about 15%, I have a question about what it comes from. If you decide from the information given to me by the board, the ministry has basically agreed to it. But who or what will this increase of about 10 million come to the Ministry of Culture's budget at the expense of? And if one of the sub-offices of the Ministry of Culture is guaranteed a fixed amount, what justifies different behaviour with other public institutions, such as the University of Tartu?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U29	Thank you for your question. These models have been applied in different ways in the world. Our model has been that the ERR is financed from the state budget. There are also models that this money is collected in various taxes directly from television viewers or from residents at all in the form of a so-called television or broadcasting tax. Estonia has gone this way. The matter has been discussed over the years, but it has allegedly not been shown that any other route would be better or more acceptable for Estonia. In this context, discussing how to ensure greater independence and greater predictability, what the ERR budget is, I think, is absolutely legitimate and adequate. You can make different choices. As far as I know, having talked to our Lithuanian colleague.. with the Baltic Ministers of Culture, we have had very good cooperation in recent years, so what the ERR is currently proposing is quite much inspired by the Lithuanian model. But again, since I'm not the developer of these principles, I certainly can't explain all the nuances to you. The fact that we fix this amount in the state budget is not a precedent. We've done it somewhere else. For example, the budget for cultural capital is clearly linked to tax receipts. Cultural Endowment is a public institution like the ERR. Under the current system, they must first submit their application to the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Culture will submit it to the Ministry of Finance. At the same time, the Committee on Culture and the ERR Council should make strategic plans. This system may not be the most appropriate one.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U30	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U31	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Surely all public authorities would certainly like to know that they have financial security for long years and that the money they receive is fixed as a percentage. At the moment, we did not actually get the answer as to whether it was decided whether or not the Ministry of Culture was in favour of this idea. We didn't get that answer. But I'm sure everyone would like that kind of fixation. But here's my question. Unlike Martin, I do not belong to the National Broadcasting Council and do not know what has been said there. Nevertheless, I can of course say that the National Broadcasting Council does not share the money. But the question I'm asking relates to the fact that a million and a half million, as I understand it, are allocated to design, to determine the design conditions. Is it not the possible risk that this money will simply be thrown to the wind? They're gonna do research, but they're gonna say we're still not gonna build up.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U32	I really hope not. I very much hope that this fundamental government decision, which I hope will be followed by the Riigikogu's decision through the approval of the state budget, will mean that we will proceed with this option. I hope that all these long years of discussing the extent to which we should actually build the ERR buildings have been sufficient for us to now understand exactly what we are doing, the extent to which we are doing and the optimum and also the long-term sensible action. Since we can maintain this complex and on the other hand, it offers sufficient development opportunities for Estonian National Broadcasting. As for the new possible financing principle, i.e. the amendment of the law, I must remind you here, a good member of the Riigikogu, that the laws will be amended by the Riigikogu in the Republic of Estonia. That's not what ministries do. The Ministry of Culture cannot change this law. Therefore, the Ministry of Culture cannot make any promise that we will do so in one form or another. However, as I have already said, as Minister of Culture, I think that in a situation where the National Audit Office pointed out already in 2015 that the current model may not be the best, it is very reasonable for us to hold discussions and agree on this subject, which is still the best to ensure independence, certainty and the opportunity to develop the ERR programmes sufficiently. Contrary to what Mr Helme has said, for example, I believe that public broadcasting is very important in a democratic country and must not be disbanded under any circumstances. It must remain in the future and it must work well because it is an elementary part of a single democratic state.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U33	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U34	Asks Anne Sulling, answers Rene Tamm, Minister of Entrepreneurship and Information Technology. Anne Sulling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U35	Good President! Good Minister of Entrepreneurship! The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications is preparing an interim report on the progress of smart specialisation growth areas. On the basis of the data presented in the working version of this report, it appears that the economic performance of companies that cooperated with research institutions in the fields of eHealth and the enhancement of agricultural commodities has been worse than that of companies that have not cooperated with research institutions. My question is, how would you explain it? Why do companies that cooperate with research institutions in Estonia achieve worse economic results than those who do not cooperate with research institutions? Do you think there is something wrong with our innovation system and, if so, what? Why have we come to such results?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U36	Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Honourable questioner! Thank you for this question. It's a very important subject. It is true that, in the interim study report, the study is in fact only in its initial phase.. it was possible to point out that there had been a decline in a few niches. It must first be borne in mind that R &amp; D investment is delayed: the investment will only pay off in a few years. Companies that invest in R &amp; D are at first faced with higher costs, but they hope that in the future there will be high revenues. It should also be borne in mind that this is an interim report on the process of drawing up the report, not a finalised and final document. It lacks qualitative data, only quantitative data. You referred to two sectors. The number of companies operating in the cyber field or in the cyber security field is very low and can easily have an impact on their own financial performance. These companies are very few in the sample. In another area, the food industry, but the difference is statistically insignificant. But certainly more needs to be done if innovation policies are to be stepped up. On the one hand, several analyses have been launched and various strategies have been put together, on the other hand, I myself have come up with some new initiatives.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U37	Anne Sulling, please, a more specific question!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U38	I would say that perhaps part of this results is due to the fact that Estonia's small size simply does not manage to do cutting-edge applied science in all areas. My question, however, is this: do you consider that the state should establish a support measure to motivate Estonian companies to cooperate with research institutions in other parts of the world in order to develop new innovative products and services? Are you taking steps in this direction?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U39	Thank you, too, for this question. We are now having a mid-term review of the measures. I'm sure that's where we get the good inputs that we should change. At the same time, I note that the measures offered by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, such as the company's development programme, still provide an opportunity to cooperate with research institutions in other countries. Of course, the fact is that Estonia is small and in some areas we lack experts. It is therefore entirely justified that there is cooperation with scientists and experts from other countries. There are none in some areas in Estonia. At the same time, we must certainly stand up for the development of Estonian research institutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U40	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U41	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, As a new minister, how do you generally assess whether our research institutions and businesses are sufficiently cooperating with each other? Is this cooperation expected and beneficial for both parties?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U42	Thank you, too, for this very good question. I think there's room for improvement. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications analyses, in cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Research as well as with entrepreneurs, how to better strategically manage research and development and innovation policy. There are currently mid-term evaluations of a number of measures, assessment of technological development centres, development shares, etc. An international study 'Per review of the Estonian research and innovation system' will be completed at the beginning of next year, which should provide us with a good input for decision-making. In cooperation with business, we are currently discussing a new initiative, which is the innovation advisors for professional associations. These people should help to mediate this expertise and solve bottlenecks.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U43	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U44	Krista Aru asks, Minister of Culture Indrek Saar responds to the Prime Minister's duties. Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U45	Mr President! Minister of Culture in his duties as Prime Minister. I'm still asking you as Minister of Culture. The network of public libraries has always been very strong in Estonia. I dare say that for a hundred years these libraries have played an educational and social role, as well as an entertaining and, above all, cultural role. Since the administrative reform, there have been signals from several areas that the public is afraid that the library will be closed. Does the Ministry of Culture have a picture of what happens to libraries in the local government administration? Will our network of public libraries remain firm and progressive?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U46	Thank you, good questioner, for your concern. Just like you, as Minister of Culture, I am interested in keeping the library network strong and the libraries having ample opportunity to develop. Indeed, we already have a very good network historically. If I am not mistaken, there are 926 libraries in Estonia, of which just over 500 are public libraries, about 350 school libraries and 40 specialised and scientific libraries. The way these libraries work, the questioner must know well. We share these tasks with local governments and with the Ministry of Education and Research for school and research libraries. This can also be concluded from the scheme of which libraries we have. Of course, there has always been fear that after the administrative reform, libraries might be shut down. But until then, we have no knowledge that this would have led to the closure of libraries. At the same time, we must bear in mind that local authorities have often fixed some obligations for four years in their accession agreements. And these accession agreements will no longer apply after the next election. Then perhaps much more on the agenda is the question of what happens next, whether the current situation will survive or whether there will be some very important changes. In order to be prepared, we have carried out an in-depth analysis that should be completed by the end of this year. Next year, we want to come up with a plan for the amendment of the People's Library Act and by 2020 we could have a revised law before Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U47	Now, the minister can still talk, because Krista Aru is asking for more. Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U48	Mr President, thank you. Dear Minister, I will also address the issue of school libraries in relation to the subject of the library network, because it has sounded more in the media. The school library and, perhaps, the neighbouring public library should cooperate more closely with each other. Is there anything the Ministry of Culture can do after this great analysis? And is there any way that the legislator can contribute to making our library network, the school library and the public library merged, or some other forms still exist, still to survive? What are the possibilities of the Ministry of Culture here?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U49	Thank you for your question. Yeah, the Ministry of Culture can do something. We're going to do the analysis I mentioned, and we're going to propose possible changes to the People's Libraries Act. But what libraries already do is increasingly cooperate between libraries, regardless of the type of libraries they are. I think this is actually one of the key issues when we look at the general trends and what are the different good examples from other parts of the world. Thursday night I met librarians in Rakvere during their annual conference and received a lot of feedback. Their discussion, which contained many examples from the Nordic countries, was very inspiring. This is definitely part of the input we take into account when doing this analysis and the development plan. The aim is to look for the largest possible common ground not only between classical library services, i.e. book lending and reading in the library, but also between all kinds of other services. In fact, we have very good examples in Estonia of how many different functions are grouped together. For example, when you come to the library, you can also go shopping and use some sort of mail service, which is currently a very topical issue. Or you can go directly to the library from the youth centre or vice versa. It must be thought that this room, where you finally take the book and where you come in contact with reading, must be as attractive as possible to different generations and target groups.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U50	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U51	Good manager! Good minister! My question is a follow-up to Krista Aru's question. The subject is school libraries. It was only recently that examples were given that schools would close libraries. The last example was that it was replaced by a robotics class. School and library are not just educational institutions. I see a place here very clearly for cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Research where this habit will otherwise develop. How do you feel when libraries disappear from schools and something else comes in place? This other stuff may be very important, but maybe it shouldn't replace the library. How do you feel about that? Do you intend to take any steps in this regard with the Minister of Education and Research? And can you give us a good example of how the library goes along with the times? Can anything replace a classic library in the future? Do you have any good examples from any country?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U52	Thank you for your question. I very much hope that there will be more robotics classes in Estonia. The system of additional support for activities of interest, which has been implemented since last autumn, has provided a number of opportunities for this. When introducing technical areas in this way, it is also possible for young people who are not interested in traditional sports or cultural activities to participate in regular guided activities. I very much hope that, perhaps, is one of the possible examples that robotics class and library can physically be the same place. When a young man in his shell age comes into a robotic circle, he may also have a book on the subject and maybe a fictional work on it. In this way, he may find his way to longer texts and regular reading habits. That is exactly the kind of synergy that could be sought, and that is what we want to find when we analyse the current state of play and the challenges that libraries face. As for the examples, there is a simple example that I described in some ways when I answered Krista Aru. Voorel just now it's the Mustvee parish, before it was the Saare parish has all these things in one house together. There's a youth center, there's a library, there's a store, there's a store, there's a family doctor center, and there's a barber. The municipality has very wisely planned this centre: you can get all these things from one place. And it actually creates synergies that captures all these services, all the activities that are offered there.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U53	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U54	Indrek Saar, Minister of Culture in charge of the Prime Minister's role, now answers the question posed by Monika Haukanõm. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U55	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister of Culture in the role of Prime Minister! Let's continue the discussion of the possibility of life on Earth. Regarding the closure of 75 post offices, Minister Tammis, who sits next to you, decided to take some time off to analyse this social and regional policy idea. I congratulate him on that. At the same time, we are about to go to 55 to 70 pharmacies, and the country stores have either closed their doors or are about to close them. Here is the ironic contradiction that both shops and pharmacies are willing to voluntarily play a socio-regional political role, and that is what they are doing. My question is very simple. We consider it very important not to close post offices, and the government is afraid to do so, but at the same time, the closure of pharmacies and country shops is not feared. Why is that?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U56	Thank you for that question. I'm worried about the exact same things with you. The possibility of life on land should be dealt with systematically by the state, and it is time for it to be taken very seriously. Everywhere in Estonia it must be possible to live in such a way that the quality of life is not drastically lost. Basic services needed for life in today's world must be provided. But I would like, in addition to the question-setter, to congratulate the business minister of a colleague sitting next to me who took time off when the post offices were closed. The closing decision was obviously made in haste, and I think that we all need further clarity as to what this would actually entail and whether the decisions reached by the Omniva Board have been negotiated with the communities and sufficiently in line with how citizens see developments on the ground. As far as pharmacies are concerned, if you are referring to the fact that some branch pharmacies have to close themselves, it is my understanding that these pharmacies must close themselves in a city where there are more than 4,000 people. Disadvantaged rural areas are not affected by the obligation to close isolated pharmacies. As far as shops are concerned, they are generally private businesses and should specifically seek synergies. In addition to the classical sale of bread, bread and milk, the store is able to offer more and more services, such as parcel services, book lending or, for example, hairdresser or youth centre services, as examples were.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U57	Thank you. Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U58	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! It is a pleasure to hear that you acknowledge and acknowledge the view that life should continue in the countryside as well and that a life worth living requires the availability of various services as close as possible. Looking at the rise in fuel prices and electricity prices, it is clear that distances will become critical if you have to travel more than 20 kilometres. This must be taken seriously, and you also said that you are taking it very seriously. But I would like to hear what the concrete steps that are being taken are. When people listen to us, they want to know how it is possible to provide services in the country, whether it is about pharmacies or shops that are even more important. What is the government planning to do as a matter of urgency so that life does not move away from the country so that, in addition to libraries, shops, pharmacies, kindergartens and all other services remain?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U59	I've described some of the models you can move towards. I very much hope that, as far as Omniva's services are concerned, they will make their decisions with the utmost responsibility and take into account that their steps must rather give people additional opportunities. Often the post office has been held open for a very limited number of hours a day, but since then there are different examples of it, when it has been agreed with the local shopkeeper or the library that there is an open post office, the availability of the service has doubled in hours. The package is not only available in the middle of the day for a few hours, but it is available from morning to evening, so it is also suitable for every working person. What can the country do more widely? This is why the state has undertaken an administrative reform in order to increase the capacity of local authorities to shape their living environment. Next year's budget provides for a tangible increase in the resources of local authorities and they can also take decisions on the availability of services for local people and other conditions for community development.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U60	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U61	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, You rightly said that shops could offer different services, such as filling in the bank and post office, maybe also provide pharmacy services under certain conditions. Unfortunately, as a result of the increase in excise duty and the Latvian alcohol rally, the shops in South Estonia began to close down, and some politicians' reactions have been about that, if the turnover of alcohol and tobacco products in these shops is so high, they have to go down. It has not been a good development that we have had. But I ask you this: is there any good example in Estonia that some country shops have really taken over many functions, not only being a post office, not just a money exchange point, but more? And are there any obstacles to this development that the legislator should know to make certain things smoother? I can't imagine that a store could just as easily become a pharmacy.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U62	Why one or the other service disappears from one region or another can be discussed in one way or another. This is often due to the fact that there are simply no people in the region, demographic changes have taken place so that there is no longer a service for anyone. Indeed, people are so few that it is no longer appropriate to keep a store, even if you make it into a multiservice centre. For life to be preserved in scattered rural areas, it is of course necessary to look at the whole picture in a complex way, and I am pleased that you are drawing attention to this. One objective is certainly to ensure that people have a job in the countryside and that potential entrepreneurs have sufficient infrastructure to create jobs. For example, there must be a proper internet connection, which the state does, investing significant amounts of money in it. But on that point, you need to ask a colleague sitting next to me more specifically. It must also be possible to obtain electrical connections, be normal roads and transport connections etc., etc. But, of course, this is a very detailed debate, all of which the country is actually planning to improve this situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U63	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U64	Dear Riigikogu, we have five more minutes. If anyone wants to ask the ministers in Question Time, please give a signal! There's a wish. Hatter, please! Please also tell me who the minister is to whom the question is addressed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U65	Thank you, Chairman. I ask Tarmo Tammel who has not been able to answer questions today. I wasn't there on Monday, I don't know if you guys would have touched on the subject when you answered the question. But, yes, these summer promises that extraordinary direct payments could start to be paid out earlier have not been fulfilled. It will remain in December or early January. Farmers became interested as soon as they were allowed to pay by 1 October, but the PRIA responded quite quickly with a statement that they did not have this capacity. Why were such promises made, and I also want to ask who is responsible for making such promises?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U66	Thank you. I thank you for this good question, and I also thank the previous questioners, because today's debate was very much about rural areas. I am delighted that we are all affected by the rural issue. However, with regard to the payment of the aid, this has also been the case, with the exception of, yes, direct payments. Transitional payments have been paid out, last year's exceptional aid grants and direct aid are also paid out. This money is normally paid by the end of December. Thus, the previous and previous minister and farmers have agreed that these payments will be paid once a year. In fact, according to the rules of the European Commission, we could pay out money after 15 October and Latvia paid out the first tranche, 70%, already on 16 October. But it has been agreed at the time of the previous minister that it will be paid out once and at the end of the year. In order to change it quickly, a great deal of technical changes would be needed, which would require a great deal of time and money. It's not that simple. But now, at the beginning of December, they will be paid instead of the end of December, so still earlier. But when asked who is responsible, the minister who is standing before you is responsible for this area.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U67	Thank you, members of the government, Indrek Saar, Rene Tamm and Tarmo Tamm! Thank you, Riigikogu! It's been a long time since we've had such a squeaky and polite briefing. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U68	Honourable Riigikogu! Let's start the Wednesday hearing. Who wants to hand over drafts and inquiries? Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U69	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Riigikogu! I am pleased to pass on an enquiry to the Minister of Finance, Toomas Tõnis, on behalf of several parties in the Reform Party, as well as members of some other political parties. We are talking about state budget funding for investments in Eesti Energia. The draft state budget law for next year provides for the allocation of 143 million euros to Eesti Energia. The Ministry of Finance has announced through the media that this is co-financing three investment projects of Eesti Energia, i.e. investments in the distribution network, second, investments in renewable energy and thirdly, investment in preparing the construction of a new oil plant. The Special Committee on State Budget Control met with the management of Eesti Energia on Monday to get, among other things, an overview of the reasons why it is necessary to co-finance the investments of the company from the state budget. The management of Eesti Energia did not convincingly justify to the Commission why these investments need to be financed from the state budget, instead of covering this need with own resources and loans. In fact, Eesti Energia's bonds are on the stock market and Eesti Energia's bonds can also be bought into the European Central Bank's system as part of the asset purchase programme. We are asking whether the Ministry believes that the cash flows, own resources and credit capacity of Eesti Energia are not sufficient to finance investments. Also: Eesti Energia management announced that Auverre would be founded an oil plant worth EUR 200 million, but according to the most optimistic forecast, the construction could not take place until 2021 and 2022. In the coming year, only the project will be planned. Why is it necessary to finance the project from the state budget? We expect the Minister of Finance to answer these questions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U70	I have adopted an inquiry into which we will continue to work under the Home and Working Procedures Act. Incoming check, please! Currently 81 members of the Riigikogu are present in the plenary.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U71	The first on our agenda is the second reading of the Health Services Organisation Act and the Amendment Act (689 SE) initiated by the Social Affairs Committee. Viktor Vassilyev will make a presentation on behalf of the Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U72	Mr. Chairman! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Thus, the second reading of the Health Services Organisation Act and the Amendment Act 689. In the meantime, the Social Affairs Committee has discussed the draft law amending the Health Services Organisation Act and the Pharmaceutical Act at its meeting, which took place on 15 October. No proposals were submitted by the deadline for the amendments and the opinions of the stakeholders expected by 5 October were not submitted either. However, the Commission itself made one proposal as the draft is urgent and the law should enter into force in November. The Commission has decided to make an amendment to the law more quickly in force. The facts are that the expert group that is essentially involved must be given an overview and, in turn, provide the eHealth Network with a recommendation on the launch of the exchange of data. And then the people of the e-health network decide at their regular meeting what happens next. If information is not provided in time, the entire data exchange project will stop and this raises questions in other countries that would like to participate in this project. The Committee on Social Affairs made its own procedural decisions. And namely, to put the draft on the agenda for the second reading of the Riigikogu plenary by 23 October 2018 it was yesterday's date, but yesterday we did not arrive at it, we have reached today, and we have come to propose that the second reading be completed so that we can move on. In the event that the second reading is closed, the committee will propose a third reading at the plenary session of the Riigikogu on 7 November. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U73	Questions for the waitress? They're off because no one wants to ask. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. One amendment has been tabled for draft 689 and there is no problem with it. The second reading of Bill 689 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U74	The first reading of the draft Act amending the Drug Act initiated by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party 656 SE. Hanno Pevkur, the opening waitress, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U75	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to introduce you to the draft law amending the pharmaceutical law. I'll start with whether or not we have a problem. If it isn't, then one bill shouldn't be initiated at all. In my opinion, there has been a problem on the Estonian pharmaceutical market regarding restrictions on the ownership of pharmacies. If we take the pharmaceutical market as a whole, then it is the most regulated market in Estonia. If one of the pharmaceutical companies wishes to enter the Estonian market, it must conclude a price agreement with the country. Once this has been achieved, there will be dealers of medicines in Estonia in the form of wholesalers, who will be subject to clear restrictions to charge a mark-up for one or the other medicinal product. Once the medicine has finally reached the pharmacy, there are restrictions in the retail trade on how much it can be added to one medicine or another. In the pharmacy where the same medicinal product is sold, everything is very precisely regulated: who can be the seller, what are the requirements for the premises and other requirements so that one place with certain sellers can call themselves a pharmacy. In addition, the pharmacy market organisation provides that we may have basic pharmacies and branch pharmacies. Haruaptecs are kind of stuck to the main pharmacies by the umbilical cord. And that is one particular problem that this bill is driven by and that I am about to explain. But let's take it in turn. In short, this draft has two major objectives. First, not to limit property. The pharmaceutical market is already over-regulated by the state and it is not worth setting out exactly who may be the owner of a pharmacy. This restriction should not be imposed by the State. The state imposes restrictions, as I said, on equipment, sellers, outlets and prices. The restriction on ownership is certainly not justified in any way. The big and fundamental starting point for this draft is, in fact, the position of the Competition Authority. The Competition Authority has stated that a restriction on ownership is not justified. The Ministry of Justice, which has formed an opinion on this draft, is also of the same opinion. I will read you only one sentence of this, but you can, of course, all read the entire text yourself in the Riigikogu Information System. 'The best result for the consumer is free competition, where both wholesalers and pharmacies are not subject to restrictions on economic activity. ' The same is true of the Chamber of Commerce. If we are aware of the opinion of the Competition Authority, the Ministry of Justice and the Chamber of Commerce that a specific ownership restriction is not correct, then I believe that the great hall of the Riigikogu must respond to it. Another major problem, which is the law in force on the pharmacy market, will arrive in less than a year's time, i.e. next summer. Namely, the property of the rare pharmacies. Haruaptetee in Estonia, of course, is much less than the main pharmacies. When we talk about the possible closure of branch pharmacies due to restrictions, this is a 50-55-sized pharmacy that could be closed next summer. The representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs at the meeting of the Social Affairs Committee said that this is not a problem Perhaps all over the world this really isn't a big problem, but let's take an example: Ida-Viru County. In Ida-Virumaa, this means closing almost half of the pharmacies. I don't know if the great hall of the Riigikogu perceives the extent of the problem, but if we put half of the pharmacies under a possible hammer in one county, this hall must react. It is our duty to discuss and find a solution to the situation where 14 out of 32 pharmacies in Ida-Virumaa may have to close the doors. This is not a normal situation! And it's actually the same "ownership limit" again. Yes, one possible solution is to postpone the problem. Let's make a small change and push the regulations in force to the same distance as the restrictions imposed on the property of basic pharmacies. But I dare say that is not the solution either. Any game of hide-and-seek with pharmacies or any company's property is not justified. In any case, the pharmaceutical market has already been controlled by the State. These are the main reasons why we all have today amendments to the pharmaceutical law. The main objective is to abolish restrictions on ownership and to prevent the closing of branch pharmacies from becoming a reality in the summer of next year. I am very positively surprised that the Committee on Social Affairs decided to support the first reading of the draft. I hope that doesn't mean that after the first reading, the bill goes off to collect dust in a drawer somewhere. We do not have time for this, ladies and gentlemen. If the next Riigikogu is elected, whoever is not elected will simply not have time to make the necessary changes. Our task, the task of this Riigikogu, is to find a solution to the branch pharmacies as a matter of urgency, but in the long term also to the problem that has been highlighted, I repeat, the Competition Authority, the Ministry of Justice and the Chamber of Commerce. Property need not be limited in Estonia. We limit and regulate what we need to regulate: who can sell in a pharmacy, under what conditions can be sold, what are the drug supplements? It's all ours to regulate, but please let's not restrict property! We are not saying that the owner of a bus company can only be a bus driver, we are not saying that the school owner, if it is a private school, can only be a higher education teacher. Whatever parallels we bring to the property rights of pharmacies are in no way different in that sense regulated. Well, it's adjustable, as I said, the content of the service. In the case of schools, we say what the curriculum needs to be. This country can be told in advance, the content of the learning can be regulated. The state does not have to give the form in advance. I hope that we will get on with this debate to second reading of the draft, that the Committee on Social Affairs will take all the opinions on the table and, if necessary, we will discuss possible changes and make decisions. Then we will not face a situation in the summer of next year where a large number of pharmacies in Estonia must close their doors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U76	Questions for the initiator of the draft. Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U77	Thank you. In the previous composition, it was the Reform Party, but also the IRL and the soccer started this draft and we held many sessions. Everyone approved it, it's a very normal thing. Pharmacies are available in most European countries. I ask: why are you misleading people by saying that the land pharmacies are disappearing? Only branch pharmacies in cities with more than 4 000 inhabitants need to be redesigned. This isn't about the rurals at all, it's all about lies. Moreover, complaints from several companies in the European Commission have been rejected. The Chancellor of Justice has rejected them. We're right now, we're doing the right thing. Totally the right thing! And why do you support pharmacy chains that grab all the pharmacies? We've got two or three of these chains, and there's no new ones, only they're gonna have everything. They dictate everything, including what they put on the shelves. Why are you protecting it? They must be separated!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U78	Thank you. Firstly, I never mentioned land pharmacies in my speech. You've taken that idea from somewhere arbitrary. Secondly, as far as the purpose of this draft is concerned, as I said, the starting point of the draft was the Competition Authority and its understanding of what the pharmacy market should be and of whether the pharmacy is essentially something whose property must be limited. Thirdly, in Estonia, the current law does not prevent the pharmacist from becoming the owner of the pharmacy. Although, indeed, we do not have a large number of pharmacies owned by pharmacists. But once again, this is a fundamental dispute about who might own the pharmacy, and also about whether the state must restrict the circle which may be the owners of the pharmacy. I think Marika Tuus-Laul may also own a pharmacy if she wants to. You don't have to tell the state. If you are the owner of a pharmacy, the person who sells the goods must have a pharmacist's education. Where you sell must be regulated, and what you sell must also be regulated.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U79	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U80	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good waitress! This law, which led to these changes before us, is still a relatively young law. In the meantime, what has changed in a rather short time that the Ministry of Justice and the Competition Authority have taken such a stand? How can it be that the changes have not even come into force, but now there are completely different opinions? Why don't you think about it a little bit?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U81	Thank you. I guess these reasons are related to the fact that if one law is passed, it will live its life. In 2014-2015, various amendments to the law were adopted and their date of entry into force is now coming into force. Of course, there has been some sort of clarification in the market, and there has been an understanding of what legislative changes will bring with them. Consequently, the views of the various parties have also developed. But I dare say that the position of the Competition Authority on this matter has not changed. Their view has always been that property need not be restricted.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U82	Jaanus Marrand, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U83	Thank you! Dear waitress, Refresh my memory a little bit! If I am not mistaken, during the preparation of this law, the Minister of Health and Labour was your own party partner, Urmas Kruuse, and this bill was approved very unanimously in this Chamber. Both your party and everyone else voted in favour. So what's changed in your party's position now? Was it done in a hurry? Did your party minister do a bad job and rush to bring this bill to this hall? Or what is the reason that such a sudden change in the position of your party has taken place? And the second question is that you are constantly speaking here from the point of view of the Competition Authority. In fact, the Competition Authority should, as if it were to monitor compliance with the law, its smaller role should be to say whether the law is right or wrong. The law has to be enforced, but the law hasn't worked right yet. What's the problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U84	Thank you. Over time, many laws have been passed and amended in the large hall. Otherwise, we could say that Parliament is running out of work. Isn't that right? There's no way we're gonna pass a law and let it last 20 or 25 or 50 years. Let's not change anything. Life still brings corrections. On this draft, it is the same that the road that I and many others thought was right at the time and which was chosen is actually causing more problems. And now we have the opportunity to decide in this big hall whether we are taking the risk that 55 branch pharmacies may be closed, whether we are taking this risk and accepting the fact that the regulation of the pharmacy market in Estonia is such that property is limited. We want to regulate content, not form, and allow for freedom of business, economic freedom. These are choices. In time, people gather new information and become wiser. This needs to be addressed. As far as the Competition Authority is concerned, I am aware that the position of the Competition Authority in this matter has not changed. The question isn't whether they think anything about a law. No, the Competition Authority has not expressed its views on any law, but has already sent a letter to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of Social Affairs some time ago, where it drew attention to the problems with the restrictions on the ownership of pharmacies. That's what the Competition Authority has to do. The Ministry of Justice has now also said that the position of the Competition Authority is correct. Undo the information system of the Riigikogu, you will see the draft materials that the Ministry of Justice has said.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U85	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U86	Thank you. However, I would like to recall that the Riigikogu was not entirely unanimous when it adopted this law. There was quite a debate, and there were those who thought otherwise. I also voted against this law. I can believe that the aims of the law were noble and they wanted to be good, but I did not believe that this method would provide a solution. I predicted a number of problems, and they've all come true by now. If you want, you can check the verbatim. Indeed, such a restriction on ownership is relatively unprecedented, does not bring us closer to the objective and creates a lot of confusion. Among other things, the Pharmacies have moved into the name of lawyers. It's also been running through the media that dozens of pharmacies have been written in the name of lawyers. So it's all a fiction that we've somehow solved some kind of problem. But maybe the waitress knows more about what happened in the market.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U87	Thank you. Indeed, there have been some changes on the market, but it has to be acknowledged that it is not large. Of course, all pharmacists, whether they are in the hands of a larger collection of property or a single pharmacist, are waiting for the decision of the large Chamber of Riigikogu on how to proceed. I did not mention that the investments made in Estonia in the establishment of pharmacies, whether in pharmacies or pharmacists, are quite large. Some of them are also made by foreign investors. We know that foreign investors operate in Estonia as one of the largest Lithuanian pharmacy chains, one of the chains which is mainly owned by German investors, and one of the chains which is mainly owned by Estonian investors. And some of the smaller ones are still. In this sense, the range of property is relatively broad. This, of course, gives an additional signal to the public when Estonia says that we are imposing ownership restrictions here. This will certainly affect foreign investors when ownership restrictions come in one area, the entire investment environment in Estonia could get worse. These are all factors that need to be taken into account. We have also mentioned them in our draft explanatory memorandum, referring to foreign investment and the need to protect them. So, yes, we should not want to see such vague ownership relationships on the Estonian business market. And it's not like some lawyer owns a pharmacy somewhere and behind it are different types of debt contracts or concession contracts or whatever other contracts, franchise contracts or whatever anybody calls them. The point is one: one body has been skipped. This shouldn't be our way. It would be a lot easier for everyone to know who owns it. It should also be possible to tell foreign investors that yes, please, you are welcome in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U88	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U89	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good bill waitress! Both the Chancellor of Justice and the Audit Office of the National Audit Office have said that the retail and wholesale market for medicines has grown together in Estonia. This means that pharmacies are a distribution channel for the wholesaler, dominated by the trader's commercial interests, and the role of pharmacist is to realise these commercial interests. When we are now talking about this reform that we did in the previous composition, I would remind you that you strongly supported the reform of the pharmacy, including the fierce support for ownership restrictions. What's with the mood swing today? Please explain!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U90	Thank you. Mr Aas has just said that he did not support this draft. I too, while at the time being a member of the government, not a member of the Riigikogu, did not really vote on these principles in this form. And I predicted about the same as my colleague As: that such hidden forms might come. But once again: when the Riigikogu passed this law in its own time, it was actually intended to take account of the judgment of the Supreme Court. And if now, before the law comes into force, we can see that we have problems, the wise Head of State will try to solve these problems, not risk having nearly half of the pharmacies in Ida-Viru County closed down. The hallmark of a wise Head of State is also that he sometimes recognises his mistakes and is able to respond to the situation in the market. At the moment, it is certainly important that the restriction does not fulfil the objective for which it was originally intended.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U91	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U92	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! First of all, I support this bill. I think it's a good bill. But I also have a question. It is not included in this bill, but do you have any ideas or do you suddenly know that people are thinking of going further in this regard? After all, today in Estonia, we are selling a bit of a look around! - miracle medications. These most wonderful ones are sold through Facebook, a little less wonderful ones are sold in supermarket chains, but ordinary non-prescription drugs cannot be bought at a grocery store. Can't we think about it and change the regulation a little bit to make non-prescription medicines more available outside the pharmacy?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U93	Thank you. The Ministry of Justice, who wrote its opinion on this draft, also states that a more thorough reform of the pharmaceutical market should be carried out, should not be limited to the proposals set out in the draft. We deliberately did not put other topics into this bill to keep the focus on where the shoe squeezes the most. But I'm also saying my personal opinion here. In my opinion, certain types of over-the-counter medicines could be more widely available. How widely and in which group of medicines, this is the subject of a dispute, but such lighter types of over-the-counter medicines could indeed be more accessible. These proposals have also been made by the Chamber of Commerce and others. It would give people better access to medicines, including when pharmacies are closed. We don't have a lot of on-call pharmacies. One is in Tallinn and I think one is in Tartu, but that is the end of it. The availability of medicines can certainly be improved. I also see the possibility of allowing the personal packaging of medicines, which I believe is essential. In general, people should be able to obtain medicines more flexibly, for example, sales through the Internet pharmacy could be much larger than today. The Internet pharmacy is used to a certain extent, but relatively little. I also see that an electronic consultation, a digital consultation, could spread more widely. It is already used in Estonia, but little. There are certainly still ways to make medicines more easily available to people.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U94	Honourable Riigikogu! Here I have a little procedural announcement. The three-member board of the Riigikogu has unanimously decided that we will address the Government of the Republic with a letter announcing that we wish to know the Government's opinion on the drafts initiated by the Riigikogu. We do not want to know the opinion of the various ministries.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U95	It'd still be good to know.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U96	So that's the kind of letter we've sent together. I hope you understand. Let's go! Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U97	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! Several of the things you've said, I agree, but some are not. I think that we have probably gone a little too far with restrictions on ownership, but as far as what you said in the context of this bill is concerned, rather than the better availability of over-the-counter medicines in the future, I would rather be cautious. But I wanted to ask you that when you discussed the initiation of this draft in your group, what debate did you have? Did the people who supported the bill last time come as a surprise that the bill has such implications? And the second question is whether you had a possible compromise in the debate, such as the 'Poland system', where market entrants could be pharmacists and the old ones could have a system that was before the entry into force of this law, perhaps there would be no restrictions. Did you have any such discussions?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U98	Thank you. First of all, Mr President of the Riigikogu, may I say a small rejoinder. However, I think it is appropriate, in itself, for the various ministers to at least add to the government's opinion. The government, of course, is shaping one position, but it would be good for Members to know that there are differences of opinion between the members of the government. A difference of opinion will also help us to continue. Now I come to your questions. Firstly, as far as the group's debate is concerned, I could rhetorically object to the question of how the IRL agreed to the progressive income tax. What power caused the IRL, who has always supported a uniform income tax, to reconsider and support progressive income tax in its group? But okay, that's that. Of course, we discussed different options and principles in the group. Going over to the Polish system was one possible way, but I think this is not the right way. That's because it still doesn't give us a final solution. It would rather anchor the current situation. Given the state of our pharmacy market, given the possible emergence of new pharmacies, given the number of pharmacists in Estonia, their training, I think that this would not actually be the solution. In fact, it is better to have such a simple, clear solution. Consequently, the purpose of the draft is that the property is not restricted. I guess that's it. Or was there something else?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U99	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U100	Thank you. I understand that the main problem with this draft is that some of the authors have grown wiser in the meantime. Very many questioners wonder how this is possible. Well, I haven't gotten any smarter because I was smart and critical of this bill before. But if you continue in the key to this same proposal, how, by the way, do I like to know very much the differences between ministers and, in particular, the Minister of Justice's own explaining that the people who are currently opposed supported it in their own time? And how do we explain the position of Minister of Justice Reinsalu in support of this idea now, and what were his reasons? How have some people got smarter now?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U101	By quoting the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Marko Pomerants, at the last meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I say that a person has a constitutional right to be foolish. By paraphrasing this, one could say that a person also has a constitutional right to become wiser. In the case of any draft, the members of the Riigikogu have the opportunity to consider different positions, but in the end the position must be taken and the button pressed. It's the same with this bill. But now, if you think about the purpose of this bill, you can only support it. Reinsalu has written a long letter, I suggest you read it, Jürgen. The reasoning is very clear. It refers to the OECD, refers to freedom of business, economic freedom, suggests that in the overall picture Estonia can be considered a liberal market economy country. At the same time, he says that the pharmaceutical sector is a completely opposite situation, which does not correspond to the liberal economic environment in Estonia. In this sense, I am very pleased that the Ministry of Justice has, I believe, also consulted the Competition Authority in shaping its opinion and has dared to express its disagreement with the government's position, in the sense that yes, the problem is. Yeah, there's a problem. And if there's a problem, it has to be solved. The solution is on the table today. In this case, only Reinsalu can be praised and it is noted that he is in the right position.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U102	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U103	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Mr Marranti left this room, but if I am not deceived by my memory, the Social Affairs Committee of Parliament, led by Heljo Pikhof, dealt with this issue with great initiative. This resulted from both the court settlement and the desire to resolve the issue of land pharmacies. One important thing that was decided in the committee at the time was that the Commission told the Ministry of Social Affairs that the Ministry of Social Affairs had to carry out a certain analysis after the adoption of this law and bring the results before Parliament, in other words, to give us background information after a while. If I remember correctly, Honourable Minister Ossinovski has now resigned, but did the representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs in the Commission say why this analysis has not been carried out? It would have given us a better understanding of what the background system is today. Personally, I am of the opinion that a pharmacist could and should be given a greater role than a mere employee.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U104	Thank you. Indeed, this was mentioned in the Committee on Social Affairs, and I hope that the Commission's rapporteur will talk about it. But as far as I understood the position of the Ministry of Social Affairs when I was at the committee meeting, there were two positions: (a) it is not a problem for the Ministry of Social Affairs when the branch pharmacies are closed down, and (b) as far as the analysis is concerned, they will not do this analysis, at least they will not disclose it. That's what the Deputy Secretary General of the Ministry of Social Affairs of the Commission said. It would certainly be a good thing if the results of this analysis were to be public, but this does not change the need to decide whether or not property should be limited. Once again, it is the undisputed task of the Ministry of Social Affairs to regulate the pharmaceutical market from the time it enters the country. In this respect, too, I would get even more liberal and give the possibility that there would be more medicines in Estonia to reach the market, so that this part of the market would be freed from a number of restrictions. And secondly, it is also important that the Ministry reviews both the mark-ups and the terms of the sale. If pharmacists are to be granted more rights, I believe that pharmacists have rights. The pharmacist has to do his job according to professional ethics, he has to recommend the best medicine to people, but always give the person a choice. This change was made a few years ago, perhaps even when I was the Minister of Social Affairs, that the pharmacy had to offer people a molecular, or active substance-based medicine. And the person chooses which one he takes when there are more drugs. So these opportunities have already been created in Estonia. But I hope, as I said, we have opportunities for a much better supply of medicines. These steps must certainly be continued. I hope that after 3 March, the new government will have a new momentum. The currently sitting government is a sedentary, paused government.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U105	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U106	Thank you. You named Ida-Viru County. I'll get Narva, for example. There were three pharmacies at the beginning of the period of independence, now nine, plus branch pharmacies. There were three in Kohtla-Järve, now six, plus branch pharmacies. There was one in the river, now there's five, plus the branch pharmacies. And they can be made into basic pharmacies. What I'm asking is that we have been talking in the Commission about chains coming again, again they want to turn this thing in their favour. The Reform Party has also very jealously defended this idea in this composition, first the chains, but also you. Only now, just before the elections, came the opposite view. Why did such a special interest arise? And how do you explain that there is a system of pharmacists in very many countries in Europe? I really don't get it. Why don't you want to split up retail and wholesale? It's the most normal thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U107	Thank you for that question. First of all, I think that if the 32 pharmacies in Ida-Virumaa can close down, that's the problem. This is a real problem of access to medicines in Ida-Virumaa. Ida-Virumaa's pretty big. I am from there, by the way, as are the many members of the Riigikogu who still live there. 32 Pharmacy on all Ida-Viru County is not a very large number, and imagine if there will be not 32 of them in the future, but 18 of them. This is the problem of the solid is. With regard to pharmacy systems or pharmacy property, once again: I do not understand. I'm not standing here for any pharmacy owner, not a pharmacist's pharmacy, not a chain pharmacy. I stand for the principle that property is free and untouchable. This is the fundamental choice of whether or not property is restricted in Estonia. I dare say that ownership restrictions are not right and are not fair. Freedom of enterprise, economic freedom is something that must be protected, including the great hall of the Riigikogu. However, of course, the pharmaceutical market is not free. As I said, the purchase price is regulated, the wholesale price is regulated, the retail price is regulated, whoever can sell is regulated, and what can be sold is regulated. And where you can sell, it's also regulated. In this situation, it is not necessary to say that any individual should not be the owner of a pharmacy or any company should not be the owner of a pharmacy. The state must say that this is not a purposeful and constitutional restriction.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U108	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U109	Thank you to the manager. Good waitress! I have to admit, this spiritual awakening is very positive. But please remind the great hall what those arguments were when this ownership restriction was imposed four years ago! And they didn't ask for the opinion of the Competition Authority? I understand there was also a request for an analysis of the Agency, which has not yet come. How was such an incomplete law adopted at the time? Why did the Reform Party agree to this? It's a very simple question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U110	Thank you. The laws are passed by this great hall here. Isn't that right? Three readings are needed and accepted. At that time, the decision of the Supreme Court to amend the law was initiated. And in an attempt to take account of this Supreme Court ruling, one path was chosen. You could have chosen another way. In my opinion, the path that was chosen was not the most successful. That's why I'm answering you right now in this remote control, which is why I'm on the remote now to explain why I think and the whole Reform Party doesn't think this was the right way. Yeah, it's hindsight, but we need to change this situation. We have urgent concerns, as I have repeatedly said. These concerns are related to rare pharmacies. And we have longer-term concerns, more generally concerning economic freedom, freedom of business, restrictions on ownership, purposefulness. Valdo Randpere noted today that there are actually more questions on the pharmaceutical market. How can we still make medicines more accessible to people? So there are certainly more questions, but we are now solving what is an urgent problem. Once again, a new Parliament will be elected on 3 March. I dare say that this new formation will perhaps meet at the end of March, but probably at the beginning of April, and they will simply not be able to resolve quickly the situation that awaits in June 2019. I therefore also call on the Centre Party to have a calm debate, to think along and to adopt amendments to the pharmaceutical law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U111	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U112	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good waitress! You can really agree that owners don't have to be pharmacists. But one of the goals of pharmacies and our healthcare system should actually be to make medicines as accessible as possible and also cheap for people. Right now, we're solving the owner problem, but inside this problem is basically the question of how the availability of medicines changes. Estonia is known to be one of the countries where access to medicines, especially new medicines, is poor. What does it have to do with each other? Is it getting better or worse? How can it work if we take away restrictions and wholesale companies become owners?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U113	Thank you. Let me explain a little bit about the availability of medicines from two perspectives. One is the physical availability of medicines and the other is the active substance-based availability of medicines. As regards the physical availability of medicinal products, there is one provision in the draft, which states that if the pharmacy manager has been granted at least ten licences to provide general pharmacy services, the state may say that he must open a pharmacy in some rural area. It is in here to ensure the physical availability of medicines in rural areas, to ensure the availability of a pharmacy. Whether it is needed or not can also be argued. I dare say that if one pharmacist has even ten pharmacies, the country should have the right to improve the geographical availability of medicines. Now on active substance-based availability. This draft does not address the availability of an active substance. But I believe that after the elections, at least when there is a Reform Party in this government, the new government will solve this problem. There's a pretty easy way to do that. The Pharmaceutical Law states that there must be a marketing authorisation issued either by our Medicines Agency or by the European Medicines Agency for placing a medicinal product on the market. But a prescription doesn't mean it can be sold. There's gotta be a price deal. And this price agreement must have been concluded with the Estonian state. Now that is the clause that I believe can significantly improve access to medicines. We can say that it is possible to sell the medicine on the Estonian market if a price agreement has been concluded with, for example, five EU Member States. This would significantly improve access to medicines. These are details that people who do not do this every day may find it difficult to understand, but the principle is that with a small change of words in the pharmaceutical law or adding a few words to it, medicines not available in Estonia can be made available. Whether these are compensatory medicines is the next question. So there are very many facets in the pharmaceutical market, and I would argue that under no circumstances will the new government escape this problem. It will have to deal with the question of how to make available on the Estonian market currently unavailable medicines.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U114	Urve Palo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U115	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Let's put the contents aside for a second. We wouldn't even talk about that. This has been discussed for a long time and you have either answered the questions asked or not, but this has been said. I'm asking about the uniform. How do you think the draft initiated by the Reform Party will affect people's confidence in Estonia's legal certainty? You yourself have also worked as Minister of Justice and you should understand this problem well. We are seriously talking about amending the law adopted four years ago, one year to two years before it fully enters into force, and many businesses, including individuals, as pharmacists, have already taken steps to act in accordance with this law. What are you gonna tell them? And anyway, it gives a bad signal for the future: we're taking the law here, but, well, maybe we'll reconsider before they come into force. Why, then, should we even make an effort to comply with the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U116	That is a demagogic question. Excuse me, but what do we tell the people of Estonia who knew that Estonia has a strong business environment, a uniform income tax and a secure investment environment? One day the government arrived, saying that we no longer have a uniform income tax, we have a progressive income tax at a thousand levels. Using this demagogue, we can play ping-pong here for a very long time, can't we? But one thing is clear: all pharmacists and all the people who operate in the pharmacy market need to know what is the result of one law or another. And if the result of one law is that pharmacies are closed down, if the result of one law is that people who made an investment in Estonia, whether they are Estonian or foreign investors, will receive the message that you are forced to sell your property, then you, who were the Minister of Enterprise, will understand that this is a very wrong signal. Protection of investment is a very important principle of freedom to conduct a business. Freedom of investment, protection of investments is something that the great hall of the Riigikogu must protect. No pharmacist is prohibited in the Republic of Estonia from establishing a pharmacy. If the pharmacist wants to invest in opening a pharmacy, he can do it. If a non-provisor wishes to establish a pharmacy, he must take into account the fact that he is subject to a number of restrictions. Among other things, he must find a pharmacist. So, in this sense, pharmacists are already in a better position than non-proviers, but other investors still have the option under current law, because ownership restrictions have not entered into force. An investor has the right to assume that if he wishes to have a pharmacy, he has the option. But, of course, he does not have that right today because he cannot set up a pharmacy because the establishment limit is already in place. Just now, existing pharmacies have not yet been expropriated. So there are a lot of messages, but the main message is that the great hall of the Riigikogu must consider the consequences of every law. And in this case, the consequence would be that the Estonian investor and foreign investor, who are currently active in the pharmacy market, must start to sell their property forcibly. I think this is a very bad signal to the Estonian business environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U117	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U118	Honourable performer! Perhaps you're so kind as to name the source where you found the axiom that property should not be restricted. You've said it a dozen times here today, and I'd like to know the source where it says what you're teaching us. Where does the axiom say that property should not be restricted? I haven't heard of it. Where did you find it?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U119	Thank you. No one has said that property can absolutely not be restricted. I have said that freedom of property and ownership restrictions must be purposeful. And make a letter from the Minister of Justice, which I spoke about in my report! I'll read it to you again. It writes that the best answer to the consumer is free competition, where neither wholesalers nor pharmacies are subject to restrictions on economic activity. And if you do any more of the Competition Authority's opinions, look at what the Competition Authority has said about ownership restrictions. You'll get an answer from there.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U120	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U121	Thank you. I don't know what the pill or other active ingredient is in the game, that today everyone only asks how the law can be changed. Members of the Riigikogu wonder how, after all, the law applies, how can it be changed suddenly now. Has there been any justification in the course of this whole debate in the Commission or in this Chamber for why such a restriction is necessary and fair, what it solves and how it is in line with the general principles of the state, which are freedom to conduct a business and as few restrictions as possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U122	Thank you, good Jurgen! I have already tried to answer these questions and I have also referred to a letter from the Minister of Justice, which has drawn attention to the same issues. Freedom to conduct a business is an important feature of democracy. It makes sense that there is a free economy in the country, a free economy without restrictions. Only then can the economy develop. Ownership restrictions are such that property can only be restricted in very few cases. For example, we have not imposed restrictions on the ownership of hospitals, nor have we said who may be the owner of the hospital. We have not restricted the right to attend school, etc. In other words, when property is restricted, it must be very purposeful, and in this area, I dare say, it is not purposeful. We can argue whether this restriction is constitutional or not on constitutionality, I am not taking a firm stand, but I am certainly of the opinion that it is not for the purpose of restricting the freedom to conduct a business and the right to property otherwise in a free market.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U123	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U124	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear waitress, A few years ago, a sharp change took place in family medical policy, and many family doctors flew into the sky to invest in real estate and medical equipment. I've met a group like this in Narva. So where were those beautiful thoughts about property as a sacred thing? But the question is entirely different. It is, of course, very pleasant that you have mentioned Narva four or five times here, but I wonder why Ida-Virumaa. Is there any particular reason other than that you're just from there? Is it different in other counties?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U125	Thank you for that question. A very specific answer: In Ida-Virumaa, the percentage of potential pharmacies to be closed is highest. We need to understand that Ida-Viru County will actually be hit hardest if these changes are not adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U126	Urve Palo, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U127	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good performer! You spoke very passionately about investment protection. First of all, I would like to remind you that in this case, of course, there is no privatisation of pharmacies, but chains have to sell them to pharmacists or pharmacists. But that's it. Here's my question. It is now four years since the Reform Party-led government passed this law. Four years have passed, and now suddenly you wake up and start protecting your investments. So long for hibernation, where did this sudden awakening come from?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U128	Thank you. Let it be said, for the sake of clarity, that privatisation means something else. Maybe you were thinking about nationalism, I don't know what to see in your head. The principles of this draft have actually been discussed for a very long time. See also articles in the media that have been written on this subject! The problem has long been in the air, as Mr Aas referred to in his question. Arto Aas long ago referred to what problems might be if this law came into force. Indeed, it has become acute now because the government did nothing and neither did the previous government. But in the past, there was just time and an analysis was expected from the Ministry of Social Affairs, which has not come or will not come. The problem has become acute. The next June will be at the door and therefore the current Riigikogu will have to deal with this problem. If we don't deal with it, of course life will go on. Of course life goes on! But the law does not only affect the pharmacy market, I claim that its impact extends much further, among other things, to the Estonian investment environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U129	Arto Aas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U130	Thank you. I just wanted to tell Mr Leng that property is protected by the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia in the Republic of Estonia. I recommend that you read § 32, which speaks of the integrity of property and that it must be protected, and § 31, which speaks of the freedom to conduct a business. These principles have long been valid in Estonia. Joint property and all that crap got stuck in another era. But I'd like to ask the originator how the previous bill was born to refresh his memory. As far as I know, its initiator was not the Reform Party; as far as I know, it was born of Margus Tsahkna's feather. What about the beginning?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U131	Thank you. I was not in Parliament at the time, but as much as I have heard as an interested person in history, even in the history of Parliament, the draft began with the Supreme Court ruling. Then they quickly started looking for solutions. And then, unfortunately, there was the same pre-election period. The 2015 elections were at the door, and in the course of the election debate in Parliament, this draft was made. Yes, I think Heljo Pikhof was chairman of the committee, but Margus Tsahkna certainly contributed, and I believe that other members of the committee also did. But I would not like to make an assessment today of who specifically and how this draft was drawn up. I wasn't there to write it down, but I remember being at a group meeting when it was discussed, and then I predicted the problems that would arise in this form with the adoption of the draft, just as you did, and so did Jürgen.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U132	Thank you. No further questions for the rapporteur. The report will be made on behalf of the Commission by the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, Helmen Kütt. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U133	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good fellows! I will give you an overview of how the debate took place in the Committee on Social Affairs and of the issues that arose in this regard. On Tuesday, 9 October, the Committee on Social Affairs discussed the preparation for first reading of the draft law amending the Law on Medicinal Products (656). Hanno Pevkur, who spoke before me today, gave an overview on behalf of the initiators. As representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs, Maris Jesse, Deputy Secretary-General of the Health Area, gave explanations to the Commission. Since Hanno Pevkur has already introduced this bill very thoroughly, I will not stop at it, if you will. This has been explained for a long time. I will tell you what questions were raised in the Commission. However, I must immediately apologise for the fact that some of the issues have already been covered here, and I will not stop at any longer. But then I'll give you an overview. Marika Tuus-Laul pointed out that the pharmacy is not an ordinary business, as the price of medicines does not develop in the free market, but is restricted by the state. Both the Chancellor of Justice, the Agency and the European Commission have said that ownership restrictions are not incompatible with the Constitution. Marika Tuus-Laul also said that the changes were initiated four years ago by a coalition led by the Reform Party. Mr Pevkur explained that the problem was precisely 55 branch pharmacies. Yes, in 2014, the Riigikogu made such changes, but now there is a need to revise this law. Ownership restrictions are not a transparent solution, as the owners of pharmacies can also be informal, tank pharmacists. Jüri Jaanson pointed out that the Social Affairs Committee did not really work hastily at the time. This topic was dealt with in a very thorough manner and worked almost all summer, analysing different solutions. Under no circumstances does he agree that the amendment was made in a hurry. Viktor Vassilyev pointed out that there is currently a requirement that all public limited liability companies, private limited liability companies and non-profit organisations should register in the commercial register, in addition to the beneficial owner of the shareholders. So there's no reason to claim that pharmacists become tank pharmacists. In addition, Hanno Pevkur, a waitress from the initiators, replied that the paper suffered everything: if a pharmacist can be registered as owner in the commercial register, the pharmacist can certainly be identified as the actual beneficiary. I pointed out the principle that, in general, the state should trust its own people, including businesses. It seems to me that this has actually been the position of the Reform Party. Tiina Kangro noted that it was not intended to waive ownership restrictions because of the fact that Estonia's small size would have an impact on the pharmaceutical market. Two wholesalers would inevitably seize the whole market, and the choice and prices of medicines would be largely dictated by them. He also said that he would not go the way the Group of the Estonian Reform Party is proposing to separate pharmacist pharmacies and wholesale chains. Maris Jesse pointed out the government's position. There has been a great deal of talk here about the dissenting opinion of the Minister of Justice and also about the opinion of the Competition Authority. The Government of the Republic is of the opinion that it is unreasonable to change the restrictions on branch pharmacies. Maris Jesse said that decisions concerning ownership restrictions have already been taken by the Riigikogu and he sees no reason to change them. It also pointed out that on 1 September 2018, the Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Prevention Act entered into force, which imposes additional obligations and provides for consequences in the event of false statements, including actual beneficiaries. Liina Kersna said that the Government of the Republic has taken a position not to support the draft, while the Ministry of Justice and the Competition Authority strongly support it. He asked if, for example, the arguments of the Ministry of Justice were in favour of the government's arguments. The subject of Ida-Virumaa was also touched, and Liina Kersna asked the committee whether it can be concluded that there are too many pharmacies in Estonia. Maris Jesse replied that there are really many pharmacies in Estonia, but they are increasingly concentrated in the city centre of Tallinn, and this is at the expense of rural areas. He added that there is one place in Ida-Virumaa where the branch pharmacy is indeed further away. According to the analysis of the Ministry of Social Affairs, however, there is a general pharmacy near most of the branch pharmacies, and other general pharmacies may emerge in place of the current branch pharmacies. Jüri Jaanson asked clearly and briefly what is the position of the Government of the Republic regarding the postponement of the restrictions on branch pharmacies, that is to say, the draft. Maris Jesse replied that the Government of the Republic and the Ministry of Social Affairs did not consider the postponement of the restriction to be justified. There were no more questions. As a representative of the Commission, I can say that the Commission has been dealing with pharmacies for a very long time this year. We have had extended sessions with the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, but they have not all been linked to this draft. As the previous speaker said, they have generally been linked to the subject of pharmacies, such as those published in the media and the letters that have come to the Committee on Social Affairs. The Committee on Social Affairs made its procedural decisions: to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary session on 23 October, which was yesterday, but since the national issue of importance was discussed yesterday, it has been delayed today; to propose that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for amendments be set at 6 November 1715; to appoint the chairman of the committee as rapporteur before you. All the decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U134	Thank you very much for the waitress. There are no questions. I'm opening negotiations. As this is a first reading, the group's authorised representatives will get the floor. Marika Tuus-Laul, Estonian Centre Party. Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U135	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, It has already been said here that the law was adopted by consensus in the previous formation. In this sense, all parties understood that the pharmacy market is not subject to free market rules, i.e. free enterprise rules, because the price of medicines does not develop in free competition, but is regulated by the state. For example, the state has put in place a drug mark-up, the pharmacist must have a specific higher education, he has the obligation to offer the buyer the most cheap medicine, based on the ingredient, and the main pharmacies must also make medicines on the spot. Pharmacies are also forced to receive old medicines from residents and deliver them wherever they need to. Geographical restrictions have been put in place and we now also want to impose ownership restrictions. They are perfectly normal, which shows that the pharmaceutical market is not a free market. I'm really asking why you want to turn back what we've achieved over the years. Why do you not want to tell the public that the system of pharmacists applies, for example, in France, Austria, Hungary, also in Finland and Germany, and that this year the largest country in Eastern Europe also introduced the requirement of Polish pharmacist property. Why, for example, has the wholesale company and chain owner Tamro, who have repeatedly spent the doors of our political groups and whose offer was happily accepted by the Reform Party before the elections, not threatened his parent company Phoenix in Germany by filing claims? There is also a requirement to have exactly pharmacists. Why are they provoking here in Estonia, but not there? 'Cause they'd just laugh out there. It is clear that pharmaceutical companies are afraid of losing market share and profit. We know that today's pharmaceutical majors, Tamro and Magnum, tried to challenge the ownership restrictions of pharmacies in the European Commission, but their complaint was rejected there this spring because the system of pharmacists in Europe has fully justified and protected the interests of patients. If you're asking me how the closure of branch pharmacies affects the people of the country, I'll say no way. There are rare pharmacies in cities with more than 4,000 inhabitants, as I have already said, to be redesigned. The availability of pharmacy services in the country does not deteriorate. And in the big cities, there's gotta be fewer pharmacies, we've got a pharmacist's drought. Estonia has also already been called the Republic of Pharmacies. I will give you just one example in addition to the previous ones. There were 23 pharmacies in Tallinn at the beginning of the independence period, now 130, plus all possible branch pharmacies. Haruapteeks were once allowed in small rural areas, operating under the control of some general pharmacy. Haruapteeks do not need to be operated by a pharmacist and may be kept in rooms twice that of general pharmacies. However, the pharmacy chains found that this definition allows the pharmacy to be opened in every building in the city of Tallinn where the pharmacy was not yet present. And so, it was in cities that branch pharmacies were opened, hiring low-skilled pharmacists and saving rent money. Perhaps you'll ask why the owner of the pharmacy must be a pharmacist. Because the pharmacist's owner has a greater responsibility for his actions. The potential infringement not only undermines its financial position but also jeopardises its professional career. This has been said before the European Court of Justice. Independent pharmacies, or pharmacists, can also play a greater role in primary healthcare. After all, the pharmacist is a healthcare professional. Why must wholesalers and pharmacies be divorced? Since pharmacies can buy medicines only from an inland wholesaler, the wholesaler aims to acquire as many pharmacies as possible. This prevents new wholesalers from adding to the new ones, since the majority of pharmacies are already owned by an existing wholesaler. It ends with independent pharmacies shutting down and leaving only a few or three large chains that dictate which medicines and how to sell them in pharmacies, which places to put them on shelves. And these wholesale companies are also so-called leaders in communication with pharmaceutical companies. If the companies do not pay marketing and other fees to the wholesaler owner, their medicines are simply not put out at the pharmacy. In any case, the wholesale and pharmacy sectors must be separated and there is no other option but to establish a self-employed pharmacist as the owner of the pharmacy. Estonia has even been mentioned as a bad example in the European Court of Justice. We do not want the family doctor system to belong to foreign companies, for example. Then why do we want this to be the case with pharmacies? After all, they are taking their profits out of Estonia. The Chancellor of Justice has made it very clear that ownership restrictions are in line with the law, that the Agency has confirmed that the law is being enforced and that we are going on with it. The European Commission has decided that ownership restrictions are not incompatible with the Constitution. What else? Shall we go on? The interests of the Reform Party in supporting chains must be voted down together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U136	Heljo Pikhof on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U137	Eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U138	Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U139	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The reform of the pharmacy was discussed in depth when the law was adopted. Over the past year, the pending draft was dealt with several times in the Committee on Social Affairs as well as in the joint session of the Committee on Social Affairs and the Committee on Legal Affairs. The Chancellor of Justice has also given his opinion on the reform, firmly taking the view that there is no conflict with the Constitution with the reform, and saying that further on, it is most necessary to give the parties the assurance that the law will remain and that they will be able to plan the future on this basis. Good fellows! The Chancellor of Justice, after analysing the laws, the judicial decisions of Estonia and the European Union, the explanatory notes of draft laws, other procedural materials and the regulations of the pharmacy market in other countries, considers that the Riigikogu has not exceeded the limits of constitutionality when designing the pharmacy reform. The Chancellor of Justice considers that sufficient time has been allowed to adapt to the pharmacy reform decided in 2014 and 2015. Authorisations have already been issued for pharmacists under the new rules. If the legislator were to change the rules currently in force, the legitimate expectations of market participants who have made timely preparations to bring their actions into line with the requirements of the law would be undermined. Many countries have introduced specific regulations for the pharmacy market. This is part of the health sector, where the state will bear the costs of compensated prescription medicines and must ensure a service of a controlled quality. Most Member States of the European Union have introduced both ownership restrictions and a ban on vertical integration. Other market regulation measures are also used, such as state ownership, geographical and demographic restrictions, restrictions on market share, ban on concentration in pharmacies' chains, etc. Together with a change in economic policy, the regime towards liberalisation and then regulation will also change the restrictions on the activities of pharmacies. The governments of each country have the right to choose different measures that are appropriate for their own country. The regulations have been implemented, re-implemented both gradually or in several stages and simultaneously, i.e. in one step. The time given for the law to enter into force has also been very different, mostly close to five years. Referring to the Chancellor of Justice and the audit of the National Audit Office, we can say that the retail and wholesale market for medicines has grown together in Estonia. This, in turn, means that pharmacies are a distribution channel for the wholesaler, dominated by the trader's commercial interests, and the role of pharmacist is to realise these commercial interests. In general, pharmacists operating in such a framework cannot be considered to be commercially independent of the wholesaler. The pharmacist's independence in his day-to-day activities, such as deciding on the choice of medicinal products, is certainly greater if he makes these decisions to the wholesaler and negotiates with several wholesalers for the supply of medicinal products to the pharmacy, including over-the-counter medicinal products. This could create competition between wholesalers, which could improve the choice of medicines for pharmacies and also slow down the rise in the price of medicines. For wholesalers, therefore, the reform of the pharmacy could mean that they need to take more account of the owner's interests of pharmacists and offer general pharmacies both favourable prices for the purchase of medicinal products and reasonable delivery and payment deadlines and conditions. Apart from the independence of the pharmacists, the need to increase competition is highlighted as justifications for the restrictions. After all, the state has a duty to protect people's health, and the pharmacy service is part of a health sector that is not a normal economic activity. And finally. The Ministry of Social Affairs has announced that it is dealing with the implementation plan needed to enforce the reform of the pharmacy. Consideration will be given, for example, to the granting of subsidised loans to pharmacists or the provision of loans by the State, to the increase in the teaching capacity of pharmacists and pharmacists, to the creation of a sales environment on the website of the Agency, to the extension of the powers of the Competition Authority to establish ownership. Also, I would remind the Reform Party that in the previous composition you strongly supported the reform of the pharmacy, including ownership restrictions. The Social Democratic Party Group proposes not to stop reading the draft, i.e. the first reading of the draft 656. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U140	Jürgen Ligi on behalf of the Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U141	Honourable Chairman! Honourable Riigikogu! This is really an exciting question about what active substance it is, which makes it so confusing and so unsubstantiated to oppose a single draft, the substantive reasons for which exist. The main thing that has been said here, and with which the previous speaker ended, was the phrase that, listen, you were in favour last time. What's the argument? Is it true that the Riigikogu has taken the view that no law can be changed and that no one must ever get smarter and that when the world changes, you must not decide again? The reality is that our composition has changed, and many of the people who are criticising this law today were not involved in its creation, but they also opposed it at the time. In fact, it's crazy to think that the state's gonna pick up and tell some well-established market players, "Hey, now get the fuck out." You've made an investment, you've got an asset here, now get rid of it! See for yourself how you can! It's actually crazy. As far as the investment environment is concerned, we have no reason to believe that these investors have done anything to harm Estonia. No one's explained it, but they're just saying that you've invested in it, but now stop, put it away for somebody. This is a very serious restriction on ownership if you are ordered to sell property. And if a lot of pharmacies go on sale at the same time, it's clear that it also affects a lot of prices. There will be no good competition or strong pharmacies if there is essentially expropriation. What I got was that the situation on this subject was the same, about a year ago, about a radio broadcast. I listened to Jevgeni Ossinovski talking there for a long time, and I thought, "Something's wrong, he's not a stupid person." But he only kept saying that the Riigikogu had adopted the decision and the Riigikogu had adopted the decision and the Riigikogu had adopted the decision. The host described the consequences of the drugstores going to jail, but Ossinovsky essentially didn't respond. Multiplyed what it once did here: but the decision has been taken. A very bad decision has been taken because the pharmacies are actually going to jail. Owners are harmed by being forced to give up their property. The availability of medicines is thus deteriorating. It's not in the client's best interest! But I found out that this is the position of the Ministry of Social Affairs. Before that, I didn't imagine anyone coming in front of the crowd saying that we had too many pharmacies. Oh, my God! It should be in the interests of consumers, if there are many. After all, prices are very regulated, and this side will not change in any way. I myself am actually very much in favour of the regulated pharmaceutical market and I am very sorry that this is being carried out forcefully on other issues, such as wholesale trade. This bill does not regulate wholesale trade. Don't be crazy! Do not read the written texts, read the bill and listen to what has been said here before! What level is that? I don't understand. It is very amazing when, in 2018, Estonian politicians say that they will move profits out of Estonia. Oh, my God! They have first and foremost brought the money here, and we have long since stopped treating entrepreneurs like they, pagans, want to make a profit, think of them as ugly. Then make a pharmacy for your money and keep the money under the oven somewhere, if you earn it, I'm not against it. Of course, I wouldn't trust Marika with a pharmacy. She probably won't be responsible if she talks like that. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] The second argument put forward is that there are restrictions elsewhere in Europe. But restrictions are often historical. Certain markets are emerging according to some historical key: a long tradition of ownership, with historic tsunami systems... This has affected the development of the market. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U142	I'll take full responsibility and add three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U143	To give examples, this was about Germany. There you go, there's a completely different ownership structure. For example, German banking is not considered to be very good, largely because of the ownership structure. There are many cooperative banks, old traditions. Similarly, this system of pharmacies can be historically developed and not the best. There is no point in setting an example for countries with a different path to development. We have had the opportunity to put in place an effective system, and it has been done. There will be investors and there will be no hearing that anyone would have died because the owner of the pharmacy is not a pharmacist. But, of course, it's an interesting message. I hope that the government coalition, those people who vote against here, will admit that there are too many pharmacies. And let's draw the conclusion here, from two sources, that in the future we're going to close shops in the same way, and let's say to our customers, listen, go to that other part of town, we have free transport. That's what the Health Insurance Fund says. Let us remember that hospitals do not have any restrictions on ownership. Private hospitals can be established without some kind of doctor's degree, but of course no one establishes a hospital without doctors. These are two very different things. There is a lot of reference to the Chancellor of Justice. The Chancellor of Justice actually supports this bill, I can assure you. It's been dragged down for months now, it's been standing up since the presentation, but he thinks it's worth going on with. A little bit of what I'm saying is getting old with him, but we've been consulting him. So don't put opinions in his mouth, even though he says that the Riigikogu can do stupid things, it's not directly against the Constitution, but that doesn't mean he has to do stupid things. The Chancellor of Justice thinks we need to get smart and get rid of this shit. More about the birth of the bill. I don't know where this opposition is coming from. There have been no other arguments, if it has already been decided, and so is elsewhere. Firstly, Ossinovski could not justify why the Riigikogu decision must remain valid. And second of all, I managed to talk to the head of the Competition Authority, and it happened in the conversation that he was hot in the same position as I was. That's how the bill was born. But you tell me who will feed you that you do not want to permit this bill to proceed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U144	There is no further wish for negotiation. I'm closing the negotiations. The commission's proposal is to conclude the first reading of draft 656, but as you have heard, the Group of the Social Democratic Party has proposed to reject the draft law at first reading. This leads to a vote. Ladies and gentlemen, before the vote Valdo Randpere will put a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U145	President-in-Office of the Council. I have such a procedural question. The Sooters actually said from the remote that they were proposing not to stop reading the first reading of this draft. I don't even know how to stop reading the first reading. You put words in your mouth and said that the Sots had proposed to reject this draft at first reading. They haven't done that. So what do we do now?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U146	We'll vote in a minute. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] But maybe this formulation isn't really 100 percent accurate. Indeed, it is possible to reject the draft at first reading; the second reading can be interrupted. But we obviously understood the principle and the nature of the matter in the same way. Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U147	Mr. Speaker! I have a procedural question. In this debate, the only valid argument has been that the vote was different the previous time. I now have a procedural question: do we have to vote the same way? Does it have to be now that 27 members do not vote and three have to oppose? There has been talk of consensus here. Do we have to vote exactly as we did last time?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U148	Dear colleague Jürgen Ligi! If we take the situation with the same precision as Valdo Randpere, the speaker, or Eiki Nestor, should answer that question. [[Laughter, applause.]] But according to the first answer, I understood what my colleague meant. The way someone votes is strictly a matter not only of the political group, but of the conscience of every member of the Riigikogu. It is difficult to say something in advance or to comment on it. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U149	Thank you. Maybe I can ask the secretary of the hearing what they're asking? What does it say on the paper? Why don't you read it out so you can get the picture straightened out?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U150	I'd love to. Some say I have a microphone voice. [[Laughter.]] The Social Democratic Party Group proposes that the first reading of draft 656 should not be closed. I agree that this is not the best formulation. (Should be a big buzzing.) But the principle is... We will continue with the procedural questions, and since the subject is up here, I will give the floor to Heljo Pikhof.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U151	Thank you. President-in-Office of the Council. I propose that the draft be rejected at first reading and I will also give it in writing immediately if the previous wording is not understood. [[Noise in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U152	Hanno Pevkur.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U153	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The President closed the negotiations. Following the closing of the negotiations, no more proposals can be made and, unfortunately, as a result, we will not be able to vote on this proposal by the Sots. So the first reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U154	Valdo Randpere.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U155	I didn't hear the screaming that Hanno said, but maybe Hanno said we had a yellow book called the Home and Working Procedures Act. If we want to break the law, we are going to vote on something right now, and that would, in my opinion, be a very ugly precedent in the Riigikogu of the Republic of Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U156	Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U157	Thank you, Mr President. It seems to me, and I think it's not just for me that you should take a little break and consult right now. Thank you. [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U158	Thanks for the tip! I had the same thing on my mind. The manager's break is five minutes. We'll continue in five minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U159	Honourable Riigikogu! During my brilliant career in the Board of the Riigikogu, there have been situations that I would rather have avoided. Right now, I've been consulting, admitting, smarter than me. And the decision is something that the opposition should like. I shall finish my first reading without a vote. [[Let's hear it.]] And to be honest, I will announce that the deadline for submitting amendments is 7 November at 5.15 p.m. So there's time. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U160	Certainly, Mr President-in-Office, the President has the right to make decisions in such situations, but I would point out that there are two options at first reading: whether the first reading of the draft is terminated or not terminated. And if this is not completed, the rules of procedure and home procedures provide that there is one option, which in this case would be the rejection of the draft at first reading. Which is why our proposal, although not formulated in a formal way, is unambiguous. The proposal not to terminate the first reading of the draft essentially means rejecting the draft at first reading. And I therefore think that the decision not to put it to the vote, despite one of the group's proposals, is in no way right. The aim of the Social Democratic Party Group in making this proposal was clearly to have a vote at first reading of the draft. And this request was clearly presented to the Bureau with our proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U161	I thank you for this reply, but the President of the sitting has taken a decision and, accordingly, we will proceed. I will only add so much that the elections will be on 3 March. [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U162	The next item is the draft law amending the Public Information Act initiated by the Government of the Republic... [[Voices from the floor.]] That's what happens when something happens. The third item is the first reading of the draft Act amending the Status of Members of the Riigikogu Act initiated by the Free Party Group. For a presentation, please address a member of the Riigikogu, Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U163	Thank you, Mr President, for giving this opportunity. The Free Party Group has submitted a draft law amending the Act on the status of a member of the Riigikogu, which amends § 30 of the current Act. We amend it in such a way that the new text says: 'A member of the Riigikogu is compensated for work-related expenses on the basis of expense documents up to 10% of the salary of a member of the Riigikogu in accordance with the procedure laid down by the Board of the Riigikogu. No cost compensation shall be used to pay lease payments for passenger cars. ' Compared to the current version, it is different, as honourable members of the Riigikogu understand well. So far, the cost benefit rate has been 30% of the salary of a member of the Riigikogu. What's the idea and the understanding? If you wish, this bill can be seen in a larger set, in fact as part of the package presented by the Free Party Group, which means saving money from the action of the 'political elite'. This includes our understanding that the funding of political parties from the state budget must be reduced, and the draft that we have tabled in order to reduce the number of ministers so that there is one minister in each ministry. This, in turn, could be put in an even wider context, in the context of the sustainable use of state resources. In fact, we think that all ministries and many sub-offices, perhaps not all of them, should very critically review their expenditure, because many of them, however, do have substitution activities or duplications of activities. There should be a reference to the proposals made by the National Reform Foundation in part. The first part of their proposals came out on Monday this week. These concerned, among other things, the work of the Riigikogu. One of the points says that the system of expenses benefits for members of the Riigikogu must be abolished by raising the salary of members of the Riigikogu if necessary. As you understand, we are going a different way, a third of the cut in the cost benefits, and do not take any position here on the salary of the members of the Riigikogu or on the reduction of the number of members of the Riigikogu or the hiring of aids. We find that this step is actually the easiest and most clear, it is a trust-creating step that the Riigikogu can take. I would also like to point out that there has also been a summary in the press this week, which says that the government's dietary programme for state-paid jobs has essentially stopped. While 1700 jobs were saved or lost in the first year and 600 more jobs per year were lost in the years 2016‐2017, it has now practically stopped. So a review of the country's own costs is entirely appropriate and it should start here, at our level. We propose a very simple measure that does not require a reduction in the composition of the Riigikogu (this would require a change in the constitution and should be dealt with by two Riigikogu formations). This is a tangible step that can be taken now and now. I also point out here that the Riigikogu has one time gone on such a voluntary basis. This was, in the context of the economic crisis, during the XI of the Riigikogu, when it was established, though, on a temporary basis, a procedure whereby expenses were covered by 10% of the salary. Nothing bad happened. This Riigikogu worked quite effectively until the end of its work, and under pretty difficult conditions all the necessary cuts were made. According to our observations, a smaller amount is sufficient to cover the costs directly related to the work of a member of the Riigikogu. This can be done and let us do it! In addition, it also contains a sentence that cost benefits are not used to pay lease payments for passenger cars. I do not think that such an idea should arise if cost benefits were to be transferred to a third of the current level, because it is possible to use this money for fuel and natural representation costs. Perhaps there is also a positive effect here: then perhaps the press will not have to follow the finger, who will use 100% and who will leave some kind of reserve, because then the cost benefits will have been set at quite a reasonable rate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U164	Peter Ernits will begin the round of questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U165	Good manager! Good waitress! There is such an interesting sentence in the explanatory memorandum that the effectiveness of work did not change in the case of the XI membership, when the cost benefit was 10%, as you are currently offering. I'm going to ask you a little bit more. It's a general story, but what's it based on? Did the XI composition produce as much as the current composition or the later or earlier formations, or, on the contrary, was the breach like less? According to which metrics do you compare the performance of the XI Riigikogu with that of the XII, XIII, X composition? Can you give me a more accurate picture, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U166	Thank you. You know, my meter is personal observation. I have not done a substantive analysis of how many drafts were sent back either by the Chancellor of Justice or by the President of the Republic in the event of a breach of the Constitution. This is relatively difficult with these indicators at cost. However, I can assure you that the XI Riigikogu acted in much more difficult social conditions than the current Riigikogu, precisely in the context of the economic crisis, in relation to the situation that existed in Estonia at the time, and in relation to the need to balance public finances and to make the necessary cuts. It wasn't an easy time. As a result of all this being done, I dare say that the Riigikogu's substantive work did not suffer as a result.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U167	Aivar Chef.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U168	Good manager! Good waitress! There is one legend in this house that a few decades ago the Chairman of the Riigikogu went to his political group and announced that all car compensations would be cancelled. The same group asked whether the office car of the President of the Riigikogu would also be abolished. After that, the President of the Riigikogu, i.e. the former Chairman of the Riigikogu, did not speak about this topic. You're talking about cutting off the car lease from the booth. You are a Tallinn boy and you can take free public transport. But you could go to South Estonia to run for a job, drive your personal car every day and not let it be compensated. The second option is, of course, to go there for two months during the election campaign and no more. Should members of the Riigikogu be treated equally or not? The people of Tallinn can go to the voters for free, but the people of the remote region also need to be able to do so somehow.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U169	Thank you for that question. I admit that there is no doubt that there is a certain moment here, fuel costs may be higher for those who come from a distance. But at the same time, I assure you, Honourable Asker, that I myself have traveled around Estonia very much, even during some period of time, abnormally much, and I have not been able to spend all this money on fuel. Maybe it should be more or less comparable. I would not object if the Riigikogu decided to finish the first reading and to send the draft to second reading, as was done with the previous draft, and the amendment comes, depending on whether they have been elected from Tallinn, Harjumaa and its immediate surroundings or beyond, to treat the ambassadors somewhat differently. It would even be conceivable, but in my opinion, this is not a key issue. At the same time, ambassadors who have been chosen from a distance have, again, their advantages in terms of housing opportunities, etc. But once again, I basically wouldn't mind if some sort of smoothing mechanism was invented here. Why not, but I don't think it's such a big question. I believe that with the money we have now, it is possible to cover very large distances in terms of fuel.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U170	Raivo Põldaru.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U171	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! The legislative power is here on Toompea. The government's pretty close, too. When you discussed small savings in government spending, did you also come to the idea that ministers would be in a much better position than members of the Riigikogu? As we know, their representation expenses have already been set up somewhere else, they have basically representation costs, and now you take them away from the members of the Riigikogu. How do you feel about that? In essence, ministers should follow the order of the Riigikogu, or how should the law be?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U172	Thank you for that question. I think that we in this Riigikogu will also have the moral right to cut the costs of ministers if we do so at our own expense. As I said in the introduction, if we start from such things as the expenses of members of the Riigikogu and the extremely generous funding of political parties from the state budget, and if we lose these double ministers in three ministries, then we could look at how to put on the so-called austerity programme in the same way in each ministry. I think we can get a suitable source of cover for some very important things in the state budget. I do not exclude at all that the costs associated with the service of ministers may also go down there. It is certainly more modest, it is certainly possible to review and rationalise the fleet used by the government and ministries, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U173	Peter Ernits, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U174	Good manager! Good waitress! As I understand it, this bill could be called a'stummy' draft. There is no analysis, there are no real documents, which in the case of serious drafts are just a gut feeling. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U175	Thank you. You didn't get it right. We have quite accurately calculated that the positive impact of this draft is that we are saving EUR 241000 of public money in this year's view. If we look at the next year and the increase in the level of cost benefits, this amount should be around EUR 1 million. You mentioned the feeling. I have this feeling that, in this feeling, we can go to the country's other costs, which are beyond our own benefits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U176	Good manager! Good Andres, first of all, thank you! It is right that the costs of government should be reduced. But what this bill says is the best solution is questionable. However, I suggest that, if the procedure for this draft goes on by chance, we should consider very good examples from Finland and also from Latvia. These are our two neighbours who take into account where the Member has been elected and how much he has to be present and then look at how these costs are compensated. My opinion is that no matter where you're chosen, there should be a level playing field. If you think I'm from Tartu, I come here and rent an apartment here, and it's like a lot better than being with a woman every day, you're wrong.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U177	Aivar Chef.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U178	Thank you, Honorable Aivar. I take note of this comment.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U179	Eiki Nestor.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U180	Honourable waitress! I hope you'll apologize for my question being a little... Despite all my respect for the Free Party Group, which is sincere, I must say that you have always had one of the favorite questions you put about each draft. I'm going to ask you this question. Was there any intention to develop? [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U181	Yes, the intention preceded the drafting of the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U182	Thanks to the waitress! No more questions, no more direct, no more hooks. The presentation of the commission is made by Jaak Madison, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U183	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu discussed the draft of the Free Party on 15 October. All members of the Commission, except Lauri Luige and Tiit Terik, took part in the meeting. The debate on the draft was very lively, with very interesting, argumentative and different views expressed. At the meeting of the Commission, Mr Andres Herkel was the guardian of the draft, who also took part in the session as Mr Jüri Adams' alternate and answered all the questions very thoroughly. The prevailing attitude in the Commission was that the draft was not supported, but the debate was generally very smooth and did not last very long. It was decided to put the draft on the agenda by yesterday, 23 October, but this debate was postponed to today in relation to the end of yesterday's sitting. It was proposed that the draft be rejected by six delegates: Helmut Hallemaa, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Marko Pomerants, Mart Nutt, Mikhail Korb and Peep Aru. Two delegates voted against: Andres Herkel and Jaak Madison. It was decided to appoint a speaker here, a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. That's all for me right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U184	The question is asked by Küllik's Hatter. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U185	Good vice chairman! Good waitress! Did the Commission mention that, for example, less than half of the prescribed cost compensation could be used by the Free Party Group to repair the canteen? The Free Party Group has made a major contribution to this. Didn't you worry that if this happened, the costs of repairing the Chancellery of the Riigikogu would collapse?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U186	Thank you, Reverend Asker! In particular, no member of the Commission raised this proposal in the Commission, but as a personal voice now, I think that the proposal is very significant and deserves a meaningful debate. I think this is primarily a question to the Riigikogu's board of directors of how to settle the budget and the surplus that is left with the cost benefits, what the ambassadors have not used up.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U187	Thank you very much for the waitress. There are no more questions. I will open negotiations with representatives of the political groups. Jüri Adams on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U188	Mr President of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I want to talk a little bit about the history of this problem. Firstly, because there has not always been such a thing in the Riigikogu as an institution for cost benefits. Secondly, it has not always been exactly what it is now. Thirdly, I would like to remind you that, as long as we have had cost benefits, we have been sent by scandals during each formation, when journalists and the general public have accused one or the other representative of using it too much or wrong or on the wrong things, and this has brought down the reputation of the entire Riigikogu in the public's eyes. I start with the fact that before World War II, in the previous Republic of Estonia, there was no such thing as cost compensation in Parliament. This means that it existed, but only if the Riigikogu sent someone on a mission on behalf of the Riigikogu. This was decided by the Riigikogu's board and then the travel expenses were paid, as is generally the case. From experience before World War II, it is important to know that there was something that is somewhat similar to compensating for transport costs. In fact, as before World War II there was a rather dense railway network in Estonia and the railways were controlled by the state, the state gave the members of the Riigikogu such a gift that from the nearest railway station in its home to Tallinn and Tallinn, in turn, a free ticket was given to the members of the Riigikogu for the journey back to the closest railway station in its home. No other transport compensation or benefits were known at the time. Our current cost benefit system started with the last Supreme Council. It had its own car base from Soviet times. That means there was a whole bunch of black Volga used by the Supreme Council. When the Republic of Estonia was restored and the VII Riigikogu came together, the car base continued its activities initially. All of us who were members of the Riigikogu at the time were able to order a car from this car base when we had to take a ride. Personally, I have a very good memory of a ride from this car base. I was driving behind Petseri, then I wasn't at the border, and since the woman driver who was driving the car was from there, behind the current control line, it was quite interesting to discuss these matters with him. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U189	Please! Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U190	During the VII Riigikogu, the money was counted and it became quite clear that maintaining such a car base is not financially meaningful. Then they decided to replace it by paying cab bills. That's how it went. But in the meantime, there was another development. In fact, there were very few private cars before independence, but after 1992, the massive introduction of second-hand western passenger cars into Estonia began. Anyone who suffered at all from his wallet bought a car. So the use of taxis remained a minority, and rather those who went to work in the Riigikogu with their own car asked whether the cost of petrol could not be compensated. This is the part where the cost benefits started at all. I do not remember that during the VII and VIII Riigikogu there would have been any other type of cost benefit than paying off the cost of petrol. But then another important development took place. In fact, Estonia became richer and instead of the second-hand Western cars, we became the rule for leasing new passenger cars through banks. Certain people wondered if it would be possible to include it in the Riigikogu's so-called expenses. The memorable and most important moment was in 2003, on the day of Riigikogu X elections. At that time Toomas Savi, the Chairman of the Riigikogu, held a meeting of the Riigikogu's board alone, and at that meeting he approved the rules for compensating expenses with his signature, the wording of which, I do not know whether it was, or by accident, was such that he also allowed certain types of leasing payments to begin to be paid. I have a request to the Executive Board of the Riigikogu. I can't remember this year of 2003; it was probably the text of the decision of the board of directors on 5 March; it is no longer accessible to me; it is not accessible anywhere in the public database. Maybe we can track down this remarkable abyss. There are two fundamental questions. Firstly, whether Estonia is going this way, that the members of the Riigikogu receive a rather high basic salary and do not need to be reimbursed in addition to expenses, or, as has been the case in the meantime, that wages are reduced for various reasons, for example, at present it is two and a half of the Estonian average, there were four once and then expenses have to be reimbursed. Secondly, there are matters of principle. Does a member of the Estonian Riigikogu have to pay the state, the taxpayer, all work-related travel expenses? To this question, whether the communication and IT costs that our work currently entails must also be paid out of the state's pockets have now been answered almost positively. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U191	Jüri Adams' proposal has already been written down and you will definitely receive a reply from the Riigikogu Board. There are no more requests for negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to reject draft 647 at first reading and it has been properly drafted. We will go to the preparation of the vote, and there will be no going anywhere. Honourable Riigikogu, I vote on the commission's proposal to reject the draft law amending the status of a member of the Riigikogu, initiated by the Group of the Estonian Free Party, 647 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. There were 44 delegates in favour of the proposal, 15 against and no abstentions. The proposal of the commission was supported and draft 647 has been rejected at first reading and falls out of the Riigikogu proceedings.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U192	The next item is the third reading of the draft Public Information Act 671 initiated by the Government of the Republic. I will open negotiations with representatives of the political groups. There's no call. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft. I am voting on the draft law amending the Public Information Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 671. Please take a stand and vote. 68 delegates voted in favour, 8 against. Draft Act 671 amending the Public Information Act initiated by the Government of the Republic has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U193	Third reading of the Act amending the Consumer Protection Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 661. Do the groups want to start negotiations? That's not what you want. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft. I am voting on the draft law amending the Consumer Protection Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 661. Please take a stand and vote. 72 delegates voted in favour, 8 against. Draft Act amending the Consumer Protection Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 661 has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U194	Third reading of the draft Act amending the Law of the Official Journal of the State initiated by the Government of the Republic. Are the groups willing to negotiate? That's not what you want. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft. Since we are in the active voting zone, perhaps the hall is ready to vote. [[???Hääl saalist: 'Jaa.'???]] Thank you! I vote on the draft law amending the Law of the State Gazette, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 659. Please take a stand and vote. 73 delegates voted in favour, 8 against. Draft Act amending the Law of the Official Journal initiated by the Government of the Republic 659 has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U195	Attention! Second reading of draft Act 677 on the Accession of the 1979 Convention on Long-Range Transboundary Air Pollution to the Protocol on Acidification, Eutrophication and Ground-level Ozone Reduction and on the Adoption of Amendments to the Protocol 2012. Mr Valeri Korb, member of the Environment Committee of the Chair, please report.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U196	Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on the Environment of the Riigikogu at its meeting on Monday 15 October, including Valeri Korb, Andres Metsoja, Meelis Mälberg, Eev Paasmäe and Kalle Palling, was absent from Urve Palo and Terje Trei, reviewed the accession of the 1979 Convention on Long-Range Transboundary Air Pollution to the Protocol on Acidification, Eutrophication and Reduction of Ground-level Ozone and the draft Act approving the 2012 amendments to the Protocol. At the committee meeting, we immediately started negotiations and Rainer Vakra, the chairman of the committee, stated that the first reading of the draft was completed on 26 September and that the deadline for submitting amendments was 10 October. There were no amendments to the draft and the Commission's decision was as follows: to propose to send draft 677 to the Riigikogu plenary for second reading, including by 24 October (consensual) and to propose to hold a final vote on draft 677 (also consensual). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U197	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I'm opening negotiations. As this is a second reading, all members of the Riigikogu can take the floor. That's not what you want either. The commission's proposal, as you have heard, is a final vote on the draft. We'll do it in a minute. The rapporteur has already said that there have been no amendments to this draft law. I therefore vote on the accession to the Protocol on acidification, eutrophication and reduction of ground-level ozone of the 1979 Convention on Long-Range Transboundary Air Pollution, initiated by the Government of the Republic, and the draft Act approving the 2012 amendments to the Protocol. Please take a stand and vote. 65 delegates voted in favour, and no one voted against. Bill 677 has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U198	Second reading of draft Act 625 on the ratification of the Act on the Government of the Republic of Estonia, the Government of the Republic of Lithuania and the Government of the Republic of Latvia on the prevention, preparedness and response of emergencies. Mr. Raivo Aegi, member of the Legal Affairs Committee, please waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U199	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Legal Affairs met on 16 October to prepare for the second reading of the ratification of this long-named Treaty. As guests, Priit Laaniste, Head of the Rescue and Crisis Management Policy Department of the Ministry of the Interior, and Kadi Parmas, Legal Adviser to the same department, were invited. Ms Laaniste stated that no amendments had been received after the first reading by the deadline and that the same was confirmed by Ms Rikart, adviser to the Committee on Legal Affairs. When a question arose about the Estonian translation of the contract after the first reading, the answer was that the text of the agreement was signed even in four languages: Estonian, Latvian, Lithuanian and English. If there are disputes or disagreements about the linguistic suitability of terms, the English version must be used and, if linguistic changes are required, they are made through the diplomatic channels of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Committee on Legal Affairs unanimously decided to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda by 24 October and that the final vote on the draft be carried out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U200	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Is there a desire to negotiate? That's not what you want. No amendments have been tabled to draft 625. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft. Is the hall ready to vote? Thank you! I am voting on draft Act 625 on ratification of the Agreement on Mutual Assistance and Cooperation in the Prevention, Preparedness and Response of Emergencys by the Government of the Republic of Estonia, the Government of the Republic of Lithuania and the Government of the Republic of Latvia, initiated by the Government of the Republic of Latvia. Please take a stand and vote. 68 Members voted in favour with two abstentions. Bill 625 has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U201	Second reading of the draft Act on the ratification and termination of the Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Republic of Poland on mutual facilitation and protection of investments, initiated by the Government of the Republic of the Republic of Estonia. Mr Oudekki Loone, member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U202	The first reading of Bill 446 was completed on 26 September, and the deadline for submitting amendments was set at 5.15 p.m. on Wednesday 10 October. No amendments were tabled at that time. The Committee on Foreign Affairs continued to prepare for the second reading of the draft at its meeting on 15 October, approved the draft for the second reading of the text and explanatory memorandum, and consensually decided to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the second reading of the draft 672 be made on the agenda of the Riigikogu plenary session on Wednesday 24 October, the final vote on the draft and the adoption of the draft as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U203	Just in case: at the beginning of the report, there was another bill number, but was it supposed to be draft 672, not 446?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U204	Absolutely! 672 SE.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U205	Absolutely clear. Any questions for the waitress? Thanks to the waitress! Is there a desire to negotiate? That's not what you want. There are no amendments to the 672 bill, as you have heard. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft. I am voting on draft Act 672 on ratification of the Agreement on Mutual Promotion and Protection of Investments between the Republic of Estonia and the Republic of Poland, initiated by the Government of the Republic of Estonia. Please take a stand and vote. 73 delegates voted in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Bill 672 has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U206	Second reading of Bill 640 of the Law amending the Law on Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances and their Precursors, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Monika Haukanõmme, Vice-Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, please be a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U207	Mr President! Good ambassadors! I will give you an overview of the preparation for the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances and their precursors 640 and of what took place in the Committee on Social Affairs. The first reading of the draft decision took place on September 12th, including. The deadline for tabling amendments was set at 26 September. No amendments were tabled by members of the Riigikogu, committees or political groups on the draft. In addition, the Committee on Social Affairs also asked stakeholders to give their opinion. We learned that the Agency did not have any opinions on the draft, and they did not see the circumstances that required discussion there, nor did the Tax and Customs Board and the Estonian Forensic Institute have any proposals either. The Committee on Social Affairs prepared a second reading in two sessions: 15 October and 22 October. We also made procedural decisions. Only linguistic improvements have been made in the draft, but not in substance. The Social Affairs Committee decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for a second reading by 24 October and to propose that the second reading be stopped. In the event that the second reading is closed, the Commission proposes that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for the third reading on 7 November inclusive. The decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U208	Any questions for the waitress? There aren't any. Thank you very much for the waitress. Do you want to negotiate? That's not what you want. No amendments to the draft have been tabled. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of Bill 640. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U209	Second reading of the draft law amending the Copyright Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Heidy Purga, member of the Committee on Culture, please be a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U210	Ladies and gentlemen, President-in-Office of the Council. This amendment passed the first reading in this Chamber on 26 September. The members of the Riigikogu and the political groups did not submit any proposals for the draft by the deadline for submitting amendments, by 10 October. The Committee on Culture prepared the second reading of the draft at its meeting on 16 October. At that same meeting, the Commission decided to make six amendments on its part, which were predominantly technical. Following the vote on the amendments, the Commission decided to refer the draft to a second reading in plenary today, 24 October, and proposed that the second reading be closed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U211	Any questions for the waitress? There aren't any. I'll open negotiations if you want to have them. That's not what you want. As you have heard, six amendments to the draft law have been tabled. Let's go through them together. All of them have been presented by the Committee on Culture and all have been fully taken into account, however. The first amendment, the second, third, fourth, fifth and sixth amendments, as well as the Committee on Culture and the decision of the commission are to take full account. We have examined the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 686. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U212	Second reading of the draft law amending the Government of the Republic Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic 662. I would like to ask Helmut Hallemaa, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U213	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, I will give you an overview of the preparation of the second reading of bill 662 in the Commission. In the large Chamber of Parliament, the draft was at first reading on 26 September. The draft will make regulation more flexible by giving ministers the opportunity to delegate acts and decisions on behalf of the agency to officials. This comes first and foremost from the reform of rural governments, as several tasks came from there to the competence of the ministries. I would like to say in advance that the Commission is proposing one amendment: the abolition of the education requirement of the Secretary of State will be abandoned. The Commission held a second-reading debate on two occasions, in two sessions. On 15 October we had a substantive debate. We took procedural decisions, and we also voted on the amendment at the meeting on 16 October. No amendments were tabled by the deadline, except for the proposal of the Ministry of Finance on the same requirement for the education of the Secretary of State, which was also discussed during the first reading in this Chamber. The Commission reached the conclusion during the debate that it could actually remain within the scope of the current law. For the sake of truth, it should be said that a good colleague from the Commission, Hanno Pevkur, came up with this idea already in the first-reading debate in the Commission. Personally, I felt that this requirement was not really necessary. If you remember, the Heiki Loot, who has been working for a very long time, since 2003, is also in office as a judge of state. My reasons were both in the Commission and, in essence, that the State Chancellery actually deals not only with legislation but also with the service of government meetings, but also with many other matters. Of the structural units for the main activities, there are seven, only two are involved in legislative and session service activities. As a second proposal, the Ministry of Finance proposed that an amendment should be made to the inclusion process provided for in the Planning Act. Today's law provides for the involvement of the Minister responsible for the field. The Ministry of Finance wanted to write it more rigorously and sign up for one ministry. Mr Pevkur and Mr Pomerants were opposed to this in the Commission's discussions. The Commission finally found that this would not be formalised as an amendment by the Commission. In addition, in the run-up to the first reading and between two readings, the Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities has initially presented a proposal and now a comment, wishing to change several of the moments under the Planning Act. It was considered reasonable to do so together with the revision of the Planning Act. The planning law that has been in force since 2015 is under in-depth review, and there are quite a lot of substantive things. Procedural decisions were taken and the amendment was voted at a second meeting on 16 October. The content of the amendment is that § 1 (2) is waived, which provided for the annulment of the educational requirements of the State Secretary laid down in the current law. The members of the committee, Marko Pomerants, Erki Savisaar and Hanno Pevkur, supported this in the vote, and Mr Helmut Hallemaa, before you, did not take part in the vote. We also made four procedural decisions, two of them by consensus and two by one impartial vote. The consensus included Marko Pomerants, Helmut Hallemaa, Mikhail Korb, Erki Savisaar and Hanno Pevkur. Mr Pevkur was neutral in two votes. We proposed to put the draft on the agenda today. This has taken place and the debate is ongoing. We decided to propose that the second reading of the draft be terminated (including by consensus) and that the draft be sent to third reading when the second reading is completed today, on 21 November 2018 and then the final vote on the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U214	There are questions for the waitress. Hanno Pevkur.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U215	Thank you, Mr President. Good colleague! In the Commission, we also discussed that this draft is not really needed. In the case of this draft, the jacket was the educational requirement of the Secretary of State and, in order not to come to the Grand Hall of the Riigikogu with a one-line bill, a small amount of minor changes were sewn into it as buttons, one of which is a substantive change. I ask you, as a central partyman, if you see the need to delegate the political responsibility of a minister to an official on any matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U216	Thank you for your question. I am currently acting as a Commission waitress. And whether it's a jacket or a button is a question of your own. In fact, as an alternate member of the Commission, Andres Herkel, as a good colleague, had, on the contrary, believed that there was no point in dealing with the education requirement of the Secretary of State under this law. In my opinion, these things are still the result of the reform of rural governments. Several tasks had actually been delegated to the state administration at the time, and the last few years were, in essence, to the county governor in the administration of the Ministry of Finance, just as these things were not done with the signature of the minister. Several of these matters have come to ministries in the hands of the Minister or in the fields of competence. For example, the decision to acquire land in border regions, where the Minister is authorised to delegate it to the Police and Border Guard Board or to the Defence Police Department under the Land Reform Act, the tasks of the implementing unit of national programmes can be delegated to the cooperation body of local authorities and there are many other things. So I think it's well-founded. It is not quite the case that all things can be arbitrarily delegated.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U217	Aivar Chef.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U218	Good manager! Good waitress! I also have a question about the change in the word 'Ministry of Finance' when 'Minister in charge of the field' is changed. I'd understand if there was a deputy chancellor, head of department, or as you said before, he was a governor. The ministry is just the name of one institution. So who's the Ministry who's gonna sign or who's gonna make the decision? There's gotta be somebody in particular who's got a responsibility. If he's not a minister, he's gonna delegate to someone, I get it. But the word 'Ministry' doesn't go any way. I saw that § 2, Amendment of the Law on the Foundations of the Property Reform of the Republic of Estonia, is written in this way, and § 4, Amendment of the Law on the Use of Money Received from Separation, is also written in the Ministry of Finance instead of the Minister responsible for the field. It doesn't make sense, the institution doesn't make decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U219	It's not like the minister's responsibility is going away. The Minister is entitled to delegate certain matters to officials.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U220	I'm sorry! Did you miss your answer? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U221	I answered basically, in fact, the Minister is subdelegating. The Ministry of Finance does not delegate.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U222	Let me remind you that there are two oral questions. Hanno Pevkur is taking advantage of this second chance.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U223	Thank you, President of the sitting. I really do. You mentioned, good Helmut, that there is, among other things, the question of border countries. In my opinion, this is not just the task of the PB or the kapo. In fact, this is often quite a political question as to whether or not border countries can be privatized and privatized. Quite by accident, I found this weekend, reading the book of Marko Pomerants, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, an interesting paragraph where he describes the birth of the coalition agreement and, at one point in the coalition agreement, the text that Mikhail Stalnukhin's wish to create a chance to privatise the land on the basis of the Narva region. Could this be the first point in the sequence that Stalnukhin is given a gift so that he can finally fulfill the wishes of his constituents?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U224	Thank you. I'm sure that's a pretty interesting question. I haven't read that book. The book certainly reflects the opinions of a certain person, the author. I don't think the law allows any such gifts to be made. However, there is certainly a prudent delegation right here. I am convinced that such gifts are certainly not allowed by this law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U225	Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U226	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! This relationship between jacket and button on this draft is confusing and debatable, but one thing that seems clear to me is that the education of the Secretary of State and this delegation of signature are issues at different levels; they do not necessarily have to be in one draft. Can you now tell us clearly and unambiguously which political parties represented in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs support that the requirement of legal education may have been removed from the Secretary of State in order to expand the number of candidates and which political parties support the maintenance of this requirement, and which parties support that can delegate tasks, and which consider that, for important issues such as the acquisition of border countries, the Minister himself must sign?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U227	Thank you. Of course, there will not be a political vote in the Commission, but all the members of the Commission will be free in their decisions, just as in this Chamber, so in the Commission, they will judge by their conscience. Let us now take this issue of educational requirements. There were at least three parties in the first-reading debate and they said that there should certainly be at least a requirement for higher education. Mart Nutt, who is a member of the Fatherland Party, felt that this person should have a master's degree. Helmut Hallemaa, a member of the Centre Party, agreed. In fact, I still think that there is no need for a requirement for legal education in such a place if the Secretary of State and the State Chancellery at all perform very different tasks. Hanno Pevkur and Peep Aru, representatives of the Reform Party, agreed during the discussions that today's right should be preserved, and Andres Herkel was of the same opinion, at least while we had him as an alternate member of the Commission. The fact that it is possible to read that the requirement for education is being abolished was probably a mistake at the time of the first reading. The consensus in that vote was expressed by Marko Pomerants, Erki Savisaar and Hanno Pevkur, all of whom are from different political parties, and I did not take part in the vote, but rather I was also of the opinion in my speech that the educational requirement should be stricter in order for a master's degree to be required.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U228	Thank you very much for the waitress. There are no more questions. I'm opening negotiations. Please, Hanno Pevkur!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U229	I will try to be brief. In my opinion, of course, this law is not necessary; our legal space is already overburdened with unnecessary laws. This bill is a genuine example of a law that is not needed. This bill may be short, but its deeper content is completely present and measurable. First of all, it's deeper in what was left out of it. The amendment of the educational requirement was deleted and the current law, i.e. the Secretary of State must have legal higher education, remained in force. I, too, feel like, by the way, Mart Nutt, that, if this educational requirement were to be amended in any way, it would be more rigorous and should be a legal education and, in particular, a master's degree or a master's degree equivalent (before Bologna). This change was out, but you can live with it. The position of Secretary of State is not just the position of top executive in Estonia, but is the highest official in the state. The second and much deeper problem, however, is that today's government is trying to propose that political decision-making be delegated to officials. This is a fundamental problem. If it weren't for the bill, it wouldn't be a problem. Today we are clearly faced with the fact that it is very likely that the decision at third reading must be taken whether to empower the Minister to delegate his decision-making to officials. In the Commission, even one of the reasons given by the Ministry of Finance was that the Minister was not always caught. Come on! Digital signature is invented, even mobile ID is available! Ministers are many times more accessible than perhaps 5, 10 or 15 years ago. That is the substantive concern that this bill actually has. Plus the formal concern that it's been instigated one way and the other way and it's been taken out of a few points. In fact, we shouldn't be handling this bill in this Chamber, but I thought, for the sake of the verbatim, I'd come and say the two biggest concerns in the remote. Certainly, bordering countries are a real example of how we should not make very light - handed decisions. This is a matter of national security and national security can and must be decided at ministerial level, even at government level if necessary. Recalling the question I asked and the transcript of the coalition agreement in Marko Pomerants, I think, on page 88, where Stalnukhin would like to privatise the land under the Dachade, I would say that I very much hope that this is not the first step towards this. So I highly recommend that you consider the coalition itself before the green button is pressed on the vote, which comes with it, and which are its far-reaching consequences, which may not be noticed at first glance when reading the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U230	I don't see any more requests for negotiation. One amendment has been tabled for Bill 662. It has been presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and it is, of course, fully taken into account. Dear Riigikogu, the second reading of Bill 662 has been completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U231	Second reading of the draft law amending the Tax Administration Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws 675. Rapporteur on behalf of the Committee on Monetary Affairs Dmitri Dmitriev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U232	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law on the amendment of the Tax Administration Act initiated on 22 August and the related amendment of other laws strengthens the tax procedure and resolves the problems encountered in practice. In essence, we discussed the draft at first reading in the Chamber on 19 September. No proposals were received from the Riigikogu by the deadline for submitting amendments, which was on 3 October. The Estonian Employers' Confederation issued an opinion on the draft, which supported the objectives of the draft, but doubted that the changes would lead to a reduction in the administrative burden. The draft establishes the new data elements of the working register at the level of the basic Regulation of the register of taxable persons. According to the design, the title of the data set, the working time rate and the place where the work is to be carried out are added. After the first reading, the Commission discussed the draft at its meetings on 16 October and 22 October and, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, the Commission proposed three amendments to the draft. The first amendment introduces in the draft a provision amending the Law on heavy duty. The Heavy Duty Act introduces a provision according to which the data submitted to the Road Administration are also intended for supervision by the Tax and Customs Board and provides the Tax and Customs Board with the right to require the owner or holder of a heavy duty vehicle to correct the data submitted to the Road Administration if the owner or holder has submitted false data to the traffic register and paid less heavy duty than prescribed. There were 7 members of the Riigikogu in favour and 1 against, with 1 abstention. The second amendment amends the Health Insurance Act. The Tax and Customs Board will not have to inform the Health Insurance Fund individually about the registration of the spouse of the self-employed person, but will automatically exchange the data themselves. The third amendment is technical and improves the references in the entry into force provisions. The second and third amendments were proposed by the Commission in a consensual manner. We also proposed that the second reading be closed (by 5, against 1, with 0 abstentions) and consensually we proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda for the third reading by 7 November when the second reading is closed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U233	Questions for the waitress. Igor Kravtšenko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U234	Thank you, Mr President. Good Dmitri! You said this bill would solve the problems of practical life. You were talking about the solution to the heavy truck charge, but what's the practical problem? Please, be specific!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U235	Thank you for your question. In fact, this additional right, which is granted to the Tax and Customs Board, results from a decision of the Tallinn Circuit Court, according to which the Tax and Customs Board does not at the moment derive from the Heavy Duty Act, Tax Administration Act or other legislation the right to require the registration of heavy goods vehicles to be changed in the Road Administration's traffic register if, during an inspection, the owner or holder of the heavy goods vehicle has provided false information to the register. At the same time, the Tax and Customs Board, which is the tax authority for heavy duty vehicles, should have the right to require adjustments to the data on which the tax is based in the registers.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U236	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U237	Good manager! Good waitress! I have the exact same question myself about the law amending the HGV Tax Act. Aren't we going to create a situation where we give the tax authorities certain rights so that tomorrow we can eat and have some fines on the food? The limit is that it must not exceed a bit more than EUR 3000, but it can be fined in a row. Did the Commission also have a debate on whether there have been so many who have not paid this tax? And the other way around, is control at the border very decent? This heavy duty was actually paid to get money from foreign car owners. How does the IRS control the border? Do we just give a shit about our entrepreneurs, or was the idea of the law still so that we could get the money from the outsiders? We will give this money out of Estonia anyway by paying for our excise duties on fuel.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U238	Thank you, my good colleague. Thank you very much for a very good question. I do not remember who in the committee asked more or less what was happening to those vehicles belonging to foreigners. The Ministry came up with such an answer that they deal with the problems in parallel. At the moment, they are proposing that the Tax and Customs Board be granted this right quickly, following this decision of the District Court, so that at least the data can be corrected in the registers, but in parallel the issue of how to improve the efficiency of collecting taxes from them, say, external heavy goods vehicles. This really was raised in the Commission, and this is a problem at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U239	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U240	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable waitress! I am interested in the assessment and opinion of the Confederation of Employers. Of course, we all support the fact that tax collection is more efficient and all of them pay, but the assessment that the administrative burden will increase significantly and the quality of data will not improve is here on black white. At the same time, the explanatory memorandum rejects it as if. The Commission has taken a different view. But did you convince the employers or did they disagree? Have other operators' organisations been consulted on this? However, an increase in the administrative burden is something that we should avoid if possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U241	Thank you for the substantive question. Members of the Commission were also interested in the same subject. Fortunately, a representative of Statistics Estonia was present, who explained that, firstly, data are, of course, needed to produce statistics. The statistics obtained are used for a number of purposes, such as the calculation of the pay gap, transport planning and the development of labour market measures. On the basis of these calculations, the administrative burden is not reduced or increased as a result of the draft, but rather transformed. It is not necessary to update the data periodically, but only in the event of the commencement and termination of an employment relationship and of a change in the data. The so-called pre-filled forms will be introduced, which will simplify the process. So far, about one third of Estonian companies have been asked for this information every year. In addition, he said that in the future the population and housing census would be carried out every year and that work data would be collected on a registry basis. Consequently, no additional reporting obligation will arise for operators in the future. On the basis of this information, the Commission came to its conclusion.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U242	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U243	As a result of Mr Koka's question, I was the one in the Committee on Monetary Affairs who mentioned that the priority could still be to collect this tax from foreigners who pass through, rather than to deal with the particular intensity of domestic businesses. You said that the problem was being dealt with, that there might be some other committees being set up, and that maybe someday there will also be visits to these foreigners. But wouldn't it be wise to stop reading now and give the Ministry of Finance a deadline? Let them put forward proposals on how to collect tax from foreigners, and then this set of problems can be resolved within the framework of the current draft. If we put this aside, we will wait a very long time for the Ministry to reach the Riigikogu with its solutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U244	Thank you, my good colleague. We did indeed have exactly the same controversy in the Commission. At the time, there really was a question mark as to why we cannot solve all the questions at once. At the same time, the representative of the Ministry mentioned that it would be worth solving the urgent problem as a matter of urgency, which concerns the same decision of the Tallinn Circuit Court, which I have spoken about before, what is happening to the heavy goods vehicles of foreigners. A solution to this situation will be found when there is an amendment to the HGV Tax Act, as promised by a representative of the Ministry.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U245	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U246	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Let's get started on this heavy duty bill. Actually, the Road Administration has to deal with it. When that law was passed, before that, the profession knew exactly what it had to do. Here too, the Road Administration came up with ideas about where and how to do something so that, after that, there would be no burden on the state budget due to the implementation of this arrangement. But the question is this: how many of these problems are there for which we are now amending this law? Are there small or large percentage of local operators who have not registered their heavy goods vehicles and are missing money somewhere? The second question is that before the third reading, I suggest that the Commission summon the Road Administration and ask whether they will work or not, or simply follow the salary...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U247	Thank you, Aivar Chef!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U248	Thank you, my good colleague. Unfortunately, I don't have any more detailed information to tell you right now. If necessary, I can ask the Commission officials to send you further details later.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U249	Okay, no more questions. Thanks to the waitress! I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. Three amendments have been tabled for draft 675; all of them belong to the Commission. Let's go through them: first, second and third. The second reading of Bill 675 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U250	Next, the second reading of the Act amending the State Budget Act of 2018 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Rapporteur, Chairman of the Monetary Commission, Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U251	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, It is already common practice that, at the end of each year, the Government of the Republic will present a draft which will redistribute some state budget resources. So is this year. The amount to be redistributed is 216 million euros, which represents approximately 2% of this year's state budget. The first reading took place in this Chamber on 9 October. The Minister of Finance made a presentation, there was a debate. After that, it was suggested that amendments could be tabled by 17 October if necessary. No amendments were received from members of the Riigikogu, political groups or committees. On 18 October, the Committee on Monetary Affairs met. There was no debate, only procedural decisions were made. These are: to propose to the Riigikogu Board to conduct a second reading in this Chamber on 24 October, which was voted on today, and to conclude the second reading (by 4 members of the Commission, 0 against and 1 abstention). Amendments to this draft may also be tabled between second and third readings. Given that these state budget resources need to be used for other purposes until the end of the year, the deadline for submitting amendments is slightly shorter, i.e. 1 November at 5.15 p.m. This decision was taken in a consensual manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U252	Questions for the waitress. Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U253	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Yes, 2% is not a very large amount, but there is still enough money. 261 million, if I remember correctly, that's the sum that's going to be moved between the lines. Here's my question. I've seen where to lift. For example, I noted that from the children's and families' programme, 2.7 million of the support budget goes to the Social Insurance Board's information system for the development of SKAIS, for example. We also have the budget for next year on this table, and we already know what lines of money are going to be left over, and obviously this is not the first time there is money left over on these lines. Has it been seen that there could be a smaller sum on these lines next year? Well, in that case, you shouldn't be doing these redecoratings here at the last minute.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U254	Thank you. Maybe I was wrong. Now I don't know if I said 216 or 261, the right number is 216, it was for protocol, right? As far as child benefits are concerned, this question was also raised at first reading. At the time, we talked about some subsidies being awarded according to the applications received and sometimes based on the real number of previous years. In the Commission, we said that this is almost always the case, but a year could happen in such a way that the number of applicants would simply fall drastically, as in the present case. It is not possible to leave this money in the next year, as the unused money will not be left for the same article, but will go to reserve. If in one place there is a build-up of things that cannot be done by the end of the year, then in another place there are likely to be things that can, however, be completed by the end of the year using these released resources. Some examples I can give you later, if you're interested, but that's how it happens. So as far as I can remember, changes in the state budget for the current year have always been adopted in this Chamber, it is indeed a practice and there is nothing strange about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U255	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U256	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable waitress! I have a question that we did not discuss in the Commission on this point. This question only arose yesterday when we discussed the 2019 budget, but it concerns the 2018 budget. As far as the budget of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications is concerned, it appears that some kind of reserve has been made for certain expenditures in 2018, which will actually be used in 2019. There was a suspicion that just part of the budget expenditure for the following year had been written into the budget for 2018 for the purpose of drawing the budget balance. I heard that the same question about another amount was also raised in another committee. Do we have an overview of how many of these budget expenditures for next year have been drawn into this year's 2018 budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U257	Thank you. No, I don't know that. You were there until the end of the committee meeting, you heard the line I ended with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. I intend to communicate with the Minister of Finance as soon as possible precisely on the subject of this reserve, because the way in which this whole release of the reserve was formulated... Thank God we have the recording, because you can quote it nicely. So I understand your concern and I think that this is one of the issues that needs to be clarified. That's what I do. At the same time, well, I'm giving my opinion right now, I don't think the information we heard yesterday is 100 percent adequate, it's 50-50. So I hope to be clear on this. But I understand the concern.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U258	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U259	Good manager! Good waitress! This table is relatively difficult to understand compared to the previous one. There are only such empty phrases, labour and economic costs, etc. Some of the single things have been written out more specifically. For example, winter navigation has saved 587000. Warm winter, and that's understandable. But here's another number: Social benefits for those released from prison have risen to 14,000. What could be behind this? Are there more people out of prison?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U260	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I know what you're talking about, but let's check it out just in case. Look, is there a plus or a minus in front of this 14,000? I'm just saying. It's a matter of agreement. We're talking about it at the beginning of the table. The number of persons released varies every year, sometimes more, sometimes less. It is not possible to plan precisely the benefits paid to them when they leave prison. Hence these, I would say, very modest changes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U261	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U262	Good manager! Good waitress! I do not know whether it was mentioned in the Commission that if some area was given more money, why was it given money? I'll make sure the skyis1 gets a million more with 2.7 cupcakes. Isn't there something criminal here? In my opinion, the Skiis2 had to work two years ago, put it there, I might be wrong, tens of millions in, and the SKAIS1 had to stop working. Now the money's been put in the Skiis2 and we're renovating the Skiis1. What has the state ordered, or who is the subscriber? Does anyone know where the programming money really goes? Has the SKIAIS2 been shut down and there is going to be a renovation of the SKAIS1, although it has been argued that it cannot be repaired? I'm just remembering to reconstruct that time when I was on the Social Committee a few years ago. Then we asked it dozens of times. Did you or didn't you talk about it in the committee?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U263	Thank you. I'm trying to remember. We probably talked about it when I think the Minister of Finance was on the Commission. I remember three weeks ago, we were discussing this SKAIS1 and SKAIS2. It was a question of their parallel existence. As far as I can remember, I hope you understand, this is not the subject of this question right now, okay, otherwise I would have taken these materials out, their functions are somewhat different, the SkyIS2 is not yet fully operational and the information system is necessary anyway, so there is a SKAIS1. In any case, for my part, I would say how to tell you now that I am quite familiar with how data systems operate, how they are processed and what happens to them through my family. And, oh, my God, the things that don't happen to them! In the world of programming, sometimes absolutely unpredictable things can happen. So if according to my memory, the SKIAIS1 and the SKIAIS2 are the subject for at least the third time in the last month, it is probably worth asking the person who is specifically responsible what will happen to it. Anyway, there is a member of the staff of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, we are going to do a short written question on this subject, and then I will send you that answer. I, myself, believe that this is some kind of glitch that can be corrected by the fact that the SAIS is resuscitated. But let's check.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U264	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U265	Good manager! Good waitress! I'll come back to the last question. As we know, some 21000 euros have been allocated to those who have been released from the Riigikogu and a total of 14000 euros has been allocated to those who have been released from prison for a year. I ask in terms of education: how much will one of those released from prison receive this compensation? We get 21,000, but how much does one prisoner get?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U266	Thank you. I've never even gotten out of this place in the last 20 years, and certainly no one from my family or acquaintances has ever been released from a place that interests you. We discussed it. In particular, as regards this amount, I now recall that the Minister was also asked briefly, but we did not have any talk about how much is being obtained specifically. Interesting, yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U267	No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U268	Mr President! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! This remote control prompted me to come to a debate on the very subject of the same SAIS, so that it would not sound as if it were a small issue or a parallel existence between SAIS1 and SAIS2. It certainly isn't. Although there may be a question as to why I am talking about this in the context of this draft, because it is not directly a matter of this kind, I would remind you that it is directly related to this draft. The information system for social protection SKAIS is a very important database in Estonia, which accounts for about 28% of the state budget expenditure. Each month there are 7100000 wasps for about 700000 people in Estonia. There are pensions, benefits, benefits, maintenance assistance, victim support, as well as different services operated through this system. In addition, the same SKIAIS cooperates with some 20 data exchange partners. It is therefore crucial for the database and the work and service environment for people working in different occupations as well as for those in need. Let me remind you that this IT development contributing to the e-eduloo of the country has become, as if, our disgrace that we have already heard about here. It's been a negative word for a long time. With what we heard here today, 2.7 million from one line and 20,000 from the other line, in fact, only SKIAS1 is reanimated, and this is to somehow live and stand up so that he doesn't collapse for God at some point in time, because then these people, about 700,000 people, would be deprived of their pension. And why did I come to speak on this matter now? SKAIS2 has been developing since 2011. The truth is, he had to be ready for 2016. Today we are at the end of 2018 and we know that the initial development of the SKIAIS2 cost around EUR 9 million. Another call has been announced, it will be completed by 2022 and will cost around EUR 10 million. Today we are talking about the Skiis1, not the sums I have just brought out to you. We're actually waiting for this SKAIS2 to be finished. But why am I talking about this? This is due to the fact that there are two places in the same draft law amending the State Budget Act, which once again covers the reanimation of the SKAIS1. This money will be taken from the children's and families' programme, namely the support fund. In fact, we could use that money to help children and families who are in real trouble. And that's not all. From the social security programme, we take the same view, namely that the budget for the support of the repressed is going to be small in terms of budget, but a token amount, EUR 20000, once again to the SKAIS for investments in the Health and Wellbeing Information Systems Centre. So another EUR 2.7 million for the creation and development of the SKAIS, at the expense of our needy children and parents. I'd really like to ask you how long it takes. Finally. I hope there will be a time when, for example, the National Audit Office will carry out an audit and examine how much money we needed to develop the SKIAIS1 and the SKIAIS2 between 2011 and 2022, i.e. within 12 years, and whether it has actually paid off. For each of these steps, I really feel that the problem in our country is not that we are short of money, but that we lack the skills to manage processes and projects and that it is a question of competent people and decision-makers, or indeed a wise subscriber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U269	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U270	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Five minutes ago, I didn't know I was coming here to talk about anything, but Monika made me think. You listened to what was said, for example, on the same subject of the SKAIS. I don't know if there's a certified programmer in this room who imagines what programming and this technical process are all about in this life. I don't think there's anyone like that around here. How can we talk about this now as something malicious? On the other hand, when I go to the store, I have a list with me because for us men, a husband usually writes this list ready to buy it, this and this. You come to the store, you have the exact amount, you know what you need to buy, you go to the counter and you make sure it's a good day, it's a bargain or some things have gotten cheaper, but some things aren't on sale at all, and you're left with the money. Monika, if you use your logic, now you should go and insist that they don't offer me a booby bar discount, but I want to pay even more than the original price. After all, the question is that if all those who have applied for family benefits are entitled to family benefits, it is not possible to further distribute this money for the same purposes. There's just no way. Third thing. We can talk about different things, we can look for some criminal will, as Mr Pevkur always mentioned my name with regard to the Narva dachas in the debate on the previous draft. Thank you, Hanno, for bringing this up, now the people will understand... He's not here, I hope he's watching on TV. People understand how important this subject is. But has anyone ever discovered that there has really been a crime, no matter if I'm talking about this government, the one before or the one before? Have these things happened? Can you blame me like you did in your speech? Yes, sometimes mistakes happen, it is not possible to calculate with 100% precision how we will spend this year or next year on the resources we have, but that does not mean that we have acted abusively. So those three reasons brought me here to the remote. I think that a rather interesting debate arose during the discussion of a common matter such as the revision of the current state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U271	I'm closing the negotiations. No amendments were tabled to bill 695. Second reading is complete. The committees and political groups may table amendments, the deadline being 1 November at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U272	Second reading of the Act amending the Environmental Charges Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 645. The Commission's rapporteur is Rainer Vakra, Chairman of the Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U273	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! The draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 28 May 2018. The first reading took place on 12 September and the deadline for submitting amendments was set here with you on 26 September 2018 at 4 p.m. No amendments were tabled by members of the Riigikogu, political groups or other committees on the draft. The Committee on the Environment proposes one amendment. In the period between first and second reading, the Committee on the Environment has dealt with the draft twice: on 9 and 15 October 2018. Representatives of the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications took part in these Commission meetings, who explained the issues raised by the members of the Commission. Let us then take a closer look at what took place in the two meetings of the Commission. One was on the 9th and the other was on the 15th, like I said. For the first time, we had Deputy Secretary of State for Energy Ando Leppiman from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and Aire Rihe from the Ministry of the Environment. In addition, I must mention that after the completion of the first reading on September 12, even though no amendments were tabled, the Estonian Energia AS, the Estonian Nature Foundation and the Environmental Law Centre wrote to us. At the first meeting, Ando Leppiman, from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, noted that the draft impact assessment indicated that the price of the CO2 quota could have increased to EUR 16 per tonne. However, it has already risen to around EUR 20 per tonne and was not included in the analysis. It was also based on the assumption that, in the long term, the correlation between the price of the CO2 quota and the price of electricity would remain, but in reality, the price of the CO2 quota has rapidly increased and made the correlation volatile. In order for the state to make a profit on its own resource, it would be more secure to move forward with a resource fee based on oil prices. Perhaps speaking in rural languages, coming out of this programme means that Aire Rike, on behalf of the Ministry of the Environment, proposed to withdraw all the amendments that had been tabled earlier and to stick to only one amendment. § 1 of the draft law amending the Environmental Charges Act is amended and worded as follows: 'In subsection 9 (3) (7) of the Environmental Charges Act, the figure 6,39 is replaced by the figure 10. " Thus, only the increase in the ceiling of the oil shale mining right will remain in the draft amendment. In addition, there was a debate in the Commission on why it was EUR 10 and whether this range was needed at all. Aire Rihe explained and furthered that the obligation to determine the range is the result of the Supreme Court ruling and this gives entrepreneurs the opportunity to predict what range the government can operate in. My colleague Meelis Mälberg also asked where the previous maximum rate of 6,39 came from. It turned out to be just what it had become in its time, converted from the crowns. On the second occasion, when the Commission met, a summary of the previous sitting was agreed. In the meantime, an additional table setting out the average world market price of crude oil and heavy fuel oil and the corresponding rate of remuneration for oil shale mining rights was also sent to the Commission. In addition, we have been sent an explanation of the Supreme Court decision, which deals with the requirement to set at least a minimum premium and a minimum fee at the level of the Riigikogu Act, and the fact that the more precise conditions for the formation of the fee are delegated to the Government of the Republic. A long discussion was held on what this ceiling of EUR 10 corresponds to. It comes from the world market price. I believe that to good colleagues, the average world market price of heavy fuel oil with a sulphur content of more than 1% is said by the oil price, which is collated in Rotterdam. The maximum would be almost $120 per barrel, which would be matched by a maximum resource fee, i.e. €10 per tonne. Let me briefly summarise once again what the Committee on the Environment has finally decided. The Commission's amendment to draft 645 was decided to delete paragraphs 2 to 8 from § 1. I will also read it out so that everyone can understand it in the same way: 'The points left out would change the principles of calculating the payment of oil shale mining rights and link oil shale's resource fee to the market price of the products it produces (oil shale oil, electricity). The Commission decided that a resource charge based on oil prices should be maintained, as is currently the case. The abandonment of multi-product remuneration is due to the fact that, while forecasts at the time of the development of the different remuneration model showed that State revenue would be maximised under stable market conditions, the volatility of CO2 prices from the first half of this year and the foreseeable continuation of the different pricings in terms of public revenue will make it less viable. At the same time, it was decided to keep the oil shale mining right fee of EUR 10 per tonne as proposed, as higher levels of oil prices require a higher ceiling than in the current law. ' The Committee on the Environment supported this decision in a consensual, unanimous manner. We also proposed that, if the second reading is completed here today, the draft be placed on the Riigikogu agenda for the third reading. This decision was also taken in a consensual manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U274	Questions for the waitress. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U275	Good manager! Good waitress! I'm gonna ask for 10 euros for a ton of talk that if it happens that in a year's time the price of an oil barrel will be more than $120, will this bill come back to this table again? Or is it agreed that no more than EUR 10 per tonne will be charged, no matter how high the price of oil is rising?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U276	Thank you. I think that if this happens next year and after 3 March, it is up to the new Riigikogu to decide. Indeed, as I said, according to Estonian case law, this range must now be given to the government and the maximum limit is 10 euros. No projections show that this could be so high in the coming years, but the same question was also raised in the Commission. The answer is very simple: if this happens, which actually means very drastic and very important changes in the global economy, then the Riigikogu really must come together and redefine this range.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U277	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U278	Good manager! Good waitress! Everything's great, but now explain in the language of the country what really happened, why did the suit leave only a button? Before, the entire length of this text, along with the explanatory memorandum, was 14 pages, and now there are two pages left. In fact, everything has been grubbed up, except that the maximum environmental charge is EUR 10. Everything else is gone. Why the sudden gutting?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U279	Thank you. All this was due to the fact that the original plan, which had arrived at the Committee on the Environment, provided that the price of electricity would in principle depend on the market price of Nord Pool and the market price of oil shale oil Rotterdam, i.e. the average world market price of heavy fuel oil with a sulphur content of 1%, as I said. But the discussions in the Commission, as I said, really resulted from this knowledge, which was repeatedly confirmed by Ando Leppiman of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications: the volatility in the price of the recent CO2 quota has simply made this market unstable from the point of view of the Estonian state as the owner. It makes more sense to continue as we have actually done so far so that the Estonian state can receive a worthwhile reward for its oil shale.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U280	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U281	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good Rainer! Did it not come to the Commission's mind, too, when you were talking about a court settlement there, that a court like the one that intervenes in the work of the legislator wants to dictate to us how it should work?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U282	Thank you, good Raivo! Yes, we had this matter under discussion. If we do the steps, that's the ladder that starts at EUR 0.275 per tonne, that's the price that comes to the municipalities when the world market price of crude oil is about $40 per barrel, what happens then? Why can't this ladder go to infinity? We really did specify that several times. The Ministry of the Environment repeatedly confirmed that we have court decisions on the basis of which the Government of the Republic must be given a certain range. The private sector must have confidence that the Government of the Republic cannot meet for more than a month, for example, and by repeating resource charges, or by changing this formula. That's the reason why eventually this number has to be written in here. In fact, it's a change of number, putting the highest degree of this stage in this bill the only idea and content of this bill, and the reason why I'm standing here today in the first place.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U283	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U284	Good manager and waitress! Now, for the first time in this hall, there was the word ladder. But I ask you, in the Commission, did you talk about these ladders and regulation 75 from 2016, which was actually all the substance of this draft originally.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U285	Thank you. I have this ladder with me today. It's on this table. Of course, we already agreed at the end of the previous session a draft came to this Riigikogu for the first time from the Government of the Republic on 28 May, in that the Committee on the Environment will deal with this when we see the draft regulation of the Government of the Republic. And there's this draft regulation. The members of the Environment Committee know that. I believe that if other members of the Riigikogu wish to get acquainted with it, this possibility exists. This was certainly the starting point for further discussion of this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U286	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U287	Good manager! Good waitress! I see that by the time the law begins, the time when the amendments become effective, it is 1 January if the second and third readings should also succeed in the Riigikogu. Is a month or a month and a half enough time for businesses to count on a tonne price to go from EUR 6.7 to EUR 10?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U288	Thank you. The representatives of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, as well as the Ministry of Finance with whom we have met, have confirmed that this has been negotiated with businesses. And what is most important in the letter from Eesti Energia is that they actually accept this bill and want the current model to continue. I believe that the fact that we put this last ladder level higher doesn't change their daily work. Like I said, no prognosis shows that this could happen at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U289	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U290	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You mentioned that the Commission also received a letter from at least three organisations. These were the Estonian Nature Foundation, Eesti Energia and some other third...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U291	Environmental Justice Centre.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U292	Were there any radically different suggestions in these letters, or rather what those letters contained?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U293	Thank you. All three letters we received after the first reading. It can be said that they all considered it necessary to say that there is no reason to proceed with the draft as it stands. Hence the answer to Peter Ernits' question. Indeed, he said very rightly that if in the past there were eight points in the draft, which were unwritten, see that 14 pages, there is only one point left for today. There was a very long and very long debate in the Commission about whether we in the Riigikogu should change the law after such a cosmetic change, number 6.39 is intended to be converted to 10 ., and that is why we should do second and third readings in the first place. Wouldn't it be more appropriate to withdraw this bill or end it? There were a lot of legal ideas here, how to put an end to this, to the languages of the country, to the withdrawal of this bill. In the end, the representatives of the ministries and the Commission found that it was better to be safe than to regret. Estonian oil shale is our greatest value. If there were to be a miracle and the price of oil on the world market started to rise, we would also receive a corresponding resource fee for oil shale in Estonia. That is why we are actually changing this one number here, and we have been debating and debating this for several hours.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U294	Thank you, Rainer Vakra! No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U295	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, Surprisingly many of you are here. Two drafts and two readings. One is such a chubby, 14 pages, the other is two pages, something dramatic has happened here. A good colleague, Rainer Vakra, said something, but he wasn't really talking about those subcurrents. Let's get started. First of all, if you remember the first reading, there was Siim Kisler in the remote instead of me. I asked why this draft is so urgent that no planning, impact analysis or concept has been drawn up. At the same time, the Minister said surprisingly that this draft has been discussed in the government for over a year. So, two things together: urgent, which is why there is no need for planning, analysis, etc., but the government marinates and discusses for a year. The result is today. When you start with something that doesn't have an analysis or a design plan, you actually cut your body off and keep your hat or cut off your jacket and keep the button. Indeed, the oil shale tax will be increased to EUR 10 per tonne. That's all that's left, but all those constructions that were discussed for a long time only recently, at the first reading of the bill, have disappeared. And at last reading, I asked the minister about it, and he started talking about the ladder. Of course, we're not talking about the construction man, about how Siim Kisler talked about how he used the ladder. I quote: 'Considers, disputes have rather been about what the ladder should be in the case of electricity generation, where this ladder should start in the case of electricity generation: how low or high it should be if the price of electricity is low. ' And he goes on to say that the final exact ladder, when the Riigikogu gives limits to the law, lays down the decree of the Government of the Republic. We now come to Regulation No 75, which is from 2016. There are the tables that my colleague Vakra here wore a little bit. I have not seen it, but I saw it at first reading in the hands of the Minister of the Environment. And there's a question of what really happened. I think what happened was that one half of the government coalition wanted to make a ladder in its image. And these were our fellow Social Democrats. Two coalition partners, the Patriotic Union and the Centre Party, did not want to see such a ladder of warlocks. We talked about ending oil shale energy as a matter of national importance, a funny lobby here. And I also referred to what I'm talking about here. We were talking about how to make oil shale oil, or rather, brew oil shale electricity more expensive and lean towards renewable energy. As far as I can tell, with this urgent bill, that was the argument for a year, this kind of prank and the fight in the government. Just a few more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U296	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U297	The fight was about what to do next, whether to give in to the Snots. By the way, the former head of the House for Renewable Energy has in the meantime become a member of the government. I have watched with interest what happens to this bill when a well-known and respected lobbyist has become a government. I think that is the solution: it was decided to simply scrape out all the contents so that there would be no bigger problems. It was decided to keep the button and suit out or, if you want, leave the head and body to be eliminated. I think that is the content of this matter, which perhaps Mr Vakra here did not talk about quite a bit. Those ladders are the keywords of this thing. In Regulation No 75 of 2016 so much that, if we had approved this draft, we would actually have given the bill of lading on paper, which everyone has signed, that he agrees. After that, the government would have written something else, drawn ladders as needed. So thank you for your attention. And my respect for the Fatherland in the coalition and the Centre Party, who is probably behind this gutting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U298	Rainer Vakra, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U299	Ladies and gentlemen, I will speak for the sake of protocol, so that in any case the facts of history remain true. In the meantime, the previous speaker misled you with his information, perhaps because of the late hour of the evening or for some other reason. When we talk about this EUR 10 per tonne, we are not really raising it, but fundamentally changing the range. Mr. Ernits, you continue to issue a bill of intent for a decree from the Government of the Republic. So the government has to make this ladder in this range. It was simply the Committee on the Environment that had such an agreement with the Government of the Republic that we wanted to see this regulation before it was dealt with. By the way, there are more laws of law by which we ultimately give the government such powers of decision. Actually, it's nothing special or new. I would stress that in the past there were indeed two ladders in this draft: one for electricity and one for oil production. In order for the Estonian state to ultimately be able to generate a) more profit than oil shale and b) more oil shale into the chemical industry and smarter solutions instead of burning in the furnace, which is just as important, it is reasonable to have one ladder. If there were two separate ladders, that would mean that we would not try to maximise oil shale in economic terms as entrepreneurs. If we are already making this so-called crime, extracting oil shale from the ground inside it, it would be quite reasonable and reasonable to earn it in close proximity to the maximum, so that both entrepreneurs and the Estonian state can benefit as much as possible from it. Therefore, it is reasonable to do so on the basis of a single ladder. It does not matter what happens to this oil shale later: the damage to the environment is the same. Therefore, it is reasonable to have a single resource fee. It's as simple as that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U300	I'm closing the negotiations. One amendment to the draft 645 has been tabled by the commission. No one has a position on that. The second reading of Bill 645 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U301	Second reading of Bill 676 amending the Nature Conservation Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur on behalf of the Committee on the Environment is Urve Palo, member of the Committee on the Environment. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U302	Good evening, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, Draft Act amending the Law on Nature Conservation 676 was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 22 August, including. The amendment to the Nature Conservation Act aims to create a new national park The established national park is located in the county of Ida-Viru and is created on the basis of existing protected areas, i.e. a new area, a new area will not be protected. The proposed national park has an area of 43568 hectares. The first reading of the draft was closed on 26 September 2018 and the deadline for submitting amendments was set at 16 a.m. on 10 October 2018. No amendments were tabled by members of the Riigikogu, political groups or committees on the draft. During the period between the first reading and the second reading of the draft proposal, the draft was discussed at a meeting of the Commission, i.e. 15 October inclusive. The opinion of stakeholders and local authorities on the draft has been supportive of this, which was identified during the discussions during the preparation of the draft. At its meeting on 15 October, the Committee on the Environment decided to submit a draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for today, 24 October 2018, and to propose that the second reading be stopped. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U303	Questions for the waitress. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U304	Good manager! Good waitress! Where is this new protected area planned, state land or municipal land? Or is there a private country?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U305	There's one and the other, but there's very little private land. I'm about to find the right place to make sure I'm not wrong. There are mostly owners of Alutaguse, Lyganuse, Toila and Jõhvi. Alutaguse has 88% of the national park to be formed. The municipality of Toila agreed to the formation of the national park earlier. Others have not sent their proposals; they have tacitly approved it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U306	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U307	You said there was private property. Have private owners, then, all agreed that their lands will now have a protected area? This changes the conditions of use of these countries quite a bit.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U308	That's the point. It's said it won't. On the contrary, the entire territory of this national park is already protected, including this small part of the municipalities. There will be no new restrictions on the formation of the National Park. Rather, it will help to better market the region, invite tourists, including better planning of the entire road network in the region. This means such an economic side, for example, it is easier to organise events, get permits, etc. At least this is the way it has been presented. So there will be no new restrictions on the formation of this national park. Therefore, it is not known that there would be opposition. At least in writing, no one has announced that he would object to the creation of this natural park. As far as I know, the positions have been rather favourable.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U309	Thank you, Urve Palo! The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. No amendments were tabled to draft 676. Second reading of the bill is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U310	First reading of the Act amending the Act on the Implementation of the Common Agricultural Policy of the European Union, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 714. Initiator waitress, Minister of Rural Affairs Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U311	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! There's a bill 714 before you. The first-reading draft law amending the Law on the implementation of the Common Agricultural Policy of the European Union (CAP) has been developed mainly due to the need to update the law as a result of amendments to the regulations of the European Parliament and of the Council in force during the period of support for the common agricultural policy for the period 2014 to 2020 (i.e. simplification). Regulation 2017/2393 of the European Parliament and of the Council, adopted on 13 December 2017, or the omnibus Regulation amending the five basic regulations of the European Union's common agricultural policy, is the basis for the European Union's law on the implementation of the common agricultural policy, the first and also the main amendment of the EU CAP. The purpose of the Act is to exercise the freedom of choice granted to a Member State under European Union law to simplify the requirements for direct payments and, consequently, the 'Estonian Rural Development Plan 2014 Until 2018, Member States had to refrain from granting direct payments to persons engaged in certain activities, unless those persons demonstrate that the share of agricultural activity in their total economic activity is not negligible. These activities include the management of airports, water facilities, permanent sports grounds or recreational areas, the provision of rail or real estate services or the sole operation of forest management. With the exception of the first year (2015), when checking compliance with the requirement to be an active farmer, in essence, the additional checks carried out by applicants operating in the excluded list to establish active farmer status during the years 2015 to 2017 have shown that the majority of applicants active in these activities are still regarded as active farmers. This means that if the purpose of this requirement was to direct subsidies to persons who actually carry out agricultural activities and to exclude the granting of subsidies to persons who have little agricultural activity, then in practice, as a result of the implementation of this requirement, it has not been possible in Estonia to exclude applicants whose economic activities represent only a small part of the agricultural activity and who therefore do not belong to the target group of the aid. It can be said that the situation described in the preamble to the omnibus Regulation has materialised in the case of Estonia, where the amount of work needed to establish compliance with the requirement of active farmer status of applicants has exceeded the benefits initially considered in establishing such a requirement and control. Therefore, Estonia has decided to cease applying Article 9 (2) of Regulation No 1307/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council, i.e. checking compliance with the definition of active farmer as from 2019. This Decision was notified to the European Commission on 1 August 2018. The second amendment to the Act repeals the provision whereby, where appropriate, the PRIA publishes information on the implementation of the measures necessary to maintain the permanent grassland area in the Official Gazette of the Official Journal of the European Union. The more precise arrangements for implementing the measures necessary to maintain the area of permanent grassland and the additional requirements to be met by the applicant for the aid shall be laid down in more detail in Regulation No 32 of the Minister for Rural Affairs. Under that Regulation, applicants for single area payments and climate and environmental payments are obliged to maintain permanent grassland to an extent equal to the area covered by the application for permanent grassland in the calendar year preceding the year in which the application is submitted. The PRIA shall keep a record at national level of the obligation to maintain permanent grassland. If it is found that the ratio of permanent grassland at the level of the Estonian State has been higher than the allowed threshold, i.e. the ratio of permanent grassland to the total area of agricultural land has fallen by more than 5%, applicants will be obliged to re-establish permanent grassland. The PRIA shall inform the persons subject to the obligation to maintain permanent grassland of the implementation of the measures necessary to maintain the area of permanent grassland. On the implementation of the set-up of permanent grassland, the Director-General of the PRIA shall issue a letter of intent, in accordance with Regulation No 32 of the Minister for Rural Affairs, on the start and end of this situation (when the ratio of maintenance of permanent grassland has moved back to the permitted limits, i.e. reduced by less than 5%), which shall be notified and made public without delay on the PRIA website as well as in the Official Announcements in the Official Gazette. In practice, however, there is no need to publish information on the implementation of the measures necessary to maintain permanent grassland in the official publication Official Notices, as information to applicants, both individually and through the PRIA website, is more effective. In addition, applicants and other interested parties have developed a habit of using the PRIA website to obtain information on grants, and official communications do not know how to search for such information. Informing applicants, both individually and through the PRIA website, will ensure that important information reaches the target audience. The PRIA website is also a sufficiently reliable source and the information is updated very quickly, and therefore the obligation to publish Official Notices in the Official Gazette does not fulfil its purpose and is not appropriate. Therefore, the publication of information on the application of the measures necessary to maintain the permanent grassland area in the Official Journal of the European Union (Official Notices) shall be waived. The third amendment corrects the error in the section governing the selection of the law's guidance and training service and other knowledge transfer and notification provider. On 1 July 2017, in the course of the amendment of the Public Procurement Act, the clause mentioned in the ELUPS was also amended, which erroneously limited the scope of the procurement procedure. It is therefore not a substantive amendment, but a restoration of the content of the same provision of the EUCUPS adopted on 9 November 2016. According to the draft Act, the entry into force of the Act is foreseen on 1 January 2019. The period of entry into force has been determined on the basis of sufficient time for persons to have access to the amendments to the law and to make appropriate preparations and sufficient time for the development of implementing legislation. I would like the strength of the bill to be discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U312	Questions for the initiator. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U313	Good manager! Good waitress! It was nice to read, but give me a little review. The European Union gives us, like, freedom of choice, which is quite small, to facilitate the granting and receipt of these direct payments. How great is our freedom of choice in this area, and could it be greater?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U314	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu, for your question. This freedom of choice arose when Estonia was the Presidency of the European Union and the omnibus regulation was adopted. This regulation provides for a large number of measures which provide additional opportunities for Member States to simplify the common agricultural policy of the European Union. Here's a way. It is not rational to keep these registers because all the information is available on the PRIA website. But once the next Parliament comes to grips with agricultural policy here, there will be a great deal of additional opportunities and measures to be adopted at national level so that the country can decide for itself how to shape this policy. I think that a pretty big step has been taken so that agricultural policy is much more subsidiarity, that the Member States can decide for themselves and that the administrative burden is less than that, too, is cheaper.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U315	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U316	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! The words 'European common agricultural policy' either bothered me or came to my attention. And why did they start in the ears? It is precisely because it is not so uniform: the countries of the South, which have much more favourable agricultural production opportunities than we do, receive much more subsidies than we do. How do you feel about the same one? Are you entirely in agreement with this, or do you agree that this policy is not so coherent?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U317	Thank you. In general, I think that one of the major changes was when we entered the European Union. Since then, we have been pursuing the European Union's common agricultural policy. At national level, there is very little debate on this policy, there are major debates and discussions at European Union level. But is it a common policy and does it take into account the interests of all Member States? I think he's counting more and more. You have given an example of the level of direct payments with which we are really the last in the table. But there is also a reason for this: when we joined the European Union, this level was agreed and it is simply not possible to make a quick jump from there. If we sum up the first pillar, or direct payments, and the second pillar, or support for the rural development plan, we are, in fact, at the top ten in the European Union. So we should treat both of us together. In the new period, it is difficult to achieve greater equalisation, and the reason is one: the overall level of support for the EU's common agricultural policy is falling from around 40% of the total budget to 70%; in this period it is 40% to around 30%. And in a situation where 3.9% of agricultural support was withdrawn from all Member States, Estonia will achieve a 26% increase in the first pillar. I hope it does, at least that's the deal. In total, Estonia will also receive an increase in aid during the new period. I think that this is very positive and actually shows that we are able to agree on something at European Union level. But situations are different. For example, we can never dream of having the same level of subsidies as Malta or Cyprus. Those who have been to these islands know that the question arises as to how agriculture can be managed there at all. So we can't get real unity. Unity was in another country we came out of recently when it was there. However, there is progress to ensure that the Member States can decide more and that the rates of benefits are consistent, that is quite clear. This has been done by the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U318	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U319	Good manager and good Tarmo! Of course, we cannot be compared to Malta. You said that after 3 March, it would be even easier with these agricultural subsidies and bureaucracy, and that this simplification took place during the Estonian Presidency. My question is, how many personal favors do you have here? Although there is no Minister of Agriculture anymore, you are the Estonian Minister of Rural Affairs. Open up some cards: why are we talking about next year's election, why not now? And what role do you play in this simplification?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U320	Thank you. My role has been that when Estonia was the Presidency, we adopted two important regulations. One was the omnibus regulation, which had been dealt with for a very long time, and the other was the organic regulation. Pomerants, a good member of the Riigikogu, also writes about one good example in his book. On the morning of this day, when it was voted in the European Parliament to obtain a trialogue agreement, I was myself in Tallinn. I was not there, this vote took place in Parliament. I was first called by the German Minister for Agriculture and then by the Polish Minister for Agriculture. So when Estonia was holding the Presidency, the three of us agreed that this morning and reached a compromise so that it would be adopted. It was a very long thought. But the realisation that nothing will change in the European Union's agricultural policy after 3 March is not true. The European Union's agricultural policy can be changed if you elect a new parliament in Europe in June and if there are representatives of Estonia there. There will be changes in 2020 or something, because they are going to make a new policy. And it may even happen that this Parliament, the Commission and the Council cannot agree on the things that the Commission has come up with. It is possible that agreements will not be reached and will remain in the hands of the new Parliament, the new Commission and the new Council. It is not excluded that those elected from Estonia to the European Parliament will conclude these agreements.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U321	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U322	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. In some ways, you have already said that in three years, the PRIA carried out cross-compliance checks to find out if a person is the right farmer. So for three years, the PRIA was working intensively on this and found out that there are those who are not eligible for this list. And all the time, the number of those who were not suitable for farming fell. This is a very good sign that bureaucracy is decreasing and administration is improving. I wonder if there will be such a possibility in the future, according to this draft, that a person is simultaneously a farmer and a producer of robots, no longer a member of any exclusive list, and that the PRIA will no longer carry out these checks. A bit of a simple question, but do you think you could give me an answer?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U323	Thank you for a good question. This simplification will certainly provide an opportunity for the PRIA's confidence in these producers and applicants to increase. During this preceding period, from 2015 to 2017, there were over 800 applicants who had to provide additional data to prove their compliance with the definition of active farmer. Of these, 12 have not met the requirement of being an active farmer. This in itself shows that bureaucracy and control have not met the objective, that the resources and resources spent on it are not justified. I think the aim of this simplification is to avoid double control and bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U324	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U325	Thanks again! Minister, I ask for your reply to continue. If this control resource is now less needed and bureaucracy takes less time, where could it be implemented? Or is there another way?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U326	Thank you. That's a very good question. I think that controls should be applied where these checks are actually needed. Maybe you read the paper a few weeks ago. The land leaf has made a very thorough article on one of the livestock farmers whose animals are located in Saaremaa: in what situation these animals were and are in. We should be able to check how these animals are kept on the broads over the winter, whether all animals also have feed and whether the number of animals corresponds to what is in the aid application. We'll direct these controls there. Unfortunately, there are also many areas in this sector that are not controlled as closely as necessary. Of course, the rules of the European Union also say how many percent of this election must be checked. But I think there is also a great deal of activity in this sector that should not actually exist, and it should be checked more. These instruments and people could be directed towards such activities, so that competition is fair and taxpayers' money is used in the best way.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U327	There are no further questions for the initiator of the draft. The rapporteur for the Committee on Rural Affairs is Aivar Kokk, chairman of the committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U328	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 9 October the Rural Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu discussed the draft law amending the Act on the Implementation of the Common Agricultural Policy of the European Union initiated by the Government of the Republic. Reno Paju, Head of the Office for Direct Payments of the Rural Use Policy Department of the Ministry of Rural Affairs, was invited. Reno Paju introduced us to the bill and there were some questions. The Commission unanimously took four decisions: to appoint the Chairman of the Committee on Rural Affairs as the rapporteur for draft 714, to propose that the draft 714 be placed on the plenary agenda by 24 October, to propose that the first reading of draft 714 be terminated and, when the first reading is completed, to set 10 working days, i.e. 7 November at 5.15 p.m., in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Home of the Riigikogu Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U329	Questions to the Commission. No, it's not. Thank you, Aivar Chef! I'm opening negotiations. There's no desire. First reading of Bill 714 is complete. The deadline for tabling amendments is 7 November at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U330	First reading of draft Act 715 on Breeding of Farm Animals initiated by the Government of the Republic. The initiator's waitress is Minister of Rural Affairs Tarmo Tamm. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U331	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, You have before you draft law 715 on the breeding of farm animals. The need for the introduction of a new complete text of the Law on the breeding of farmed animals arises from Regulation No 2016/1012 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the zootechnical and genealogical conditions for the breeding, marketing and introduction into the Union of purebred breeding animals, hybrid breeding pigs and their germinal products, amending Regulation No 652/2014, Council Directives 89/608/EEC and 90/425/EEC and repealing certain acts in the field of breeding (hereinafter referred to as the breeding Regulation). It shall apply from 1 November 2018. In creating a new complete text of the Farm Animal Breeding Act, this part of the existing law, which is governed by the aforementioned European Union breeding regulation, was deleted. The Act lays down the procedure for the application for a breeding licence, the procedure for the examination of the authorisation and the approval of the breeding programme, the conditions for implementing derogations from the entry of animals in herd-books and breeding registers and the provisions for the supervision of breeding. Compared to existing laws, the draft makes three major changes. First, the Law on the breeding of farm animals will continue to apply only to pure-bred bovine animals, swine, sheep, goats, equidae and endangered breeds of agricultural poultry and hybrid breeding pigs. Secondly, the authorisation requirement applies only to associations of breeders of the above animal species wishing to establish and comply with a breeding programme for a breed in accordance with the requirements laid down. And thirdly, the authorised breed societies will be allowed to apply for approval of the breeding programme without requesting a new authorisation. Where, in accordance with the applicable law, the procedures for the approval of the licence and the breeding programme are dealt with as a whole, the draft shall separate them from each other. The role of declaring an animal breed threatened remains analogous to that of the new law, and the relevant provisions have only been clarified. Accordingly, it is possible for the breed society to apply for inclusion in the list of endangered breeds for all breeds of historical Estonian origin if the historical origin and population of the breed are scientifically proven. According to the current legislation, the condition that a breeding book for a breed has been kept for 50 years in the case of bovine and equine animals and for 30 years in the case of pigs, goats and sheep is to be recognised as being at risk. Authorisations issued under the current Farm Animal Breeding Act are also considered to be valid under the new regulation. Breed societies which currently carry out breeding programmes do not need to apply for a new authorisation after the entry into force of the regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U332	Any questions for the initiator of the bill? Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U333	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! When I read this explanatory statement, I get the feeling that there is actually more bureaucracy. Is that true? I do not understand that the situation will become more credible, because this area is already a technological and book-keeping obligation anyway.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U334	Thank you. There will certainly be no more bureaucracy. With this draft we will specify the regulation, it will become more understandable. And that is because we need to apply this Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council. As was the case here in the previous question, we are members of the European Union, and on certain issues legislation must be applied and taken into account. However, I do not think that the share of bureaucracy in this area can rise significantly if it increases at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U335	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U336	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. In view of the draft implementing act annexed to the draft legislation No 1 'List of endangered breeds of farmed animals', three breeds are mentioned here. How have these three names come into existence here and where has Kihnu's landrace gone?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U337	Thank you. Such a good question, where the sheep of Kihnu has gone, I couldn't have waited. To be honest, I owe you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu, an answer, but I will give you this reply as soon as possible. But that's a good question, where's the Kihnu sheep from that register? I guess he doesn't meet the requirements I read on this list. But, yes, that is a good question, honourable Member, where did it go? I'll find out, and I'll let you know. We can still make this clear between the first reading and the second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U338	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U339	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, do you think this new law will give Member States greater rights or restrict their rights when they list or withdraw endangered animals? Or what's the point of this law?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U340	Thank you. I don't think it's gonna narrow the list of endangered animals. Nothing has gotten complicated about this, and there is no limit to this law. This opportunity to register and keep records of endangered animals will in any case remain with us in the future. I'm just telling you, there are 16 legal persons in Estonia who are breeding farmed animals and who are authorised to do so. Of these, 13 are breed societies for breeding cattle, sheep, pigs and horses. In addition to the above, two licences have been issued for breed societies engaged in quail breeding, which are Estonian Birds Farmers Society and NGO Eesti Vutt. The licence for performance testing of dairy cattle has been issued to Estonian Agricultural Animal Performance Control AS. There are so many legal persons involved in breeding. The keeping of a register of endangered breeds is no limit to this law, it is not real.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U341	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U342	Good manager! Good waitress! I think I agree with what Küllik Hatter said. I do not know how much this will make things better, that these European requirements need to be implemented. And it's interesting to read here that there must be 10 males and 1,000 females to become an endangered breed. The question is why you are trying to delete the so-called Estonian Agricultural Animal Performance Control AS, which has been working on this for a long, a quarter century or more.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U343	I will respond to you in such a way that, following the entry into force of the new regulation, there will be no separate licence for performance reviewers. One such licence has been issued in Estonia for Estonian Agricultural Animal Performance Control AS. Nor shall a separate licence apply to the holders of the endangered breed. One such licence has also been issued to the Estonian Association for the Protection of Horses. In the future, these organisations may continue their activities without applying for authorisation, since neither of them is a breed society nor a breeding undertaking within the meaning of the EU breeding regulation. So no one's erased them, they can move on.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U344	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U345	Thank you. I ask the question in this way, including Krista Aru, how this law will encourage the existing endangered Estonian breeds not to disappear from these registers. Here, for some reason, there is no Estonian landrace, there is no Kihnu landrace. Does the regulation provide for any such conditions that a bovine animal of the Estonian breed may also fall out of it? Perhaps the fat content of his milk is too high in accordance with European Union directives.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U346	Thank you. This regulation of the European Union does not regulate it in such detail. I think that if we consider it necessary in Estonia and want to keep these animals in the register there, the European Union will not impose any sanctions or regulations on us. It is the right and freedom of a Member State to decide for itself which animals it holds in that register. But like I said, I'm gonna find out what happened to that sheep.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U347	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U348	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. In some ways, I repeat the previous questions. Tori's horse has been one of the symbols of Estonia through the ages strong, chubby and able to do everything. How does this fine regulation reassure those who stand up for these horses that Tori's horse breed will be preserved?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U349	Thank you. I can safely say that Tori's horse is part of Estonian culture. Tori Horse Farm, recently 160 years old, has survived all the regimes and all the governments. And I am pleased that this government has found a compromise and an opportunity to keep this breeding alive, which will ensure that Tori's horses will be there in the future. I do not see any fear or danger as to why Tori's horse should remain outside these registers, it is simply not possible. There is no point that precludes Tori from being in the breeding register. I don't see that fear, and there's no provision to rule it out. Tori's horse breed has been going on for centuries, and I think it's going on for centuries. I can, of course, say good news from this Riigikogu remote control. Last year, the Estonian state became richer because Tori's horses gave birth to seven foals, all of whom belong to the state.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U350	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U351	Good manager! Good waitress, I'll tell you in advance that Kihnu's landrace is a endangered breed from 21 January 2016. So have your officials sign it in. And the keeper of this herd book is the Kihnu Maalambasvatur Society. So let the officials count a little.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U352	Thank you for your observation. We have received a very comprehensive answer to this question. I think that somewhere here is the detail of which breeds belong and which do not belong. Thank you for your very good observation, and we will certainly take this into account. So I don't have to answer the honourable member of the Riigikogu separately now.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U353	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U354	Thank you. Dear Minister, We are discussing the law on the breeding of farm animals, and you were talking about pigs and cattle. I remembered one of Winston Churchill's sayings that animals are strange creatures: a cat looks down on you, a dog looks up on you, only a pig looks at you like one. Tell me what Winston Churchill meant by that. And does it have anything to do with your proposed bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U355	Thank you. I hope it has nothing to do with the waitress, but there may be something to do with this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U356	Thank you. There are no further questions for the initiator of the bill. The rapporteur is Aivar Kokk, Chairman of the Committee on Rural Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U357	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 17 October the Rural Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu discussed the draft Act on Breeding of Agricultural Animals, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Sirje Jalakas, Adviser to the Food Safety Department of the Ministry of Rural Affairs, and Katrin Reil, Deputy Director General of the Veterinary and Food Board, had been invited to present this draft. Here was a discussion of the sheep of Kihnu and Tori's horse rise. In this draft, it has to be said that if the breed has been studied for 30 to 50 years, research and breeding according to its species, it is possible to place it under endangered species either so or so. One of these species is also an Estonian quail, which goes under this law. So it gives the endangered animals and birds a little broader view. The Commission also made four consensual decisions: to propose that the draft 715 be placed on the plenary agenda by 24 October, to appoint a speaker here before you, to propose that the first reading of the draft be stopped and, if the first reading is completed, to appoint ten working days, i.e. 7 November, at 5.15 p.m., for the submission of amendments, in accordance with the Riigikogu's Rules of Procedure Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U358	Questions for the Commission rapporteur. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U359	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Did the Commission also discuss the draft implementing act No 1 accompanying the draft law, where endangered breeds have been given, and found that there is a shortage of this landrace, which is a really endangered species since 2016? Did the Commission notice and discuss this? And what was the Commission's position?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U360	The Commission discussed various options where, what and what. That is why I also stressed that all breeds that have been bred and studied for 30 to 50 years will be included in this regulation. If there are others that have not yet been put there by accident, we will make these improvements between the first reading and the second reading. As you know, you don't usually do things like this before you first read. That is why these ten working days have been given so that everyone, both members of the committee and members of the rest of the Riigikogu, can make their proposals.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U361	Thank you, Krista! Thank you, Aivar Chef! I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. First reading of Bill 715 is complete. The deadline for tabling amendments is 7 November at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U362	First reading of the draft law amending the Rural and Agricultural Market Organisation Act 720 initiated by the Government of the Republic. The initiator's waitress is Minister of Rural Affairs Tarmo Tamm. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U363	Manager! Dear Members, I'll come back to the previous point. I am sincerely positively surprised at how thoroughly, to the details, Members will read the drafts. It is simply not possible to pass through this Parliament in such a way that nothing is missed. Thank you. You have before you a draft law amending the Rural and Agricultural Market Organisation Act (hereinafter: MPKS). It has been developed, in particular, with regard to the need to lay down a mandate rule for the Minister responsible for the sector, in order to establish the submission of an application, a request for payment, etc. only by electronic means through the e-service environment. The amendment is necessary in order to allow the full use of e-PRIA in future, if necessary, in the case of grants under the MPKS. Although it is still possible to submit applications electronically, there is no possibility to switch to electronic applications only. The aim of the transition to E-PRIA is to facilitate the submission of an application and to shorten the processing time of the application. In 2017, five grants were granted through the PRIA on the basis of the MPKS and were requested by a total of 126 persons. The majority of companies were already obliged to carry out certain activities electronically, such as the submission of the annual report to the commercial register. The amendment does not mean that for all support measures, only e-PRIA will automatically have to be used in the future. The amendment will give the Minister responsible for the sector the opportunity to decide on this in the future for each of the support measures. The overall trend towards ePRIA concerns not only grants under the MPKS, but all grants under the PRIA. Similar provisions for the use of e-PRIA are already in force in the European Union's Common Agricultural Policy Implementation Act (EUCAPS) and the Fisheries Market Organisation Act (FMA). In addition to the e-PRIA amendment, the draft law regulates and clarifies the provision relating to the determination of grants and funds to be granted in the financial year. Thank you and I wish you the strength to discuss this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U364	Questions. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U365	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! The explanatory memorandum sets out quite a number of ways in which applications can be submitted by electronic means, i.e. an aid structure is provided for how to cope with the e-environment at all. Can you tell us what the actual workload is for the employees of the PRIA, the consuls who help applicants to cope with this e-system? It has also been said that the service is supported by Estonian rural development funds. What amount are we talking about, for example, in the context of 2019?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U366	Thank you, good questioner! I really can't tell you how much. But this service is primarily provided for because not everyone is a hundred percent editors via e-mail channels. There are other entrepreneurs to whom this is a stranger. We now want to give them at least the opportunity to enter these e-data together at the nearest PRIA service point or service facility and to further train and advise these people. This is not an absolute obligation in itself. There is no obligation to make all transfers via the bank today either, or cash. But the goal is definitely to fully switch to e-PRIA. This is also easier for entrepreneurs. This will make it much easier for the company to correct its small mistakes and to correct them in good time. This will save time and actually reduce the administrative burden. I don't think it's too much, but I really don't know how to tell you that.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U367	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U368	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The explanatory memorandum states that the PRIA Advisory Board is also involved in the development of e-PRIA. Who is this council made up of? Some lines later have been mentioned here that its members are actually applicants themselves. What have they been chosen for? And how does a person seek and then help to create a better application environment? Please explain this!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U369	Thank you. I will say right away that there can certainly not be a conflict of interest here, because the aim is to have a common goal of getting a simpler form. Of course, wisdom, those with more knowledge and better experience, must be exploited. Active farmers can also be advisors, and they can also have an advisory agreement. This is not excluded at all, since the consultancy services are provided by private operators. In the development of E-PRIA, the PRIA client house has been involved. The members of the PRIA Advisory Board are selected from 15 active applicants who have had a long-term cooperation relationship with the PRIA and who should be well aware of the organisation and customer needs of the PRIA as an external observer. The aim is to reconcile practice and the real need. I think it's very positive. It's also in the interests of our clients to make it easy for them to understand, understand. For me, it is very positive that this is the way to work together.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U370	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U371	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! After all, today's Question Time also revealed that the minister responsible for user-friendliness is himself. I am thinking of the e-environments that have been developed in his administration. That's why I'm asking if and how you're testing whether the e-PRIA environment is user-friendly. There have been indications that he is not quite there at the moment when this support structure needs to be prepared so thoroughly. Have you worked with the Tax and Customs Board? Lately, their e-environment is being praised. For example, have their specialists tested and tried your environment? How do you do this user-friendliness test?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U372	Thank you. This testing still goes through the customers who use this environment. I have not received any such comments or comments that he is not user-friendly. But if it is not user-friendly, it will certainly be taken into account and changes will be introduced. The PRIA will receive quite a large amount of resources each year for e-developments. Recently, they received over a million additional budgets. So the funds will be allocated all the time and they can make these changes. E-PRIA is also developing a large data base so that farmers can get everything out of the same environment in the future, and a great deal of work is being done to achieve this. I don't have the data to make sure there's a problem. But if it is, then it must certainly be responded to and taken into account. I do not think that these changes are behind the lack of resources.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U373	There are no further questions for the initiator of the draft. Aivar Kokk, Chairman of the Committee on Rural Affairs, is also the rapporteur for this draft. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U374	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Rural Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu discussed the draft law amending the Rural and Agricultural Market Organisation Act initiated by the Government of the Republic at its extraordinary meeting on 17 October 2018. This draft had been invited to be presented by Olavi Petron, Head of the Rural Policy and Analysis Department of the Ministry of Rural Affairs, and by Peegi Kaibald, Head Specialist of the Rural Economy and Competition Policy Office of the same department. There were questions earlier about why more and more people are going to e-PRIA. There is a simple answer to that question. If the application is sent on paper, there are usually up to ten errors. It'll be sent back, you'll have to fix it and send it back to the PRIA again. The e-system is trying to create a situation that if you write something wrong, you just can't go on until you put the right thing in the right box. If you have been able to send an application to the PRIA at one point, this application has also been properly drafted. The aim is not to be dealt with several times. The Commission also took four decisions. It was proposed to put a draft 720 on the plenary agenda by 24 October. Artur Talvik was appointed rapporteur at the time, but unfortunately Artur couldn't be here, so I introduced the bill. It was proposed that the first reading of draft 720 be completed and that 10 working days, i.e. 7 November, be set at 5.15 p.m. for proposals for improvement. All decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U375	Any questions for the waitress? There aren't any. I'm opening negotiations. That's not what you want either. The proposal of the commission, as you have heard, is to conclude the first reading of the draft. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 720 amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 7 November.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U376	Draft law amending the Penal Code initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws (dangerous tendency criminals, foreign criminals) 658. Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, to begin the first reading of the speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U377	Honorable Vice-President of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members! The purpose of this draft law amending the Penal Code and other laws is to prevent repeated crimes against individuals by dangerous criminals, to reduce crime by taking various steps, and also to give victims, victims, more say on how criminals should be treated. Firstly, the scope of life imprisonment is significantly extended. The possibility of applying life imprisonment to persons with a previous relapsed past who have committed a murder or sexual offence shall be provided. We remembered that there was an institute for post-sentence detention in Estonia, according to which it was possible to apprehend a high-risk person in the case of more dangerous crimes even after the sanction rate passed by the court was exhausted. The Supreme Court found this to be unconstitutional in our legal order. The solution that we propose to the legislator, first and foremost, to prevent recurrent pedophiles, is a broader way of putting life in prison. This does not mean that all these people should necessarily be imprisoned until death. Secondly, automatic imprisonment is repeatedly created for persons who commit sexual offences or other serious crimes. Thirdly, the courts are obliged to assess, in the event of conditional early release, their participation or consent to participate in activities that reduce the risk of a new criminal offence. In other words, a person who really has a vicious obsession with, for example, sex crimes must be given consent to be released from prison to engage in activities that reduce the risk of committing a new crime in order to control that tendency. That's what we have right now. If we say the person who committed the crime is less dangerous, we'll release him from prison before the deadline and he'll be under probation. It is likely to be a sensible system in the large sense. But if a person is more at risk, it is estimated that he is more likely to commit crimes, then he will go towards the four winds after release and no follow-up. Our aim is to provide for mandatory post-punitive conduct control for dangerous prone criminals who will not be released from custody before the deadline. In addition, we want to see more strongly actions towards foreign criminals that should lead to a special spatial prevention. In other words, the prosecutor's office is obliged to assess, each time a foreign criminal is involved, whether there are conditions for the application of expulsion as an additional penalty. If these conditions are formally met, the additional penalty should be to send the person to the country of which he or she has been a national. In addition, the possibility of concluding an agreement on exit with an alien suspected of committing a criminal offence in the framework of an agreement procedure involving a refusal of entry shall be established. In the case of serious crimes, this arrangement procedure cannot be carried out. In the case of lighter crimes, it would be figuratively the case that if an alien agrees to an agreement, he must leave this country and is no longer allowed back into the country. In addition, a situation shall be created in which an alien person is able to waive the execution of imprisonment or replacement imprisonment for a second-degree offence if an agreement is concluded with an alien to leave the country involving a refusal of entry. I believe that this is an objective positive measure to combat crime. If these persons are no longer in the Estonian judicial area, they have a refusal of entry, they will also not be able to commit crimes here in our judicial area. The sufferer will be given the opportunity to express his views on the consequences for him and on the possible consequences of the punishment. As regards the possible early release of the perpetrator, an institute will also be set up to allow the victim to express his opinion as to whether the penalty imposed has been sufficient to allow the release of the person concerned from prison to be considered. Aside from this, such an option is envisaged. We now have a situation where a prisoner for life can be released in such a way that he can simply be released from a captive prison. It is now foreseen that this must take place gradually: the prisoner moves from a closed prison to an open prison and, after imprisonment, there should also be a behavioural check. The purpose of this institute is once again to protect potential prisoners for life. We see here a group of persons, lifelong prisoners, some of whom can be released earlier. But above all, we see a circle of people here for whom we want to extend life imprisonment. In other words, we want to expand the possibility of life imprisonment in the Estonian legal order. At the same time, we say that it is possible for the court to consider the matter. If a person is safer according to the mandatory assessments to be carried out, it is also possible to consider his or her earlier release right provided that this can happen in 30 years' time. In addition, we provide for the possibility of applying a ban on alcohol consumption at the end of criminal proceedings due to a lack of public procedural interest. In practice, it is still possible to impose a ban on a person who is not drinking alcohol when criminal proceedings are brought to an end. In addition, there are some changes of a more technical nature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U378	Are there any questions for the Minister as representative of the initiator? Yes, it is. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U379	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. This bill will also change the possible application of community service. The number of hours of community service is reduced by almost 1/4. It has been argued here that this use of community service has not been profitable. Has there been any analysis of this? Have you seen it? After all, it was used by many local authorities and also by many public authorities. So what's gonna change now?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U380	The question is, first of all, that neither the purpose of community service, and above all the social interest, is, of course, in any way financially measurable the collection of wealth for society. In reality, the goal is that the social assumption is that the performance of this kind of work can stimulate people. He should still understand that he is responsible for the consequences of his actions in relation to meaningful activities. Now, if you ask me this, what's more meaningful is that on the basis of evidence, the most effective are undoubtedly therapy and rehabilitation programs. Especially in a situation where we are talking, for example, about an addict, a person who is in the target group of community service hours. In fact, the point is that it is possible to assign these rehabilitation activities to a person as part of a sentence or as an addition. We believe that this will have a result: if a person has been in these therapeutic, rehabilitation and social programmes, he will be better able, above all, to curb his violence or any other evil behaviour that has led him to such a unfortunate situation as punishment. We do not want to replace it completely, but we say that this should be an opportunity. We've found this proportion of 1/4. And we believe that this could help to control to a certain extent the feelings or emotions of these people, which can turn into violence.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U381	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U382	Good manager and waitress! It says here that the large number of foreign criminals harms the security of society. So how many foreign criminals do we have, what's the big number? Or are we talking about those who are in prison or in a detention facility - those citizens of the Russian Federation, Ukraine, Tunisia and Serbia who are going to be expelled by refusing entry for ten years?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U383	The number is that the prisons had gone as of the end of the year, this number has moved slightly in one direction or the other, and I think it has changed by ten people today, but in large part it is the same as 2526 persons, 1631 of whom have Estonian citizenship and 662 have undefined citizenship or are stateless. And, in fact, the issue of refusal of entry in the agreement procedure is in itself also about people of undefined nationality, not just third-country nationals. This also applies to those with a grey passport. Thirdly, there are 233 persons who have foreign nationality. Indeed, the most people of the Russian Federation's nationality are those who are followed by people from the backgrounds of other countries, especially the former Soviet republic. Let us now take the question of the Estonian prison system. In the prison system, the so-called turnover, if you use this term, is quite high. Figuratively speaking, it is not the case that a number of 233 people, when we talk about people who are nationals of third countries, are on average in prison for a lifetime or ten years. This may vary because some people sit in prison for a few weeks due to the shock of being in prison, and some people carry life imprisonment there, but on average the audience still changes within two years. This actually means that there are, in essence, 233 new people who have committed these crimes in the year after next. It must be acknowledged that general resonance is often relatively high among people who have left prison and are re-entering prison. This measure is intended to reduce the reversibility of dangerous criminals. I must admit that, in one way or another, most countries are looking for a solution to curb their crime in precisely this way. They say to third-country nationals who have committed crimes, do not commit these acts in our country.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U384	Thank you very much for the waitress. There are no more questions. The Chair of the Committee on Legal Affairs, Jaanus Kariliid, will present the panel's report.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U385	Manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Minister has already presented the main objectives of the draft. From the Commission's point of view, as a summary of the protocol, I present the four main objectives of this draft. Firstly, the possibility of life imprisonment is created for individuals with a previous relapsed past who have committed a murder or sexual offence. Secondly, it is repeatedly ruled out that the punishment of persons who have committed sexual offences or other serious crimes is not applied on a parole basis. Thirdly, the court is obliged to assess the participation or consent to participate in activities to reduce the risk of committing a new criminal offence in the treatment, therapy or similar programme in the event of conditional early release of the accused person. Fourthly, a compulsory post-punitive conduct check is provided for dangerous prone criminals who will not be released from custody before the deadline. As a result of the debate, procedural decisions were also taken: to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda by 24 October (consensually) and that the first reading be closed (also consensually), that the deadline for amendments be set at 4 p.m. on 7 November (also consensually) and that Jaanus Karilaid be appointed as rapporteur for the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U386	Any questions for the waitress? There aren't any. If you want, we'll open negotiations. That's not what you want. You have heard the commission's proposal: the first reading of draft 658 should be completed. I will set the deadline for the submission of the draft 658 amendments at 16 a.m. on 7 November.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U387	First reading of Bill 680 of the Act amending the Prisoning Act initiated by the Government of the Republic (access to the Internet for inmates). Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice of the Chair, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U388	A respectable representative of the people! This draft regulates two problems of a practical nature. The first problem concerns the case of the European Court of Human Rights. A person named Romeo Kalda, who is in custody, reached a judgment in the European Court of Human Rights, which found that the Estonian state violated the article of the European Convention on Human Rights: the prisoner was denied access to the website of the Riigikogu, the website of the Chancellor of Justice or the website of the Tallinn Information Service of the Council of Europe, which no longer exists, as I understand. This resolution of the human rights court will be implemented by means of an amendment to the Prisoning Act. The Ministry continues to take the view that inmates must not be given universal access to the Internet, but must be given rigid access, precisely to the contour that was dug over. It is therefore proposed that in the future, in addition to the databases of official legislation and the register of judicial decisions, prisoners will be able to consult the website of the Riigikogu and the Chancellor of Justice. The prohibition of access to this part of the website, which allows electronic communication, is maintained, since communication with detainees must take place on a specific basis. The second amendment concerns the issue of the amendment of the Emergency Act last year. The legislator, in cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior, also developed a solution for the resolution and management of an event directly threatening the overall security or imprisonment of the prison. In principle, the amendment to the Prison Act is such that the definitions are eliminated. The definition of an emergency situation shall not be used in cases of general security or immediate threats to the execution of imprisonment in prison. This may seem a very scholastic change, but the principle is that special procedures are foreseen to deal with an emergency. The conviction of the prison service and the ministry is that it is not really appropriate to apply this particular crisis management to the resolution of internal prison crises. In addition to the conceptual change, the principle is that the issue of who is in charge of the resolution of the crisis must be resolved. In practice, the resolution of the crisis is managed either by the director of the prison or by an official appointed according to the procedure or by the Ministry of Justice if the crisis is more extensive. In the Ministry of Justice, this is done by the so-called prison service, if there is a need for crisis management that requires greater coordination. In the case of crisis management, it is important to determine that other persons who are involved, such as police officers, rescue officers, health care providers or persons performing any other function, must be subject to the relevant prison officer or official of the Ministry of Justice in resolution. In addition, the principle of allowing departure is laid down, provided that this procedure does not entail more damage than would result from the presence of detainees and detainees in prison. Thus, in fact, all detainees may be subject to a short-term departure if it is necessary to protect the life and health of prisoners and detainees in prison or if prison buildings need to be used to solve the event. In this context, there may be a very wide-ranging crisis in which it needs to be said that this measure applies to some or all of the detainees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U389	There are questions for the originator. Raivo Põldaru.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U390	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Good minister! Using the Internet as a human right - is human rights somewhere changing in size? And what are these human rights, where is this list taken from? It is interesting to hear that Internet use is actually a human right. There will then be many people in Estonia who do not have this right. They could also protest and maybe have free access. It's really hard on Earth. Perhaps these people will also be able to reach a court settlement so that they should be able to put free Internet at home, buy a computer, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U391	Thank you. Very important and true. On the current issue, this judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, which arose, I can assure you that the position of the Republic of Estonia was such that the rights of the complainant or of the person in custody in question were not violated. Perhaps I expressed myself confusingly, but it was about how to interpret the article of the European Convention on Human Rights. This article did not focus specifically on the Internet as a phenomenon, but it provides for freedom of expression and the right to information. It includes the possibility of expressing its views, but also the right to receive and disseminate information. At the same time, the Convention also provides for the right limits to be imposed in a democratic country. The Republic of Estonia has imposed restrictions on detainees. According to our earlier legal approach, they were also fully in line with this convention. The High Court held that the complainant should have access to the information which is expected to concern the protection of his rights. I don't want to formulate on the move here. I honestly admit that I have not read the complaint or judgment myself. I only rely on an explanatory statement that is relatively scarce. But it is likely that the Chancellor of Justice and the Riigikogu's homepages concern legislation or are somehow related to how the inmates can get acquainted with their legal position in order to stand up for their supposed or actual or imaginary rights. So this question does not concern whether the right to the Internet must be guaranteed. In this case, the issue is that the right to the Internet is prohibited in a prison facility, with the exception of a few very narrow cases relating to the right of people to access the laws and regulations under which their rights are, above all, restricted. The question of whether Internet access could be interpreted as a human right. I think this is a very intelligent and modern interpretation of fundamental rights. We will certainly achieve this in an environment of advanced protection of fundamental rights. Without this right, it is difficult to imagine an advanced society: without access to the Internet, it will not be possible to realise a great many fundamental rights, particularly social rights. So the Republic of Estonia did not support the claim of this person. But the decision has been made and the position of the Republic of Estonia is to bring it into line with the law only by the narrowest outline defined in the court settlement. If we did not make this change now, we would not do so, then in the future this person would have the right to claim damages and compensation from the Republic of Estonia. I am certainly of the opinion that Estonian taxpayers' money should not be used to obtain the benefits of the prison shop, whatever that person would like to buy there.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U392	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U393	Good manager and waitress! I understand that Estonian prisoners will have the opportunity to consult legislation, the Riigikogu via the Internet, and also to look at our sessions here, but they will not be able to access familiarisation sites. Is that right? I ask how many of these 2,500 prisoners would be interested in watching Riigikogu transfers. How many new viewers will you allow us with this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U394	I think that in the case of people at large, if they were to be locked in enclosed spaces, interest in Riigikogu meetings would grow, if the alternative was to do nothing. But in fact, as I said, the general rule remains in force, the inmate is not allowed to use the Internet. In the meantime, he has access to the Riigikogu and the register of judicial decisions, and now he has access to the website of the Riigikogu and the Chancellor of Justice. Access is denied to a part of the website that allows electronic communication. All of this takes place in a customized computer of the prison services, where the supervision of the prison services has been granted access to official documents. And the inside of the prison also provides that this right is not unlimited, i.e. from morning to night. All prisoners must undoubtedly be subjected to the internal order of the prison: to work, to observe the peace of the night, etc. The use of the Internet takes place during the period during which they do not have to fulfil their compulsory duty. What number are we talking about, how much is it needed to guarantee the rights of individuals? And which page might be of greater interest when comparing the legal database, the judicial register, the website of the Riigikogu and the website of the Chancellor of Justice? All people are always looking for themselves in every photo, and it is universal in every culture, whether men or women, young or old. I believe that prisoners are always looking for cases that may affect their rights and freedoms or additional obligations. It is likely that whatever they come from, they will first and foremost examine their case, even more so in the register of judicial decisions. I don't think they're familiar with them in the general interest. Maybe they do, but I think they'd rather not. And the reason why access to such pages is guaranteed by the law in force, to which two pages are now added, is in fact that people have an awareness of their rights and are able to realise them in the way they see fit. It is certainly in our interest to balance this, because mass appeals by detainees are a problem. Let's look at the practice of the Tartu Administrative Court historically. In the case of Tartu Administrative Court, some of the prisoners in Tartu Prison are mass complainers. Some individual cases may also find support in some form, in part or in full, in court, but in general they are more of a time appeal. The legislator has now narrowed the scope for submitting these complaints, and I think it is wise.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U395	Arno Bridge.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U396	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Minister, thank you very much. Recently, it has been heard that some of the prisoners have been subjected to a non-mealing action. Do you think such actions mean that we still need to improve the law or that there are shortcomings in the way prison works? Or is there a reason for a third or fourth thing?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U397	I think, in the big picture, this has been happening from time to time in these years. In the past, when we had camp-type prisons, the rule of play was silently that the guard department actually accepted the prison's subculture. Let's just say that, in its time, the legacy of the Russian era was accepted by some of the "gangical" hierarchys of power that had developed there. Now, of course, there is no place for such things in the prison service. In fact, this means that if prisoners try to engage in any humiliating treatment against a fellow prisoner, then the prison service will certainly not be subject to such a dictatorship of prisoners. Of course, it is the task of the prison service to ensure safety and safety. But they also need to ensure that if a group of prisoners pours food over a fellow prisoner and says that it belongs to some lower social class and cannot communicate with him, then, of course, in the rule of law, the prison service cannot go along with such rules of play. The law provides for appropriate discipline. The law also provides, of course, for what to do if the detainees wish to refuse food in some sort of action for a period of time. Undoubtedly, in a situation where life is not at risk, no forced feeding will be applied, and if necessary, discipline measures will be applied. I think it would be wrong for Estonian prisons to take the direction that these subculture-induced powers determine who actually controls the inside walls of the prison. If it were to be developed further, it could set a precedent that we certainly do not want. Our goal is that the laws of the Republic of Estonia and the power held by the officials of the Republic of Estonia pay in prisons.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U398	Peter Ernits, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U399	Good manager and waitress! Romeo Kalda won the Republic of Estonia on 19 January 2016, two years ago. It's urgent now. I'm asking why you've been holding it. Why have prisoners not been able to watch our transfers here in the Riigikogu and other bases related to legislative activities for two years?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U400	I certainly do not support legislation as a matter of urgency. Rather, designing legal relationships could be a little calmer, a little more mature, not hasty. I think that the central problem of the Republic of Estonia is not the lack of legislation or the constant amendment of legal relations. In the case of Kalda, a decision was taken and the relevant authorities, the public authorities have prepared a solution that has now reached the legislator's table. I think we have moved here according to the logic that there should be no additional obligations on the country. Now that the inmates have not been able to access this website during this time. The decisions of the Human Rights Court are not directly applicable in itself. The decision of the Human Rights Court merely reveals that one country is violating the Convention on Human Rights, whether in practice or through its legal order. The mechanism for enforcing this decision does not actually repeal any law. However, Member States shall rely in their national law on the pace and method they consider to be good and appropriate. In fact, we also have another topic on the table where I have not shown any interest in haste, but I would like to look at it, consider it and find solutions. This is a question of the electoral rights of detainees. I think it is the same as with the question of Kalda: the narrower the contour we can solve this issue, the smarter it is. And we should rather appreciate the dangers that may arise if we do nothing.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U401	Raivo Põldaru.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U402	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! Can it be concluded from this legislative amendment that the detention order in Estonian prisons is stricter than in other parts of Europe? Is there any way to make comparisons here, do you have any idea? And maybe we could go back to the way we used to. I heard that these legislative changes could not be passed, because the judgments do not apply to us.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U403	No, I mean, the judgments still affect us. As I said, in the event of widespread non-compliance with the judgment, simply a person whose rights have been found to be violated by a court may receive money from our country. Our alternative is that we do nothing and that citizen gets the money. If we objectively appreciate the fact that the inmates now see the Chancellor of Justice's website, then I honestly do not have any emotion to say. I am completely value-neutral as to whether they see and read reports from the Chancellor of Justice in addition to the judgments and the State Gazette. That was the point. I say the state can actually make its own decisions. We are independent: we make our own laws and change them when the legislator sees fit. As I said, all the risk arising from this is simply that, although the European Court of Human Rights cannot make us do anything directly, it can impose financial compensation. And with this financial compensation, it is indeed the case that the state has to pay it off.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U404	Thank you very much to the Minister. There are no more questions. The presentation of the commission is made by Vilja Toomas, member of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U405	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed this draft at its meeting on Monday 15 October. In addition to the members of the Commission, Mr Markus Kärner, Adviser to the Department of Penal Law and Procedure at the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Justice, took part in the meeting. Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu introduced this draft as he did here in the big hall. Members of the Commission also had some questions. Less questions were raised by the Internet theme point. The second part, concerning the arrangements for resolving events in prison and who is responsible, raised further questions. For example, the Hatter said that it is not quite clear who the decision-maker is and what the situation is. Markus Kärner explained that the need to change this wording is actually due to the fact that in 2017 the Emergency Act came into force, which lays down very specific rules on how to behave in an emergency, but other rules apply in prison. However, any case that threatens the overall security of the prison and the execution of imprisonment is decided by the prison itself or by the Ministry of Justice, as the Minister said. Mati Raidma asked if the Emergency Act would not apply to detainees, for example, if mass escape or mass illness occurred. Markus Kärner confirmed that the emergency law will still be implemented when we can define that it is an emergency. In all other cases, the conduct shall be in accordance with the procedures laid down in the prison. Vilja Toomas pointed out that the title of the law refers to the right to use the Internet, but in fact the draft law amends the same concept of emergency. He asked why only one point was referred to in the title of the draft. When we look at the explanatory memorandum, we see that the purpose of the law there too focuses primarily on the right to use the Internet. The Minister of Justice agreed with Vilja Toomas that it could be changed, but both points deal with the detention law. So I think we need to review this technical problem, not so much the substance, at the committee meeting. Now for the Commission's procedural decisions: it was proposed to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 24 October 2018 and to close the first reading, it was proposed that, when the first reading is closed, the deadline for amendments be set at 4 p.m. on 7 November 2018 and that Vilja Toomas be appointed rapporteur for the Commission. All four proposals to the Riigikogu plenary were made in consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U406	Any questions for the waitress? There aren't any. Thanks to the waitress! I will open negotiations if the representatives of the political groups wish. You don't want to see that. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 680. I shall set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft at 16 a.m. on 7 November.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U407	And today's latest item: First reading of Bill 712 of the Commercial Code initiated by the Government of the Republic, the Law on Non-profit Associations and the Amending Act on State Fees (Payment Accounts). Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu, please waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U408	A respectable representative of the people! This bill has a practical purpose. Namely, to solve the problem raised in practice, which hinders people abroad from investing in Estonian private limited companies. What's the status? Under current law, the ordinary procedure requires the opening of an account in the name of an Estonian credit institution. Due to the regrettable circumstances, the megashacking of Danske Bank has resulted in a practice where Estonian credit institutions make very strict demands on non-residents when opening bank accounts. This is reflected in the legitimate duty of due diligence and also in the fear of breaching the rules on money laundering supervision. I've heard strange precedents in public myself. For example, Sweden's Swedish office of Swedbank, i.e. a long-term client of the parent office, a company operating in Sweden, could not open an account here at Swedbank's subsidiary, because the handlers were unknown when you quote Luts. This has certainly created real problems: businesses or potential investors cannot invest here. Their initiative to operate in Estonia is entangled because they cannot set up a company because they cannot open a bank account. The opening of a bank account in Estonia in itself is not intrinsically related to the establishment of a company; it is simply a status or assumption provided for in the law in force. And after analysis, in order to solve this practical problem, which was highlighted above all by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and business organisations, the government proposes a solution. Of course, all the minimum conditions for anti-money laundering and proper administration must be maintained. However, it is foreseen that if someone from outside, an alien, wishes to establish a company in Estonia, he or she may use a payment account opened on behalf of the company by a credit institution or paying agency or a branch thereof established in another Contracting State of the European Economic Area. In other words, when it comes to how the share capital can be paid up, it can be paid up using an account of a credit institution located in another Member State of the European Economic Area. The prerequisite for this is that money laundering rules are actually in place across Europe. If a person is, figuratively speaking, a German citizen, he or she has a bank account in Germany. Some others have bank accounts in Sweden or France. Since he's a resident in another country, the bank there has already checked these things, examined them. The French bank will undoubtedly have a much better overview of its long-term customers. In that case, this barrier has been resolved, more rigid action, which has simply come into the practice of banks, as I said, by complying with the law in force. Furthermore, I hope that, since there are really problems with the implementation of this law, Parliament will be able to discuss it, listen to stakeholders and make its fair decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U409	The question is asked by Küllik's Hatter. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U410	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! I also touched on this issue in the Commission for a moment. In fact, the Financial Supervision Authority has provided worrying notes in its coordination table. I think it's also justified because we have such a big case in the back of our head right now. Could you just explain what the fears of the Financial Supervision Authority are? I understand from your answer that you were able to mitigate their fears. What was the methodology for mitigating your fears?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U411	Thank you. In essence, the Financial Supervision Authority said that this proposal, which has reached the legislator for discussion in the form of this draft, is the correct solution from its concept. However, the Financial Supervision Authority's assessment is that the draft will go a little too far if payment accounts located in the paying agencies are allowed to prove that the contributions of the share capital are made. The answer is that there is both a desire to use the payment service and support for the establishment of companies and the raising of capital. It is mainly seen that there is a need for increased freedom of choice, which would be offered by the involvement of paying agencies to founders and companies. There shall be a procedure whereby it is prohibited to dispose of a contribution to a payment account before the company is entered in the commercial register. The explanatory memorandum has also been supplemented by an explanation that the paying agencies do not involve deposits. Eesti Pank has also admitted that, in principle, contributions could be made through a paying agency. So the real question is whether to do them not only to the credit institution but also via the paying agency, as I said. The government took the view that this could be done. But, as I said in the Commission, this is the place of choice. It is certainly appropriate to hear the views of the Financial Supervision Authority, the Anti-Money Laundering Bureau, as well as representatives of credit institutions and business organisations in the Committee on Legal Affairs. The government is in a position to take this step. I understand, of course, the 'current urge' to be extremely modest in money laundering cases. But I think the real solution is that the most important thing is to find out what happened at Danske Bank, to get answers to these things. This does not mean that we should take such prominence that foreigners operating in private companies who have bank accounts in other Member States of the European Union are subject to automatic money laundering. These things are blocked by other means.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U412	Hatter, the second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U413	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! Of course, when ready, new opportunities should be created. But this means that more effective control methods should also be considered. Has the Ministry of Justice thought that if this change comes into force, how to be more effective, proactive and perhaps even more corrective to the sector?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U414	Thank you. I'll explain the logic now. We assume that at the moment, if the bank account is opened in an Estonian credit institution and money laundering takes place here, the Estonian authorities will be responsible for supervision and control according to their respective competences. Our proposal is that these companies can be established in Estonia by other means. If a credit institution in another European country has trusted you in carrying out its due diligence and you have been able to open an account in another European country where there is some kind of money laundering, this is a problem for that other Member State of the European Union. There's no way we can interfere. In reality, this requirement to open a bank account in the setting up of companies is not an end in itself. The question is that we should be able to identify that the initial capital that the law requires has been transferred to an account at all. So the requirement to have a bank account in the creation of a legal fiction such as a legal entity arises only from that practical need. I do not think that the prevention of money laundering, taken as such, is in any way the focus of the business code. The Commercial Code regulates the formation of companies. Money laundering procedures are being dealt with elsewhere, and I do not think that they are in themselves at the heart of this debate. And does anyone control it in reality, winds through the business register in the view that if there is no other turnover, what is the state of the bank accounts of companies established in Estonia, whether or not the initial money is still there? The answer to this question is no. The legal order does not provide for such ongoing action.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U415	Thank you very much for the waitress. Urve Tiidus, Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, will make a presentation of the commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U416	Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the Commercial Code, the Non-profit Associations Act and the State Fees Act 712 was discussed in the Legal Affairs Committee on 15 October. At the discussion, the Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu and Counsellor of the Department of Private Law of the Legal Policy Department of the Ministry of Justice Kärt Karus were also present. Just as today in this Chamber, the Minister of Justice presented the content and purpose of the draft to the Commission. He explained that the proposed amendments would encourage the investment of persons abroad in Estonian companies. Non-residents face practical difficulties in properly opening a bank account on behalf of the company in Estonian banks in order to transfer a financial contribution to their share capital. According to this draft the establishment of a private limited-liability company may also use any account established in a Contracting State of the European Economic Area (EEA) with a credit or payment institution. In addition, the draft provides for exemption from state fees for the registration and modification of the company's e-mail address in the commercial register. Its current price is EUR 18, then zero. Now I will also make a brief reflection of the ensuing debate in the Commission. For example, Külliki Hatter asked whether this draft could conflict with the principle of reversed burden of proof. The answer was that there was no such contradiction. The Commission's attention was also drawn to the fact that the reversed burden of proof could only be implemented in the future if money laundering is suspected. The draft does not address this issue. It was also expressed that it was unreasonable to impose a reversed burden of proof on private individuals. They wanted to know why the draft did not take into account the comments made by the Financial Supervision Authority, which Külliki Kübarsepp asked the Minister to clarify here. The Financial Supervision Authority considers that this proposal is the right solution from its concept, but they believe that the draft will go too far if, alongside bank accounts, the use of payment accounts located in paying agencies is allowed to prove that the contributions of the share capital are made. The Financial Supervision Authority considers that the significant difference between the paying agency and the credit institution is due to prudential requirements, which have already been explained in advance. Advisor to the Ministry of Justice, Kärt Karus, explained that a bank account was required when the company was set up in order to transfer a share capital contribution. Later on, the business register does not monitor the movement of funds in the firm's account, nor does the bill change this principle. The advisor's opinion was also that the Financial Inspectorate and the Financial Intelligence Unit must have understood this differently. There was also the question of how this bill will still affect our business. The Minister explained that banks have an obligation to comply with ever more stringent due diligence requirements and, in a changed situation, it is more difficult for non-residents to open a bank account in Estonia. This draft provides for the possibility of using the account of a credit or payment institution established in any of the Contracting States of the European Economic Area when a private limited liability company is established. So my conclusion is that something is going to get easier again. It was also expressed the opinion that the Financial Supervision Authority and the Financial Intelligence Unit are certainly familiar with the practice. Well, the Hatter was the one who said it. He will be cautious if these entities do not quite agree with the draft. He also asked who would exercise control over the tasks arising from the draft. The Minister explained that the registration of the company would continue to be checked by the assistant judge and that the accuracy of the transactions would be verified by a bank with first due diligence. Three procedural decisions were also taken: a proposal to place the draft on the plenary agenda by 24 October, a proposal to close the first reading and a deadline of 7 November at 16 a.m. for amendments. There were 9 members of the Commission in favour and 1 abstention. Finally, Urve Tiidus was appointed as a waitress. The 10 members of the Commission were consensual here. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-24_U417	Any questions for the waitress? There aren't any. Is there a wish to open negotiations? There isn't one either. The commission's proposal, as you have just heard, is to finish the first reading of draft 712. I shall set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft at 16 a.m. on 7 November. Ladies and gentlemen, today's session, which at times was quite emotional, certainly offered a treat to those who watched it online. I guess we're used to these situations, and that's how it's supposed to be. I'll see you tomorrow at 10:00. Closure of the sitting at 19.55 p.m.
