ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. We will begin the Monday session of the 8th plenary session. Who wants to hand over drafts or inquiries? Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U2	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! I have a desire to hand over, and not only do I have a wish, but I will also hand over the draft decision initiated by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which seeks to change the composition of the Estonian delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Union for the Mediterranean. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U3	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U4	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of seven members of the Conservative People's Party Group, I am going to refer an inquiry to Mr Jüri Ratas, Prime Minister. Its title is 'Restore the Right of the People's Initiative'. As we know 84 years ago today, a coup took place, resulting in the loss of the right and opportunity for the Estonian people to exercise the highest constitutional law, i.e. to initiate the adoption of new laws or to amend existing ones. According to both the 1920s and the 1933s constitution, this possibility existed. In 1934, the coup d'état lost the possibility of democratic rule and, with it, the possibility of direct democracy and popular initiative. Nor does the Constitution of 1992 provide for the possibility of a public initiative. In relation to all of this, we have four questions. Firstly, why is there nothing in the 2016 government action programme that concerns direct democracy and the greater opportunity to involve the people in the process of government governance? Do you see an opportunity to restore the historic order in the near future, perhaps to provide for the possibility of a popular initiative in the Constitution? Thirdly, why has the current regime failed so badly? All initiatives taken by the public initiative have shrunk into committees and have not even reached a large hall. Fourthly, we ask the Prime Minister whether it is time to renew the procedure for referendums and to organise the President's direct elections by amending the constitution, as the Centre Party has promised for years. As we know, the Centre Party is currently the governing party of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U5	I have adopted two drafts from members of the Riigikogu, but now the draft of the Government of the Republic is handed over by Heili Tõnisson. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U6	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic initiates the draft Act amending the Estonian Health Insurance Fund Act and the Health Insurance Act. In the Riigikogu, the Minister of Health and Labour Jevgeni Ossinovski represents the Government of the Republic when dealing with the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U7	I have adopted two drafts to be processed under the Home and Rules of Procedure Act and one inquiry. If it meets the requirements of the Home and Working Procedures Act, it will also be processed. Incoming check, please! 78 members of the Riigikogu are present. Adoption of the agenda. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the agenda for the 8th working week of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. 76 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of approving the agenda, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U8	The first item on the agenda is an inquiry by Krista Aru, Külliki Kübarsepp, Andres Ammas, Jüri Adams, Monika Haukanõm, Artur Talvik and Ain Lutsepp. On behalf of the heirs, Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U9	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable representatives of the people! Minister, thank you very much. The Free Party Group submitted an inquiry to Minister Jaak Aab regarding the use of the funds due to be privatized. In January, when an inquiry was made, our questions were rather narrow. There were five questions, and we focused mainly on one problem. In fact, this draft was coordinated with one text in which the Estonian Owners' Confederation and the Estonian Heritage Society proposed that the money from the privatisation could also be used to clean up the buildings from the returned monuments and to create special conditions for them and to evaluate the buildings. As we know, as a result of the occupation, our farm architecture and many other monuments, the owners of which now lacked the opportunity to repair them with their own money, were also affected. Everything was nice. The Central Association of Owners and the Heritage Society received coordination and were very pleased with their proposal from the Ministry of Finance. Then something changed. Our question is, how then: people have proposed, the text goes to coordination, the inclusion takes place, but then there will be a text that no longer contains building monuments, but only sacral buildings, churches. However, since our inquiry had already been handed over, the matter has been dealt with seriously by the Chancellor of Justice. And the Chancellor of Justice has raised far greater questions throughout the debate on this whole issue, namely whether the proceeds of privatisation can be used in the first place to compensate for the loss of occupation in circumstances where the government itself will decide what can be done with this money. Are we not, however, dealing with a very clear issue that falls within the competence of the Riigikogu? So I would ask the Minister to answer first of all the five questions that have been asked in his inquiry, but we will certainly deal with a wider range of supplementary questions. Hopefully, we'll figure out the whole thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U10	Jaak Aab, Minister of Public Administration, will answer the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U11	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I will answer five specific questions put by the Free Party Group, but as requested by the representative of the heirs, I can also shed some light on the broader background. The first question: 'Why did the government consider it necessary to exclude building monuments returned in the course of the ownership reform from its regulation at the last minute, even though it had previously been announced that the EOK and Estonian Heritage Society's proposal had been taken into account? " Yes, it was a bill that suggested that these purposes should be improved and that there was also a discussion of building monuments. Where did this come from? The decision of the Government of the Republic has set up a property reform commission, led by the Minister of State Administration, and includes the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Culture and representatives of various organisations, including the Estonian Owners' Confederation and the Heritage Protection Society. However, this issue had only been dealt with very briefly in the Commission. There are, for example, broader analyses of the impact of allowing building monuments to apply for money from the property reform reserve. So we decided it all needed to be worked out. The ownership reform committee will be meeting in the near future, and we will certainly be addressing this issue. If this is feasible and if the legitimate persons who could apply for this money could solve their problems with the property reform reserve fund, then we will definitely come back to the issue. This coordination took a relatively short period of time, and officials initially formulated the draft as such, but when discussing its effects, it was considered that a more detailed analysis was needed. That's why those monuments were left out. The second question: "What were the substantive justifications and analyses of the government's change to the arrangements for allocating and using funds from the property reform reserve fund that excluded monuments, including farms, placed under public protection and replaced it by a wording that only mentioned churches, i.e. 'to grant support to the churches in order to remedy the injustice of property rights in the course of war and occupation'? At the time, there was a possible agreement with the churches, and no one has secreted it, either, to put an end to the property disputes between the state and the churches. These negotiations had been held many times, as you yourself know, that this dispute was already very long and had reached some possible agreement. The government considered that this problem could be resolved within the framework of this agreement. And since there was a clear desire from the churches, there were negotiations to resolve this issue, it was only limited to the churches. There was a question of impact analyses. We did not have time to carry out impact analyses that would have affected these building monuments. That's why they stayed out and decided to solve one problem at a time. But in general, the subject is up. The Minister of Culture and the Ministry of Culture have also indicated that we could carry out this analysis. They are willing to help in obtaining input on whether property reform money can support these monuments. The third question: 'Today, the state receives money from privatisation only from the privatisation of land in the framework of the land reform. Why does the Ministry of Finance disregard the obligation to preserve cultural heritage, denying the possibility of channelling the money from the privatisation of the land back to rural areas for the preservation of monumental sites, even though most of Estonia's farms were devastated and destroyed in the Soviet occupation years? " When I answered earlier questions, I explained that I needed a more in-depth analysis of the desire or demand for the restoration of such monuments and the resources. We are talking about the property reform reserve fund, where money is still coming from the privatisation of the land. For example, 9 million were received in 2015, 8.4% in 2016 and 7,6 million in 2017. It is expected to reach 6 million in 2018, 4 million in 2019 and this amount will fall to around 2.6 million in 2028. And the process will, of course, continue after that. It is essential to consider the relevant purposes. The Ministry of Finance has a proposal to review the list of purposes contained in this regulation. There are now 20 purposes. Are they all topical, or should this list be limited to a slightly narrower and more topical purpose? Such a proposal has been made and these purposes are regulated by the law on the use of funds actually received from privatisation. This legislative amendment is also being prepared for another subject, but we certainly want to define these objectives. Now, the fourth question: 'How did Archbishop Viilma's letter 20.12.2017 and the Archbishop's meeting with Minister Aab affect the wording of the draft, because the wording of paragraph 20 that the money from the property reform can be used to grant'support to the churches for the purpose of remedying the injustice of property rights in the course of war and occupation' has not been published until December 22, according to the document register? " Archbishop Urmas Viilma received a letter after the amendment of the regulation had been made. There was a request that the churches describe in more detail, in an official letter, the purposes for which they wanted to spend this money. It responded to the agreement that had been reached with them. And that's exactly what the churches did in their letters. It has been asked whether the Archbishop's letter affected the wording of the bill. No, it didn't. This paragraph was included in the draft on 14 December with this wording. As I said, it was a desire to limit this regulation specifically to the problem of churches. That is why the other uses for which the farm and other monuments have been asked were discarded. I met Urmas Viilma precisely for this purpose. Previously, I did not participate in the negotiation process with the churches, but since the Property Reform Reserve Fund is the responsibility of the Minister of Public Administration, I wanted to know why the Church wanted to use the money. That's what we were talking about, we didn't discuss the specific wording. The wording of the amended draft actually existed earlier. Question 5: "What are the specific plans of the government to support the restoration of building monuments? ' As I said, the Property Reform Committee will certainly be discussing this issue. The State Property Department of the Ministry of Finance should probably, together with the Ministry of Culture, carry out an analysis of the number of such sites, the state of which they are and the applications submitted. In principle, you still have to think about whether to leave as wide a circle as possible to apply or whether to narrow it down in any way. That is something we have not yet decided in detail; let us try to make this clear. But as I said, the proposals are made by the Estonian Owners' Confederation and the Estonian Society for Heritage Protection are also represented on the committee. They can clarify their proposals. Initially, there is a very general proposal, nothing very specific. If we look at this purpose, it only contains monuments that are protected by the state, but the content has not been explained what is behind it. Let me also talk about a more general subject, the opinion of the Chancellor of Justice. Paragraph 20 of the regulation states that "The arrangements for allocating and using funds from the reserve fund for the reform of property are the name of that regulation' and the Chancellor of Justice considers that this basis is a combination of different laws. The Act on the basis of the property reform of the Republic of Estonia states that the violation of property rights by this definition can be remedied in the course of the property reform, but the Chancellor of Justice considers that it must be recorded in the Special Act, i.e. the Act on the Use of Money from Privatisation. And if the regulation in question is intended to make any provision for this fund, it should comply with its law. There is time to respond to this proposal until the end of this week. I'm sure we'll answer. I have spoken to the Chancellor of Justice about this matter and also exchanged letters informally. So we are looking for a solution, and I believe we will find the right legal solution to make everything clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U12	Questions for the Minister. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, Why didn't you come up with a proposal to amend the law on the use of funds from privatisation? This decision could have been made by the Riigikogu and then the Chancellor of Justice would not have this complaint. Secondly, it is still a question of why you are actually blurring our understanding of legal continuity by introducing the damage to the occupation. It's like we're supposed to compensate for the occupation damage ourselves. The preservation of sacral structures, this formulation, is also a compromise within the text of a question of understanding, it would have been absolutely waterproof.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U14	Thank you for your question. I'll be honest with you, which is why I talked to Urmas Viilmaa. After all, the issue is, on the one hand, the agreement whereby the church gives up property and property disputes. We can call these objects. We know, as well as the explanatory memorandum says, that no one can put the right price tag on the Niguliste building and the assets of Niguliste, and there is a desire for them to remain in the country and the people, and then to be well-maintained and maintained. And there are other assets that the church has been arguing about with the state. As regards whether it is necessary to amend the law, as the Chancellor of Justice has pointed out, this legal analysis is currently taking place. By the end of the week, we will respond and decide whether there will be a proposal to amend this law or whether there will be another legal solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U15	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U16	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I'm sitting here listening to you and wondering why you're handing out the property reform reserve fund. The rules governing the use of this fund's money clearly state that it is to compensate for the results of the last ownership reform, but you will pay for the damage caused during the occupation. First of all, you should deal with those who lost their home during the restored Republic of Estonia, but you will pay for the damage caused during the war. That is not our task. Ask for the money from Russia! And start dealing with your own people who lost their homes, these people are 70,000 to 100,000!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U17	Thank you for your question. This issue is also topical and, as the questioner knows as a member of this committee, it has been very much debated. The government has decided to carry out an analysis of the legal basis involved. This then applies to people who could not privatise their dwelling. We don't want to use the term'sundents', we're talking about people who missed the opportunity to privatize their housing when most people could do it. This analysis is working. Now, as far as the property reform reserve fund is concerned, with which we, as it sounds here, compensate for the occupation losses, when we read the law on the basis of the property reform, the whole ownership reform was carried out to remedy the injustices that came about during the war and occupation in general. The property was returned to the owners, and church buildings have been returned to the congregations in most cases. In the case of farms, it has been pointed out that these historical negative processes have caused a great deal of damage and that the sacral buildings are the same. If you take a broader view of legal law and not too much to pursue, you have to admit that congregations have also had to make a great deal of contributions. They once lost property that was in good condition, and they've recovered property that's in bad condition. I'm sure you'll remember that in Soviet times, there were ETVL warehouses in the churches, and I don't know what else. I know specifically such an example. The sacral buildings were disintegrated. Congregations have had to make a great deal of personal contributions since they regained independence. The help of the state has not been very great, although we now have a program of shrines and so on. I still say that there is such an agreement, and the government is trying to enforce the agreements. Churches have agreed that we will put an end to the property disputes that are still in court and can still be brought to it. And the basis for this order has been specified. The last wording is precisely that the property reform reserve fund can meet the requirements that may arise. Point 13 indicates the other costs of the ownership reform.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U18	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U19	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, In your answers, you mentioned that all this topic concerning building monuments was too general and unnegotiated, and that was why it had to be deleted. How do you justify the fact that your own signature will be uploaded to the information system on 12 December with the same regulation as the point where the monuments of the building are well inside. Today you say that on December 14, it was already uploaded in a different wording? What happened on December 13, and how did this great insight come about in one day?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U20	Thank you for your question. As I said, such a proposal came up on the coordination round and it was turned on perhaps too hasty and without a thorough analysis. I, too, asked the officials if we should be more specific about this. As the document did not arrive at the government, it was possible to change it; it had not yet been in the debate at the government meeting. However, there was, of course, another process. There is no point in denying that there was a certain agreement with the churches. Currently, the funds were allocated to the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Finance, which should in turn grant them to these churches on the basis of a contract. The churches have also confirmed in their letters that they are abandoning the disputes and claims that arose or are still emerging in the course of the ownership reform. This is the content of this agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U21	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U22	Thank you, Honourable Chairman. Honorable Minister! Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise, speaking in national broadcasting on Thursday, described the government's decision to change the procedure for allocating money to churches in such a way that it is an attempt to secure the transfer of this money to churches before the Supreme Court's decision enters into force. Understandably, the Chancellor of Justice doesn't think it's right. The Chancellor of Justice also asked ministers not to sign the contracts for the provision of money before the Supreme Court's decision. I am sure you are well aware of this, and that is why I would like to ask you: will you listen to the Chancellor of Justice? How do you behave?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U23	Thank you for your question. As I said, the Chancellor of Justice's proposal must be answered by the government. This proposal is addressed to the Minister for Public Administration, who is responsible for the entire ownership reform policy. That's what this minister does. But I am not the smart one alone, of course, the State Chancellery and the Ministry of Justice are also involved in the drafting of the response. Like I said, by the end of this week, we'll prepare an answer. And it sets out our proposals for what a solution could be. I have also said that if we do not reach an agreement with the Chancellor of Justice, it is up to him to decide whether he will accept our answer or still think that the solution we have proposed will not satisfy him and he will go to the Supreme Court. But we don't sign any contracts for the time being, we need to get these facts straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U24	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U25	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I was prompted by a parallel with the subject we are discussing today. This concerns that the draft will first be sent to the coordination process, the coordination process will be carried out, but then the draft will be substantially amended. The same was true when the reorganisation of special care institutions was coordinated: after coordination, the so-called 300 people's claim came in, which was not changed. This is such a very bad practice, in which case there is no point in coordinating. I hope it doesn't become a habit or a practice. However, the Chancellor of Justice indeed says that this action is contrary to the Constitution and that no law allows such a regime to be changed. What legislation or paragraph did you rely on when you considered that such a change is justified at the moment?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U26	Thank you for your question. This wording is contained in the Property Reform Foundation Act, which is the general basis for the reform. The Chancellor of Justice refers to the fact that it should have been stated in more detail in a sub-law to that effect, i.e. the Act on the use of funds from privatisation. It therefore considers that point 20 in such a wording does not comply with the Constitution, as it does not have a sufficiently specific legal basis arising from a special law. And this statement must be answered. Why is this happening to these billings? I described to you the process of how building monuments came into play. This was one proposal that was also put forward in the Commission, and officials wanted to respond to this proposal on the coordination round and put it in. I, too, look at myself in the mirror as well. And when I had appreciated it, I proposed to delete it, analyse the impact more accurately and then come back to the subject. And that's what we do.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U27	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U28	Thank you. Mr. Minister! Indeed, the government is currently preparing a legal analysis and a register to see how many forced tenants we have. They're discussing how to compensate them for everything. But the forced tenants have had a serious fear that if you complete and expand this regulation all the time and distribute this money to churches and monasteries, and so on, they will eventually lose this money. In fact, you are changing the sense and logic of using the funds of the Reserve Fund for Property Reform.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U29	Thank you for your question. I have already mentioned a broader idea and the foundations of ownership reform, it is in the law. As far as this money is concerned, yes, I will also say that there is not much of it in this fund, and there will not be much of it in the future. But we have been serious about this and we have now come to the next steps. First, a legal analysis is carried out of what possible damage has been caused, and then it is necessary to assess what the compensation mechanism is and how much money will be spent on it. I have no intention of supplementing this list in the near future. Perhaps, on the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice, this list must be shortened. These are the purposes that the Ministry of Finance has actually wanted to limit. This list includes, for example, the development of entrepreneurship, where some sums have gone to the right place, but the property reform reserve fund has also been injected into Estonian Air, for example. You can't really approve of things like that.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U30	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U31	Thank you. Good minister! There was talk about Estonian Air and that the property reform reserve fund has been used when the Riigikogu has made a decision. In this case, the government completely missed the Riigikogu and thus marginalized the Riigikogu again. Estonian Air's decision was made in the Riigikogu. Why are you going by the Riigikogu now and tricking it like that? And the second question: will you still make a decision before the Supreme Court comes up with its ruling?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U32	Thank you for your question. I don't know what to say. You said I was tricking. Well, I haven't figured out these solutions myself. There are certain purposes, and in this particular case they are churches. Lawyers from different ministries and the State Chancellery have looked at the solution and said: okay. The Chancellor of Justice is now saying that it is not right that it should complement the law if money is to be allocated for the purpose that is currently in point 20. The answer to the legal analysis will come within this week and the next steps will accordingly be taken. It is quite possible that the solution will reach the Riigikogu as a legislative amendment. It is difficult for me to predict whether the Chancellor of Justice will go to the Supreme Court on the basis of the solutions offered by the Government or not.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U33	The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. Thank you, Minister of State Administration Jaak Aab! I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of Krista Aru's heirs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U34	Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, Good people's representatives! The Free Party made a specific and clear, rather short inquiry. Following an inquiry, it became apparent that the problem is much bigger. At this point, I would like to thank the Chancellor of Justice very much, who has made a perfectly clear reference to the fact that our entire rule of law is concerned. The use of the reserve fund for ownership reform has been clearly identified and is perfectly legitimate. If the government introduces in its regulation a very broad concept of 'compensation for occupational damage', there is a risk that compensation for occupation damage will be extended, after all, cannot be limited to churches alone; it can not be limited to building monuments alone. Many and perhaps much more demands may arise justified. We can distance ourselves from the original idea that this is a return or compensation for unlawfully deprived property. So this is a wide range of topics. We certainly thank the Chancellor of Justice, who has rightly pointed out the problem, also asking the question that is ultimately the case. Is this a fully informed nihilism? Has the rule of law been ignored and where are we going with this approach? This is also not a question of the financial allocation made to Estonian Air, as this was decided by the Riigikogu at the time. In the interests of further development, it would certainly be very correct to bring this whole issue back to the Riigikogu and to properly review the use of all the money from its privatisation. This is not a small amount, I recall, it is 17 million. The second topic that actually started our inquiry. I wouldn't be so concerned with leaving the monuments out here. It is a matter of national importance whether, for example, we care about our farm architecture, whether as a state we are able to draw up a programme that is trans-ministerial and would also value, as cultural monuments, a farm architecture that is very clearly representative of Estonian culture, which, unfortunately, is in many ways at risk of disappearance and destruction. Looking around this whole regulation, it is very embarrassing and sad to say one thing. Interested parties will be involved and a text will be coordinated. And the next day, it hits the parties, like legal clarity, and there's an understanding that this text isn't gonna work. Listen, I'm sorry, this is not the first time that we have to say that the texts will be amended in the course of the procedure at the last moment and without talking to the coordinators and even without even informing them. It does not show the regularity of the Minister, it does not show the regularity of the government, it shows precisely that things are not being done correctly. If we want to act and act as a rule of law, everything that concerns the functioning of the country and our people must be done with extreme regularity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U35	The members of the Riigikogu have no further wish to negotiate. Does the Minister have any? It doesn't look like it. I will close this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U36	The next question is submitted by Külliki Kübarsepp, Andres Ammas, Jüri Adams, Monika Haukanõm, Artur Talvik, Krista Aru and Andres Herkel. Arthur Talvik, on behalf of the heirs, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U37	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Good minister! Last week, a truly emotional dispute exploded at a cellulose plant called Est-For, or a mill of billions, or a wood refinery, this factory has received several good names over its location. We all saw with our own eyes a seriously fighting session of the Tartu Council, where emotions were more than a rational talk for peacefully good solutions. But everyone was worried about the smell that might come to Tartu, worried about the pasteurisation of the Emajõgi River, etc. But, in fact, the bigger picture has been lost in its shadow, the fact that behind the conflict at this Est-For factory is, in fact, a much more serious thing. This is a fight for our forest resources, which are held by our large-scale industrialists. The conflict of interest caused by certain forces of forest workers has already reached the Ministry of the Environment and RMK. Let me give you a good example. On 31 January, "The Spectator" announced that the State Forest Management Centre or RMK, which is a state profit institution operating in the area of government of the Ministry of the Environment, and the developer of the pulp mill Est-For Invest has jointly prepared a protocol of intent for signing, which guarantees the factory halfway, I emphasise! get all of RMK's paper wood over 15 years, with the price of the wood not specified. The programme revealed the same conflict of interest that was hidden in the Ministry and RMK. Mati Polli, chief investor at the new factory, reminds me that he acted as Chairman of the Supervisory Board of RMK before preparing a business for his best friend Margus Kohava and his son Aadu Poll as an official at the former workplace. Namely, Est-For Invest was created three months before Mati Poll left the office of Chairman of the Supervisory Board of RMK. These are very bad signs of how the Estonian forest is handled and also very bad signs of what is happening in the Ministry of the Environment and RMK under its control. And if I can expand the subject a little, going back to last year, when changes were made to the forest law, I will also recall the lowering of the felling age of the trees from 80 to 60 years. I recall that with this step alone, the industrialists gained three million cubic metres of spruce for ten years of resource war. In view of all these circumstances, we have submitted an inquiry to the Minister for the Environment. We have six questions here and I would ask the Minister for answers to these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U38	Minister for the Environment Siim Kiisler will answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U39	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I will answer the questions of the heirs in order. The first question: 'What is the Ministry's position on the protocol on the intentions of RMK and Est-For Invest? Why is such a legal agreement to be concluded before it becomes clear whether, because of environmental impacts or planning, such an undertaking will be possible? " In May last year, the government decided to initiate a country's special plan to explore the possibility of establishing a wood refinery in Estonia. The planning process will last for several years and will carry out a number of different impact studies. Whether or not a plant should depend on both the results of the studies and the decisions taken by investors. If it appears that environmental impacts cannot be tolerablely mitigated, such a plant will not be built. In this case, the establishment of the plant will not be financed nor will RMK and Est-For Invest be followed by a supply contract. The conclusion of plans protocols is the usual practice of RMK. For example, in spring 2011, a cooperation protocol was concluded with AS Latvijas Fiinieris Kohila for the construction of a modern plywood plant, in spring 2013 a cooperation protocol was signed with Granul Invest for the construction of the plant in Osula and in autumn 2014 a similar protocol for the construction of a new pellet plant in Imaverre. Therefore, the cooperation protocol with Est-For Invest is not new given the current practice of RMK. The Ministry considers that the conclusion of a protocol of intent is in accordance with current law and does not necessarily affect the further process of environmental impact assessment and planning. I stress that the protocol of intent has not been concluded so far. The second question: 'Has the Ministry checked whether Mati Poll did not make decisions and did not share the tasks with the Management Board of RMK, being himself in a potential conflict of interest, thus abusing his position and authority? Are there any signs of a breach of an operating restriction, a trade in influence or any other possible abuse of public trust in the activities of that official? ' Mati Polli left the office of Chairman of the Supervisory Board of RMK in 2016. In particular, the last meeting of the Council chaired by him took place on 22 September 2016. He submitted his resignation on 30 November 2016 and the Government of the Republic changed the composition of the Council on 22 December 2016. The Supervisory Board of RMK is independent and independent in its choices, and no previous member of the Supervisory Board has the current 9-member board. The Supervisory Board of RMK discussed the intention protocol to be concluded with Est-For Invest for the first time in autumn 2017. The developers came to the public with the idea of the factory in January 2017. So when Polli left in 2016, the Council discussed this issue for the first time in autumn 2017. The Ministry has checked the corruption prevention measures implemented in RMK, most recently in May 2017. The 2017 overview of the National Audit Office's prevention of corruption about state-owned companies has found that the control and order of corruption prevention in RMK is sufficient. The functioning and effectiveness of RMK's internal control system are generally assessed by RMK's internal audit unit and, as we know, RMK has the following regulations in place: Corruption Prevention Guide, Risk Assessment Guide for RMK, Procurement Procedure for RMK, Process Management Rule for RMK and Reporting of Ancillary Activities and Related Persons. In addition, in the first half of last year, RMK addressed the Police and Border Guard Board with a view to improving measures to prevent corruption. According to the PPA proposals, the regulations for preventing corruption in RMK have been revised and improved. The PBA has organised five training courses on corruption prevention for the management and other employees of RMK. Question 3: Does the protocol of intent between RMK and Est-For Invest comply with EU state aid rules? According to these requirements, this agreement should not have a selective character and should not confer an advantage on a single market operator. Therefore, not only price, but also quantities of supply and security of supply are the values for which the best offer should be made available only in a competitive bidding procedure open to all market participants and transparent. In this situation, how can RMK make specific commitments to Est-For Invest? In order to rule out any doubt as to whether a protocol of intent may fall within the scope of the State aid rules, a legal analysis of Law Firm Lillo & Partners OÜ has been commissioned to assess whether State aid could be involved if the draft protocol was signed and, if so, whether the State aid regulation was infringed. According to the legal analysis, the conclusion of the protocol is not to be regarded as granting State aid, I quote a legal analysis here, where it is ensured that the procedure for the conclusion of a lawful long-term contract and the conclusion of a long-term contract are guaranteed that the successful tenderer will not receive forest material at a price which is less favourable than the market price and will not benefit from a competitive advantage compared to other undertakings. RMK has so far followed and intends to continue to follow the rules laid down by the laws in force and to ensure that the fair procedure is carried out at the market price of the sale of timber without giving any competitive advantage to any tenderer. According to its timber marketing strategy, RMK sells 85% of the total annual volume of timber at a fixed price on the basis of durable contracts and 15% using other sales methods. The timber marketing strategy is available to everyone on RMK's website, it is up there. RMK will organise further negotiations on durable contracts in 2019. The application can be submitted by all timber processing companies willing to purchase timber at market price. With them, RMK will enter into negotiations to conclude a contract with the desired quantity and deadline. The negotiations shall, inter alia, agree on the price and the circumstances, quantity, variety, as well as the terms of amendment, suspension and termination of contracts. According to its timber marketing strategy, RMK sells timber profitablely and wins the best offer. I also quote here the timber marketing strategy: 'The sale of RMK's timber must be transparent and understandable, the information about the resource sold must be accessible and up-to-date, the possibility of participating in offers must be open to all interested parties fulfilling obligations to the state. ' Question 4: To what extent does such a supply agreement affect the market? How can we ensure that there are reasonable felling volumes and compliance with the sustainable development strategy? ' Again, I stress that the protocol of intent is not a supply agreement. No timber will be delivered on this basis. If timber is ever delivered, it will be auctioned on the basis of a durable contract. Of RMK's annual sales volume, paperwood accounts for 34%. Most of this now goes for export. The planned wood refining plant would sell at most half the annual volume of paperwood, i.e. an estimated 17% of RMK's annual sales volume. It is wood that is currently being transported by ship from Estonia. The long-term supply agreement will rather have a positive impact on the market, as timber prices will be more stable, also allowing more uniform cutting capacity for private owners. Otherwise, they would boost the cutting during a period of higher market prices. General felling volumes will be established with the new forestry development plan, which will be adopted by the Riigikogu. The Sustainable Development Strategy sets the objectives of prosperity growth, the viability of the cultural space, ecological balance and social cohesion. Sustainable wood use, together with increased well-being at local level through the enhancement of wood, is in line with the sustainable development strategy. Question 5: "How are the obligations of RMK reflected in the Protocol of Intentions if Est-For Invest does not achieve a delivery contract under the Intentions Protocol with RMK? How have the risks been mitigated so that the latter would not be able to lodge subsequent claims for damages with RMK? ' According to the working version of the Intentions Protocol, RMK and Est-For Invest agree on the basis of the preparation and negotiation of a contract for the supply of paper wood and on certain basic terms of a possible supply contract. According to the Intentions Protocol, the parties negotiate in good faith in order to reach the conclusion of a supply contract in 2020. There shall be no obligation to conclude a supply contract. Est-For Invest has the opportunity to participate in the durable contract negotiations organised by RMK. Failed negotiations, resulting in no delivery contract, do not give Est-For Invest the opportunity to bring damages to RMK. The risk of claims could arise if RMK does not conduct a legal negotiation procedure, but there is no reason to fear this at the moment, given the previous practice of RMK. Question 6: 'Aigar Kallas, Chairman of the Management Board of RMK, said at a press conference held on 1 February 2018 that he would have informed the public and other market participants about this agreement only after it was concluded. Do you consider it reasonable that only one person in a profit-making state institution can make individual decisions of an estimated value of EUR 300 to 450 million? What steps have been taken to clean up and make RMK's activities transparent? Should and who should take responsibility in this situation? ' The conclusion of long-term contracts is part of the daily work of RMK and the competence of the three-member board. Aigar Kallas is also a member of this board. And the Bureau has presented to the Council the working version of the draft minutes. The Supervisory Board of RMK discussed the intention protocol to be concluded with Est-For Invest for the first time in autumn 2017. RMK sells timber as a profit-making establishment in accordance with the decree of the Government of the Republic 'Procedure of cutting rights and the sale of timber in the state forest'. It has also been published in the Official Journal of the State, which is accessible to everyone. It also provides for the conclusion of long-term contracts. They are auctioned, so one person cannot make individual decisions on the sale of timber. As far as responsibility is concerned, according to the Forest Act, RMK's supreme management body is the Supervisory Board of RMK, as well as the Board is responsible for the legitimacy of its decisions. The Executive Board shall be supervised by the Governing Council. On the introductory statement by the rapporteur for the inquiry, I would say so much more: the claim that the conflict of interest has reached the Ministry of the Environment is completely wrong. However, this should also be demonstrated in some way where this conflict of interest is in the ministry. There's no point in making such naked claims. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U40	Questions for the Minister. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U41	Thank you, Minister. The intertwination of interests is a matter of course here. The bottom of the protocol of intent has been made by lawyers who are the same on Est-For Invest and RMK. My question is that preliminary studies of professors Ülo Mandre and Erik Puura at the University of Tartu clearly show that Lake Peipsi and Lake Emajõgi would not tolerate such a large factory. Why, though, is research progressing? Is it still the goal to find out how much worse the environmental status of Tartu, Emajõgi and Peipsi could get so that the law is not violated?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U42	Thank you. Why go on with research? The processing of the country's special plan and the assessment of environmental impacts are essentially governed by two laws. One is the Planning Act, which has a separate, long chapter on the country's special planning. It says exactly what you're doing, a step after what you have to do. The Environmental Impact Assessment and Environmental Management System Act states very precisely, step by step how to carry out strategic environmental impact assessments. And when we read these laws, we can see that there is no such procedure that some people, a professor, an academician, a scientist, just does it and says that here it is, you don't need to study anything more. The law states which steps must follow each other, how a public procurement is carried out to assess the impact, how an impact assessor is selected. All these steps are clearly indicated. And if, for example, these same professors are the evaluator of these effects or the sponsor of further studies, it is all welcome, but it is also in line with the law. It cannot simply be arbitrarily said that we have carried out such a study or a different study, we must be guided by the law when we carry out environmental impact assessments. Similarly, the Planning Act provides very precisely for the steps to be taken by the organiser of the plan: when to tender, how to choose the environmental impact assessor. The plan is organized by the Ministry of Finance, the Minister of State Administration, in accordance with this law, and he has written all the steps in advance very precisely.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U43	I would remind you that in the case of enquiries, each member of the Riigikogu can ask an oral question. Krista Aru is doing it now. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U44	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You have just described how precise all procedures have been defined in law: how environmental impact assessments are carried out and how public procurement is carried out to find an environmental impact assessment. Would you now open up just as precisely the backgrounds of the studies, analyses, decisions, or also of the law itself, which led the government to initiate a special plan, with Tartu's immediate vicinity in mind? We know there have been other places. Why was Tartu's neighborhood chosen to initiate a special plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U45	Thank you. A special plan was initiated if my memory doesn't fool me in May last year. And this bill was on the coordination ring. Among other things, it was presented to the Viljandi and Tartu County Municipalities Association, as well as to the Cities Association, to coordinate as far as I know. So if they wanted to know if the municipalities were aware and were able to express their views, then there was a possibility. I am unfortunately not fully aware of all the nuances, because, firstly, I was not the Minister for the Environment at the time and, secondly, this draft decision was directly the responsibility of the Minister for Public Administration. On two occasions, the Ministry of the Environment issued its opinion on this preparatory draft. The first opinion was given when a possible developer submitted a request to initiate this specific plan and the second one was submitted a letter of coordination of the draft decision to initiate the plan. It describes a number of aspects. And when you read this initiation decision, it also describes the general situation, why two counties have been selected for this plan: Viljandi County and Tartu County. More specifically, the municipality's accuracy has not been proposed there; the possible location is with the precision of the county.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U46	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U47	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I am asking about this protocol of intent, although the same issues may also concern special planning. In fact, Mr Talijärv, Chairman of the Supervisory Board of RMK, was in front of the Special Committee on Anti-Corruption in the Riigikogu a month ago, and there he admitted that many things were unclear to the Council. This concerns both pricing and a possible conflict with State aid rules. Do you know if any answers to these questions have come or are they coming? And how does it even occur that both the special plan and the protocol of its intentions give the impression that some important binding decisions have been prepared somewhere long before the public debate begins before the studies come? Isn't that the main reason that the public has already been set in advance against the whole process and the possible plant?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U48	Thank you. It is certainly a concern that many people have received such an impression. This statement sounds very strong, as if something had been decided in advance. But as far as I know, potential developers themselves have repeatedly confirmed to the public that if the environmental impact assessment makes it clear that the environment is being seriously affected, then this plant simply does not come. The decision depends on the assessment of environmental impacts and, according to the law, on the assessment of other impacts. And on this basis, a decision is finally made as to whether or not to move forward. And this decision, as everyone here understands very well, will not fall in the near future. Perhaps this is what raises the question that it does not realise that this process is very, very long and we do not have an answer today, where and under what conditions this kind of plant could be built. But two more moments on this question. First of all, as I emphasised, the question was whether any additional information had come to the Council in the meantime. Additional information is that legal analysis has been ordered from Lillo & Partners Attorneys-at-Law. It has been completed and is at least available to the members of the Council. And this analysis also assessed whether compliance with the Forest Act should such a protocol of intent be drawn up and, secondly, whether there are problems with State aid rules. I stress once again that this protocol of intent has not been signed. There has also been unfortunately different information on this in the press. So far, this protocol has not been concluded, although there is a working version of it that has been presented to the members of the Council.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U49	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U50	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Undoubtedly, Estonia must take its natural resources, including the forest, seriously and use it with the greatest possible benefit, i.e. by deserving timber, creating added value. Now listening to this discussion about the construction of a wood refining plant, the logical question is, how the State Forest Management Centre reached such initial agreements with Est-For Invest, was the protocol signed or not. Were there other alternatives to other interested parties, other providers who could do the same, perhaps using a much better technology? Perhaps it was still the case that a private operator came along, offered his business idea on the basis of his own interests, and RMK began to favour a private company at a very early stage.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U51	Thank you. As I have already pointed out, the process has traditionally been carried out in RMK, so if there is a very large customer, he will ask RMK in advance whether it is worth thinking about setting up his own plant, whether he will be able to get enough raw from RMK. And, as I mentioned, in the case of Kohila plywood plant, such a prior cooperation protocol was concluded in 2011. Granul Invest, who has criticised the idea of drawing up the current protocol of intent, has twice signed an analogous protocol of intent: in spring 2013 for the construction of the Osula plant and in autumn 2014 for the construction of the Imaverre pellet plant. Large customers really turn to RMK in advance. The same was true of the Estonian Cell factory, which was built in Kunda. RMK will be approached, land beweighed, draft protocols have been drawn up and a supply contract based on market price will be concluded later. Then there will be negotiations, saying that the quantity is so and so large, everyone can make their offer. True, we need to understand that once this long duration agreement has been concluded, the customer will be obliged to purchase this quantity. Indeed, if there are large quantities, they must be guaranteed in the same way, but they must be bought out in the other way. It's a two-way deal. The price will be negotiated by auction and, as far as I know so far, it has been in line with the complex name of the order that I have already mentioned. This is the procedure for the sale of logging rights and timber in state forests, which has been confirmed by the Government of the Republic.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U52	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U53	Thank you, Honourable Chairman. Honorable Minister! You said the protocol of intent wasn't signed yet. You, as a minister, are likely to have at your disposal, as a representative of the owner or state, information on how this protocol is to proceed. At that meeting with the Commission, to which Mr Herkel referred, Chancellor Talijärv said that the RMK Council would meet in early March. Has this Council meeting been held or not? If not, when will it happen? And what will you know about this protocol?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U54	Thank you. First of all, in the case of RMK, it is interesting that the Minister for the Environment is not directly representative of the interests of the owner. RMK is not a company, it is a profit-making institution and it operates under the Forest Act. RMK's highest management body, as I have already said, is a council to which some members are known to be appointed by the Riigikogu and some by the government. The role played by the Minister as a general meeting of the company, in this case I do not. I do not have the kind of guidance provided for the company. The highest body is the Council and it decides. As far as I know, the next Council meeting will take place in the second half of this week. On Thursday, I will be assisted by a member of the Supervisory Board appointed by the Riigikogu. I expect that this issue will certainly be under discussion in the Council. The Bureau will probably present the results of this legal analysis, which I was talking about here, and it will then also discuss the possible protocol on intentions.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U55	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U56	Thank you. Minister Kiisler! I still come back to the question of trust or conflict of interest. You know very well that your chancellor before he became chancellor or before he came to work at the Ministry was the head of a representative organization of forest workers. He is closely associated with their representative organisation. The story that RMK's Ministry of the Environment does not control no The Ministry of the Environment basically appoints its chancellor to head the Supervisory Board of RMK. The same chancellor runs this council. Looking at the wider picture, it is clear that this Chancellor has lost every confidence in everyone's eyes. My question is, if you want the forest war not to go on like this, when will you let this chancellor go?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U57	The Chancellors are appointed and dismissed by the Government of the Republic. Interestingly, the Chancellor has been in office for more than four years and I have never heard such claims from you before. I really can't agree with this in any way. I mean, what you said here for the start, as if a conflict of interest had reached the Ministry. There is no connection between the possible investors of the plant and the Ministry of the Environment. And you can't infinity refer to people's previous jobs. So how long do we set the limit? For example, if a person worked for an association five years ago, would he be excluded from working for a public institution? I think it would have been logical for such an approach to raise this issue when a person was proposed as a high civil servant. But five years later to talk about that, listen, he worked five years ago at a place like this, I don't think it's at least good practice, if nothing else.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U58	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U59	A small comment about the last topic. Just as the fate of our colleagues who have left the Riigikogu shows: politician, this is a disgrace to death. In this sense, I think that the answer was unsatisfactory. What do you mean, five years? You're gonna die by being in your party! Me too! But now the next question, purely legal. Please tell me, what was the basis for the special plan? Let's take the planning law, I can't find that point there. There are exhaustive lists of State special planning cases, there are 8 to 9 pieces, and any factory or installation is not included. The closest thing is that a special plan is made for the permanent storage of waste that pollutes nature, but you have not mentioned it as such. So what is the legal basis for the special plan and where did it come from?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U60	Once again, I did not prepare this bill at the time. But here, in the course of the debate, I find it misleading to refer to another point in the planning law. I don't have that law ahead of me, I can't name the section. In one section there is that list, but above, in an earlier section, if you have this law before you, it is generally stated in which cases a special plan of the State will be initiated. It also says that if there is a national cross-city interest, I will now quote from the head and may be a bit wrong in terms of wording, then there is a basis for initiating a country's special plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U61	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U62	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, The question is: what has the Ministry of the Environment, RMK and Est-For Invest done wrong to create such a negative background in the construction of the plant? What communication errors have been made in terms of disclosure and preparation?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U63	Thank you. I'm not a communication expert. That would be a good research question for someone who deals with communication at scientific level. Now, if you try to evaluate and analyse afterwards, when the representatives of Est-For Invest first came to the public, they heard a lot of criticism for coming to the public with their intentions, for no answers to questions or solutions yet. Their comment was that they tried to do everything well in public, even to inform the public as soon as possible about their intentions. You may remember that when this information came in early 2017, they held a press conference. Maybe the lesson is, if you come out in public, there's gotta be answers. Perhaps only thoughts and intentions do not have to come, the preliminary work has to be done a little longer. I can make that assessment.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U64	Honourable Riigikogu! The procedure for replying to inquiries is regulated by § 140 of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act and according to this, a member of the Riigikogu is able to ask one oral question. Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U65	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. Can you tell us at a government meeting, which were the main moments against which the Tartu Council was wrong when it decided not to support this project?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U66	Thank you. I didn't understand the question very well, but I think the City Council of Tartu has a perfectly legitimate right to make any kind of statement. I don't think they're wrong about some rule.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U67	There are no further questions for the Minister. I'm opening negotiations. Arthur Talvik, on behalf of the heirs, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U68	Thank you. I thank the Minister for his answers. Although you could paraphrase him and tell him to come out with answers. But that's why you can always pick on me. The Free Party is keeping up the subject of the forest because we are trying to look at the bigger picture. We don't want to go into a particular fight with Est-For Invest versus Tartu or anything like that. We just want to look at the Estonian forest, which is one of our culture, our being here, the foundations of our economy, and also very important to us in an emotional, social sense. We want to look at it in a larger picture and look for a balance between all these different parties ♪ these are then the management side, the social side and the cultural side. At the moment, the situation is clearly unbalanced, not only because of this Est-For plant, but also because of other things. Let's look back at the amendments to the Forest Act last year, look at all the other signs that clearly show that there is very great pressure on the Estonian forest. It is intended to be cut more and to be regarded as only growing trees and bills. Therefore, the Free Party came out with the Manifesto of the Forest Peace. It has ten points, some of which I'll bring out here. I also recommend that the Minister read this manifesto and why not sign it at the petition centre, or portal, petition.ee. Above all, we say there that we could, until a new, public agreement has been reached, or let us call it a public agreement until the new development plan has been put together, to make a cutting peace and limit the cutting to six million cubic metres per year. Yes, if it is a so-called white leaf or wood that is currently not cut at all, and it is found to have a good function, then this volume could also be larger • please very! Another important point, which we, as a Free Party, have talked about very many times on this board, and which we have asked questions about, is the clear cutting of nature reserves, which are surprisingly massive and out of their minds. Clear cuttings in nature reserves could stop and act the old way. Next comes the points that relate to the same Est-For, the points that talk about trust. That is precisely if we want to make a public agreement and if one of the parties says that we do not trust the Ministry's Chancellor, they have said this for a very long time and they have also explained why they do not trust him, then this is the point of thinking for the Minister of the Environment. The Chancellor of the Ministry of the Environment is not trusted because he does not protect the environment but rather acts in the interests of the industry. There are many such accusations among nature's conservationists. And this is the point of thinking. If the person who should essentially organise discussions and legislative changes in the development plan has been accused in this way, the Minister could draw some conclusions. I call on everyone to read and think about this manifesto and to declare not a forest war, but a forest peace until the agreement that we would use in the development plan and which tells us how we will deal with our forests in the next ten years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U69	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U70	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I fully agree with Arthur Talvik: our forest must be protected! If you go on from here and talk about Est-For, after studying the relevant materials as a lawyer, I can assure you that from the very beginning the dance has been on the Est-For instrument. In designing this biggest industrial investment in Estonia ever, nothing has been left to chance. At the very beginning, 12 points were submitted to the government for execution and, if you read these points, it can be said that the government has been busy filling them. The developer has already prescribed the terms of the special plan of the state in advance: the factory can only come to Tartu or Viljandi county for up to 10 kilometres, preferably up to five kilometres from Suur-Majõe. At the request of the developer, the construction of the factory in Pärnu, Põlva or Jõgeva County is immediately excluded. However, if we look at the interests of the country, it would be in the interests of the country to look for a plant that needs large quantities of timber and emits emissions into the river and into the air, a place where it will cause as little damage to wildlife as possible. It is very unfortunate that the alternatives were not considered. Now that we're talking about Viljandi County, I'm sure you'll all understand that no one is going to build a factory and build railroads in Viljandi County, near the Great Mother's River. Reola's gonna fall off, too. What's it gonna be? They'll be Vorbus and Kärkna, where I think the River of Mother and the Railroad will intersect. Tarmo Soomere, President of the Academy of Sciences, has said that he does not agree that the factory can be built upstream of Tartu that it can be accepted. It is a pity that I missed another question without just having the opportunity to ask one question. But I am now talking about environmental impact assessments and studies that are known to be paid by the founder of the plant. If only after the studies have been carried out is the decision whether or not to set up a factory, it remains unclear why an entrepreneur should have an interest in contributing hundreds of thousands of euros without any state guarantee to simply explore the surroundings of Emajõe and Tartu. When it comes to cutting down trees, both the Tartians and other South Estonians are certainly completely justified in fear, because the founders of the factory have also said that more trees are being taken from the vicinity. So there's nothing else to say but the wrong way has come from the beginning. I am very sorry that the opinion of the Tartians, who have said no for sure, is not taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U71	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U72	Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, Good people's representatives! Today, there have been only two questions discussed here in the Riigikogu in the course of inquiries, which have a much wider background and a much greater meaning. I do not think anyone here would wish or dare to say that the forest is not Estonia's greatest value. The forest, the clean environment and, with it, the safe life, the happy life is, and should be, that's what we all want in Estonia the values for which the talents we are waiting for come here. Thanks to these values, our Estonia will live long and happier. There is another component that we have emphasised very much here and, at the same time, did not care much about it: it is the right of local governments. The Tartu Council held a very stormy meeting and held it right because it protected its people, its residents and defended the principles that Tartu has approved in such an important document as a strategic development plan. If we do not believe or trust our local government, then we believe at least such important paper as the strategic development plan, which says about Tartu that Tartu is a city of education, science, innovation-estimating industry, technology and economics. The extent to which this factory built under the side of Tartu meets these requirements should be met. And that should have been answered from the beginning. I have studied and searched where are the data that would be absolutely convincing to confirm that the construction of this factory will solve some labour problems in Tartu that, by the way, do not exist in Tartu. I have been looking for information that would explain to me why this factory should certainly be right there on the Emajõgi River, what is the potential great benefit of the factory being built, which would outweigh the damage that would be caused to the reputation of Tartu, which would be caused to the reputation of Estonia, and which would be generated to the whole of our healthy, clean natural environment, which we are obliged to give better, or at least as pure, to future generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U73	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U74	Mr. Speaker, I ask you for eight minutes. The rules of procedure are the rules of procedure, and I would say that you are suffering now. I could have spoken for one minute, now you're forced to listen to eight. Let's start with this...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U75	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U76	Thank you. Again, sporadic, random remarks, but Krista inspired me, and I'm gonna get on with it. Let's start with the reputation. Can you imagine a cardboard factory or a steelworks near Oxford University or something like that near Harvard? That there's a melting furnace or something near Stanford? Silicon Valley is maximum. In short, this factory doesn't fit in for reputation, history or anything. I would like, by the way, to point out that this is the idea of the 19th century in the sense that we are investing in the imagination! In the paper. I mean, it's paper newspapers and stuff. We live in the 21st century, we are told about the digital state, which should become paperless, but we link our future to paper. In fact, to be honest, not even with paper, but with a semi-fabric. It has not even been written on the roll that it has something to do with Estonia. Very significant reputational damage is due to the fact that the University of Tartu would be next to the factory in technology the day before yesterday. The only thing that's technologically modern is the cleaning equipment. Big deal! It's a normal chemical industry, you can still clean up the waste, but what can't be ruled out, which is absolute pollution, it's heat. Cleaning devices also require energy, and in the final stage, heat pollution is what kills what is left in the Emajõgi River. And on Lake Peipsi, we can break it up, it's already blooming. Think about where the herrings are going to spawn! Well, there's still a place that lasts a couple of decades longer, but that's it. We must understand that this factory is the end of Tartu, Tartu County and all of South Estonia. Now, here's the question. Very nice guys to announce. Yeah, that's true! But it's not a strategy. I thought it was gonna be a mess. And now there's the question. This paper mill or this cardboard plant cannot be built secretly. You can't put a barbed wire label 'Stoi! Kto idjo? '. I can see that. So the question is, where the hell did it get here and when? Do we want to get back into the Rail Baltic situation again? The train's already gone. This is the moment when you can stop the train and not start this construction. There was also a talk about the country's special plan, and I thank you for the competence and the right answer! That's where it came from. Yes, indeed, such a paragraph exists before the law, and that is true. That was the only possible and very correct answer. But there's a little catch I should be talking about now. Please note, when you read the planning law, it turns out that setting up a private veteran is of national interest. Papi factory is perhaps Estonia's strategic national goal, and it is known that this factory would exclude dozens, perhaps hundreds of potential start-ups that can only be born in the mental environment of Tartu. There was talk of labor. I do not think it is right that we need to build a factory in the hope of refugees, because we do not have a workforce. However, we do not have enough Arabic translation in Tartu. I wonder how they'd be working at that pulp factory. Because there is no other workforce to take from Tartu. Tartu is a high-tech city, a city with a future. If we're talking about this decision right now, look, there's always big trouble with the little detail. Did you notice who the lawyers at the cardboard factory are? These are the Estonian peaks. This is the coolest and most awesome legal office in Estonia. Interesting, isn't it? What's legally difficult about it? You cut the trees, you get the trees, I pay. It's a fifth-year student master's thesis, no more, but it's a top lawyer. Why? There's a catch! This is a constitutional problem and we need to resolve the question of whether Tallinn and Stenbock decide or whether Tartu, the spirit of Tartu, the history of Tartu, together. Dear friends and fellow fighters! Today, the real question is what we are as Estonia. Is our word here worth anything at all? Why all the local elections, and so on? And finally. Tartu is a nest of academic intrigues where people have died of heart attacks for centuries since Johan Skytte. Tartu has now reached such a rare consensus, a political consensus, a real sense of the Tartian. I'm a vigilante from Tartu County. We watched with envy how they did it, and we're so proud to have such great people at our county center. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U77	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U78	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I'm from Tartu County, too. What is happening in Tartu County is, frankly, rather embarrassing. It is a colonial policy. Yeah, you gotta deserve it, you don't have to deliver the log, we do the raw materials ourselves. But where do we make it, and who do? One of my acquaintances loves to say that he is a member of the Tartu Council, that he is from the city of prison and university, but tomorrow he is from the city of prison, university and stink. The wider company of Tartu and the City Council of Tartu clearly said no. There's no point even studying in circumstances where everything is clear. It is clear that there will certainly be money when it comes to the cardboard plant, both transferred and literally, but the question is at what cost. In fact, it is possible to start producing this cardboard with a closed cycle. But in that case, it gets too expensive. The Tallinn assistant mayor Mölder wrote a story that made my brush red: he asked why you resisted. I wrote him back to propose that you build a cardboard plant by Lake Ülemiste or the Pirita River. He hasn't done it to this day. But what I want to say is: because the closed cycle cannot be done and the water must be expelled from the factory, because otherwise the money should not be paid now, and it would not be possible to produce at all. If there was a clean factory, the venture would be too expensive, and there would be no point in doing so. It is therefore a colonial policy. In the meantime, it was said that if Tartu is not good enough, we will build a factory somewhere in Ida-Virumaa, let these Russians suffer, after all, they are used to the polluted environment. That, too, is a shameful approach. A billion to one who doesn't want it!? Any government would. But I have intel that the investment is actually getting even bigger. And if Estonian men, Estonian boys, do not have a billion more than that, then maybe investors from Sweden or Finland will have to join them, who will give the missing money. But in such a case, the whole smell factory or the cardboard plant may soon slip into someone else's property. I don't know if that's a good solution. So, in fact, the situation is quite clear. My colleague Igor said that we are looking at the last century instead. On the one hand, we should do something, but we are actually in a state of compulsion. And speaking of the chancellor of the Ministry of the Environment, he's an old colleague of mine, a good man, but indeed a former leader of the Forest Industries Association. It is clear that Mati Polli also knows Estonia's forests very well, look at who he once worked for before Sylvester was created! Everything is like the best, active Estonian men and promises a large investment, but for some reason only to a certain place. So I don't like it. The people of Tartu don't like it, and I can assure you, even the people of Tartu County. As head of the Tartu County region of the Central Party, I can say that we have not made a statement on this, but it is not suitable for us either. Investment is needed, but where to do and how these opportunities should be much wider. And colonial policy to pursue in the 21st century, no thank you, no! Take care!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U79	Jaanus Marrand, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U80	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Surely you can speak well emotionally well, call this planned plant a cardboard plant, a paper plant, a pulp plant, but you can also call it a refinery. There are quite a few angles of approach. I do not think that modern wood chemistry means a 19th - century paper mill or a pulp mill. As a member of the Supervisory Board of RMK, I have also studied the so-called prospectus of this plant, the materials that it wants to produce, what to do. I have realised that there is a plan to start producing materials from plastic substitutes to clothing and a series of innovative products. And the cellulose is definitely there. To call it a cardboard plant and to go along with a very emotional flow, well, if the plan of investors is like a 16th-century witch bench, it's very easy to spit on it. In my opinion, such thinking is not appropriate for the 21st century. Just as in the 21st century, the thinking represented here by the chairman of the Free Party, who expressed the opinion that five, six, or no matter how many years ago, a person in a particular position is not fit to work in any of the following places. Look, I recently read a book about North Korea where people were asked where your parents were during the war with the Americans. If they were working in a certain position, their children and grandchildren had not been able to go to university, they belong to the wrong box. There shouldn't be that kind of thinking. I'm sure if there's any specific charges, they should be on the table. I've seen nothing but emotional accusations today. Emotional accusations from one party or another are not correct today, in the 21st century. Now that we are talking about this so-called cardboard factory or pulp mill or wood refinery, its location is indeed a matter of its own. Where, why and when? To say that it will necessarily come to the Town Hall Square more or less, as one Euro Commissioner said here, is obviously an exaggeration. Obviously, it's an exaggeration to call it a stink factory. I recall that there are quite a few such plants in Finland. As a rule, their waters are diverted to large inland waters. And I haven't heard that the Finnish lakes have gone terribly bad, and they stink, and they're at an end. Nor do I think that Estonians are poorer builders and environmentalists than Finns. Let us look at the activities of this same group of investors in Estonia in the construction of the Imavere sawmill, which brought about a revolutionary turn! Before that, the logs were shipped out, and then the table material is shipped. There's been a whole cluster. It is not just a sawmill, as one could say in a very simplified way. It produces adhesive beams that are transported to Japan, it produces pellets, it has a renewable energy unit. It's a whole cluster: log houses, etc. It all works. It is created by Estonians and works very well! Now, to say that you don't need to investigate, you don't need to talk, we already know everything. I don't think that's quite adequate. What is the technology used? As far as I know, technological choices have not been made so far. It is necessary to establish a precise technological scheme, which is certain that all emission standards, etc., will be taken into account. That's what needs to be done. As far as reputation's concerned... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U81	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U82	... then it is necessary to determine what the actual environmental load is, precisely, the actual environmental load. And all leading researchers and other scientific forces will certainly be able to participate in this work. It certainly offers opportunities for extensive research into wood chemistry innovation. In this sense, this factory anywhere, the scientific resources of Tartu and Tallinn would have an application as much as possible. A man here was talking about the colonial economy. The colonial economy is when we took out the coarse log a couple of decades ago and now we're taking out two million cubic metres of round paperwood and we're getting less money for it than the Scandinavians get. That's a bad story. We should process it ourselves. Currently, the value added of wood in Estonia is 700 million euros, and we could get some 300 million more when processing fine paper wood. We have discussed important national issues here, and we know how much money EUR 300 million is. And certainly, this production does not have to be at the expense of the environment, polluting the environment, knowing it in advance and using, I don't know, Russian terms, as one member of the Reform Party used here. In my opinion, it is more the thinking of North Korea or the Soviet Union that, although we know everything about our own wisdom, there is no need to examine anything. This is not a smart approach. The chairman of the Free Party stressed that wood and forest related matters are emotionally important and also one of the pillars of the economy. Yeah, that's it. And this fact should be looked at in the light of the arguments of both economic and environmental protection. Of course, it can also be done emotionally. But in any case, the forest yearbooks, even the Forest 2016 yearbook, should be taken up and the data on the different age groups should be looked at, how much forest has been cut in Estonia in the last ten years, whether the forest age has decreased or not, whether or not the felling volumes have increased. Actually, it's not! On the weekend, I dealt with the fact that I learned all the cuttings from the yearbook Forest 2016 by species and age group. Age is not reduced! There is a very clear tendency that forestedness has increased in Estonia. Compared to the time since the war and before the collective farms were formed, Estonia has a million hectares more forest. A million acres more! And these are such forests, many of which will soon be ripe for harvesting. Now we have a purely valued question: do we have such a thing as the economic forest or do we not have it? Should trees fall down and simply be destroyed, or do they need to find an economic purpose and deal with it for the benefit of the whole economy? These are the questions we have before us. In addition to emotions, there is also a need for meaningful thinking when answering them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U83	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U84	My colleague Peter Ernits said he was from Tartu County. I am from Ida-Viru County, and I also have an interest in what we are talking about today. There was more talk about the forest and everything about this big construction, but I'd like to turn our story a little bit the other way, even though there are so few of us left. A few weeks ago, I don't remember if Postman or somewhere else in the press wrote about it. Our colleague Igor Gräzin gave an interview and a question was put to everyone: what are they thinking about what will become of Estonia by 2118, which means, in a hundred years' time? I remembered that, and I used the Internet to find out what Professor Anto Raukas said, a geology-mineralology doctor, a very respected person. I'm going to read the last sentences he said in his interview. He spoke about Estonia being one of the happiest regions in the world in 2118 because, as one of the few countries, we have enough clean water. I mean, by giving this interview, Mr. Raukas meant that we have the River Emajõgi, we have the River Pärnu, we have Lake Peipsi. These really are our great values. I remember seven or eight years ago we went to the Environment Committee in Värska and looked into the state of things. The people of the Ministry of the Environment told us more about the state of Lake Peipsi. And, you know, the pictures that were taken from space showed that not everything was good in Lake Peipsi. On the north side, the water was maybe a little bluer, but on the south side it was more related to the Mendeleyev table, and there were really all the colors represented. And we understand today where all the substances that give color to this great lake come from. There's a big river flowing from the area of Pihkva and bringing it all in. So it's very difficult for me to tell you today what the state of Peipsi water is now in. I mean, it would be nice if we talked about this. But the other story is, because of this big construction, let's say one third of the Emajõgi River goes through this big factory and what it's going to take to Peipsi. The Narva River takes water from Peipsi and flows towards Narva, and the water that the people of the great city of Narva drink comes from the Narva River. As an Ida-Virumaa resident and an ambassador elected from there, it really bothers me. I have to think about it, and we all have to think about what kind of water the people of Ida-Virumaa drink. Thank you so much for asking! I've really listened to what was said here. We were talking about the problem in one way, but I think we should also talk about the other side: water. This is the other half of the big question that was discussed at the Tartu Council meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U85	The members of the Riigikogu do not wish to negotiate any more, but the Minister does. Minister of the Environment Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U86	Honourable Chairman! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I would first like to thank the members of the Riigikogu for a very lively and serious debate, but I also take this opportunity to comment on some points. First of all, here's what the situation with this plan is: is the train gone and, if it isn't, when is it gone? I assure you, the train has not left today. The mechanism of the law is precisely written in order for everyone to have a say. Involvement, research and then decide whether or not a train is being sent. There is therefore no reason to cause unnecessary panic and to claim that everything has already been decided for today. I'm sure it isn't! Unfortunately, a member of the Riigikogu, Heljo Pikhof, has gone away to throw the suspicion that if environmental impact assessment and other studies are paid by the developer or person interested in planning, as the law states, this assessment may not be reliable. Such a statement amazes me greatly. As we know, here in the Riigikogu was initiated less than a year ago, on 23 March, the amendment of the Planning Act and the related draft Act 411 amending the Environmental Impact Assessment and Environmental Management System Act, which was adopted as a law on 19 April 2017. The law was reworded precisely with the idea that the person interested in the plan would pay for the research needed to organise the state's business plan, including the environmental impact assessment, although the organiser is the Ministry of Finance. And the representatives of all six parties voted in favour of this draft in the final vote. There were no votes against, no abstentions. Heljo Pikhof also voted in favour of this wording, as did several other members of the Riigikogu who spoke here today. You yourself supported this law in this form! I am not going to name it, but I say that the representatives of all the parties were in favour, not one vote against, not one abstention. But I thank the Free Party for the invitation. I've read your manifesto, I've really gotten to know it. At the same time, I would point out that we have a forestry development plan adopted by the Riigikogu until 2020. Here there has been talk of the balance in the implementation of this development plan, particularly with regard to felling volumes, but I note that in all the years that the development plan has been in force, the felling volumes have been smaller than those provided for in the forestry development plan adopted by the Riigikogu. All these years without exception! Here is also a question for the Riigikogu: if you now approve the next forestry development plan until 2030, how can we find this balance? How can we reach a decision that after the Riigikogu is satisfied with its decision? How to ensure that also those members of the Riigikogu who have voted in favour of the forestry development plan do not need to ask later how such a development plan and such cutting possibilities are possible. This is the subject of serious thinking on how to conduct this debate. I would also like to point out that the launch of the new forestry development plan will take place tomorrow in the Cultural Coil, open to everyone. There, by the way, will also be a representative of the European Forest Institute. Can I have some more minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U87	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U88	We hope to join the European Forest Institute Convention in the near future when the Riigikogu votes in favour of this draft this week. This item is on the agenda for this week. So the representative of the European Forest Institute is also present and talks about various aspects to consider when drawing up the forestry development plan. I believe that there will be passionate debates in the preparation of the new development plan, that things will be discussed from the heart and also sharply, but that in the end, a balanced compromise will be reached. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U89	I will close this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U90	The free microphone's open. Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U91	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear members of the Riigikogu who are still in the hall! Today I want to talk about the situation of people with disabilities in Estonia and the activities of the state. Estonia is aware that Estonia ratified the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in 2012 and presented its first implementation report as a country in 2015. The report focused on the analysis of the Estonian judicial area. As we know, our laws are largely exemplary, and there is little to blame for them. The same cannot be said of real life, that is to say, the application of laws. As a result of this concern, the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People prepared a shadow report on the implementation of the Convention, which is entitled 'The situation of people with disabilities in Estonia', in order to draw attention to shortcomings in the implementation of the international convention, building on the practical reality in the life of Estonian disabled people. This report not only focuses on criticism and complaining, but makes very specific recommendations for solving problems. Here I bring out four of the most important findings and recommendations for improving the situation. Firstly, Estonia does not comply with the requirement to establish an independent monitoring mechanism. This means that people with disabilities do not have the opportunity to turn to an independent institution to protect their rights when the case of discrimination relates to social welfare, health care, education or services and goods provided to the public, including access to housing. In the absence of a monitoring mechanism, there is a wider impact. This is reflected in the lack of incentives for national institutions to implement the Convention. Time and again, the issue of people with disabilities is largely a matter of the Ministry of Social Affairs, not of all ministries and agencies. For five years, the Ministry of Social Affairs has not been able to amend one law in order to give the Commissioner for Equal Treatment the right to supervise it as well and to accept statements by people with disabilities between the gears. The Commissioner does not have the resources necessary for this, either in the form of people or in the form of money. Thus, the first recommendation: legitimise the monitoring mechanism by providing the necessary and sufficient funding from the state budget for this monitoring. Secondly, the availability of local social services in Estonia depends to an unfair extent on the ability of disabled people themselves and their relatives to seek the necessary help, but this should depend primarily on the need for help. In Estonia, people with disabilities who are the strongest, not those who are the weakest, receive help. There is a clear starting point for medical care: giving priority to those who are no longer able to ask for help. Very simple! The same approach should apply to social welfare. Recommendation: Ensure equal access to different services for all people with disabilities, tailored to their needs. Thirdly, support for disabled people, especially children with disabilities, does not cover the additional costs of disability. More than half of the parents say that the extra costs do not cover the real costs to a small extent. While 18.5% of children under the age of 18 live in poverty, this figure amounts to 26.2% for children with disabilities. We have not been able to increase the support for children with disabilities for more than 10 years. Fourthly, applying for disability services and grants and assessing the need for assistance are fragmented between different sectors, as well as between national and local government levels. Cross-use of data is not working. This means complex information for people with disabilities, high time and energy costs, as well as loss of the necessary assistance. Recommendation: linking services and benefits for disabled people, including children with disabilities, in the social, health, education and labour fields, to a comprehensive solution at both national and local level, so that their loved ones and guardians are effectively supported, enforced and databases re-organised. Finally. The strength of the state is demonstrated by its attitude towards its weakest members of society. As long as we do not view people with disabilities as fully-fledged members of society, nothing will change. Maybe enough with the big words and the action! And if the good government doesn't know what to do, I suggest you read this shadow report. It's all made of wood and red. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-12_U92	There's no more calls. I'll see you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 5.07 p.m.
