ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-24-0.u2533	Who is this Ristic?
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-24-0.u2534	Don't ask me, I didn't ask him. Be nice, sit down. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 140 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum, I ask the MPs to place their identification cards in the MPs. Please, you know how we determine, if we can't use the electronic system, the officers will have to count. But wait a little longer, the MPs are coming. I use my business procedure the way my Rules of Procedure tells me to. I ask professional services, since we cannot determine by electronic means, to count the MPs. The SRS are leaving the O.R. I ask professional services to count the MPs in the O.R. We've determined by counting that there are 107 MPs. So we don't have a quorum. I suggest a break by 12.00 hours. ( AFTER PAUSE - 15.20 p.m.) We're continuing our work. To determine the quorum, please place your cards in the MPs' units. If the electronic system doesn't work, I'd ask professional services to count the MPs in the O.R. Since we don't have a quorum, I'm taking a five-minute break. I would ask the MPs not to move away from the O.R. Having obtained the conditions, I propose that we establish the mandate of Members of the People's Parliament in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for vacant seats, in order to enable them to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been presented with a report by the Republic Election Commission on the selection of MPs in election units 5 - Subotica and 6 - Zrenjanin, to fill seats in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You have also received a report from the Administrative Board, which has established that the conditions for confirming the mandate of Members of Parliament have been met with a proposal that the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5). Law on the election of MPs finds confirmation of the mandate to the MPs: Mihalju Vermeš, candidate from the Socialist Party of Serbia, the Yugoslav Left, New Democracy - Slobodan Milosevic in Election Unit 5 - Subotica and Mr Milovan Vukoje, candidate from the Socialist Party of Serbia, the Yugoslav Left, New Democracy - Slobodan Milosevic in Election Unit 6 - Zrenjanin. On the basis of the report of the Republic Election Commission and the report and the proposal of the Administrative Committee, as referred to in Article 27(5). The law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliaments, I would like to confirm the mandate of the People's MPs Michael Vermesh and Mr Milovan Vukoi. Congratulations to the MPs of the election. I ask the MPs to take part in the work. I remind you that at yesterday's session, the National Assembly decided on Members of the National Assembly at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The Administrative Committee, meanwhile, has proposed another decision on Members of the People's Permanent Work in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which has been given to you. I'm opening a unique search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? He doesn't want to. Do any of the MPs want a word? There's a word from the MP of Life Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-24-0.u2536	I would like to make a proposal to add the name Đusic Dusana to the members' permanent work in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-24-0.u2537	Does the Proposer's representative accept this proposal? Acceptance. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am putting to the vote a motion for a decision on Members of the People's Parliament on permanent work in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, with the addition proposed by MP of the People's Life of Cvetkovic. I find that 123 MPs voted in favour of this proposal, against which there were no one, with abstentions, voted six MPs. It was present in the room of 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has adopted a proposal for a decision on Members of the People's Parliament on permanent work in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I propose that when preparing for publication in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" both decisions on Members of the Permanent Work at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, adopted by the National Assembly at this session on 23 and 24 October 2000, legal -- technical unity and publication as one act. I remind you that at yesterday's session, the National Assembly established the agenda of the Second Regular Session in 2000 of five points and launched a principle search for the first item of the agenda. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: - Proposal for a LAW ON SUPPLEMENTS OF MINISTRATIVES 28 MPs participated in the general search. We're continuing the search on this proposal. Is anyone answering for a word? There is a word from the People's Messenger of Spasoje Krunic.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-24-0.u2538	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, we have endured a lot of things - what and yesterday and I am sorry that we are not in a position to endure even more for the simple reason that we fought for the public transfers of work of the highest body in the Republic on 9 March. The SPO has never accepted, nor can it accept to work in a cave. The truth is, there are some cameras up until a little while ago, and now, but the truth is, in these conditions of humiliation, each of us has to ask if we should work. I believe, Mr. President, I really don't believe that the Assembly ordered the termination of the transfer. I believe because yesterday was the attempt of the New Radio Television, or as it's called, it doesn't matter to me, so after 15 minutes, it was all arranged, so this morning the cameras were removed to send a letter to the president of the Assembly that one day they would probably be transferring congregation sessions, but there are no technical possibilities today. There were, of course, transmissions from the Sava Center and it's a good thing it was, there was transmission yesterday, but it's not a good thing it's not here today. The three basic requirements set by the SPO in the negotiations on the formation of a transitional government were not met and it was important for all sympathisers and members of the SPO to know why we insist. We insist for a simple reason because we believe that Mr. Govedarica, Krsmanovic and Markovic represent and are a symbol of something that cannot stay where they are. If we want respect for the rights and the state in which the right is respected for everything the agreement has been signed on. I remind you it's nine. In June of last year, he proposed a transitional government, realizing that following the horrors we survived by the criminal aggression of NATO, there is something urgent to be done to save this country and to move towards a better one. Others were second opinions, one of them was without an opinion, or at least they were not giving it up. Today we are actually in a situation where the new structure, or DOS, which seems to dictate behavior in this country, determines whether there will be a transfer, whether there will be no transfer, whether the public will know what MPs as representatives of the people in this assembly are saying or what they have failed to do. We were in favour of early elections, we were in favour of a transitional government, we signed an agreement, because we believe that 45 MPs in the Republika Srpska Assembly represent a great commitment, a force that the government can make until the 23rd December early elections. True, last night, a lengthy interview with Mr. Markovic that she said lasted two hours, I was in a forced prison like you here, that he could resign only to Mr. Kostunica. That means there's no Republic Assembly for him, there's no one in this room. If so, I'm sorry if any of you had a chance to hear so it's something different, then I'm pulling what I'm saying, but I think it's too much to intervene. We will continue our joint work, which I believe will be in the interest of everything we have signed, work hard on it, and demand that what we have proposed be respected until the end and that the position of the SPO be respected for the simple reason that we cannot, and you know very well, accept that, in time, we cannot accept that Mr. Bevekarica is one of the members of the electoral commission. I remind you of that because even if some of us heard, which is a symbol of theft, a symbol of abuse and a symbol of what the past government was actually playing at. Gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President, I'm sorry it may not be directly related to the first act and the agenda. Thank you for listening to me. Remember, we're very defeated, very humiliated by the fact that television broadcasts don't have the will of anyone in this room we don't know. I believe none of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-24-0.u2539	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? Yeah. ) There is a word from MP Bojana Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-24-0.u2540	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-24-0.u2541	You spoke, Mr. Ljuboevich, about this point. We'll talk about it later.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-24-0.u2542	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of parliament, despite the obstruction of the New RTS despite the lack of television transmission of this session of the Serbian Parliament, the SPO will take part in a decision on Serbia's transitional government. The people of Serbia want a transitional government to be formed as soon as possible, in order to bring about changes in the republic's elections legally. It's a good thing the SRS MPs decided to stop the obstruction. The SPS, the SRS and the JUL have been in Serbia's coalition government since the 1997 elections and have had time to show what they can do. Citizens want to change, and now they want to know when they're going to have heat, when power outages and so on. The people don't want to hear anymore, they don't want to wait any longer for a transitional government to pay their salaries, pensions, child benefits. Serbian citizens want a transitional government now. I know that the MPs of the SRS did this because in Serbia, the media is regulated, and I understand that somewhat. I know that if this continues, we will have to say that in Serbia, the media has one editor and that we have one brain, especially electronic media. We from the SPO can complain a lot more about the media than anyone. In the election campaign, and even now, RTS is completely closed to the SPO and our President Vuk Draskovic. Radical President Vojislav Seselj has already been on New Serbian TV several times, so after the elections. He was also on the old Serbian TV before the election. About the SPS not to talk. Their representatives are on state television all the time before and after the election. Last night, an interview with Radet Markovic, the head of the DB service, was held in parallel with the Serbian Parliament's New RTS session last night. Having asked the journalist question, would he resign, he replied, if it is requested by Yugoslav President Vojislav Kostunica, so here is the opportunity to ask Mr Kostunica, why does he not request the resignation of Radet Markovic, head of Serbia's DB service? After all, do we need to listen to Radet Markovic's threats to Vuk Draskovic? Through Serbia's New Television. Is this a Nazi state, and members of the SPO of Jews who can kill and harass anyone without any responsibility? Did New Television's show of Serbia mean DOS support for Radet Markovic? In a normal, democratic country, only because of an unexplained assassination attempt on the president of the main opposition party, full police leadership should resign or better, to be replaced. The new RTS head of state security is given an appointment, and the victims and families of the murdered and missing are not given an appointment. In addition to two assassination attempts at Vuk Draskovic, Rade Markovic should also explain the abduction of Ivan Stambolic, the murder of Slavko Curuvija, a number of other unexposed murders. Rade Markovic must not be under anyone's protection. At least we expected the New RTS to defend Radet Markovic from the SPO. What kind of head of the DB service says we should ask Dodik and Milo Djukanovic where Ivan Stambolic is, instead of him knowing and protecting his citizens? If many ministers have resigned, if the DOS has taken over RTS, etc., why so much restraint when it comes to the head of the DB, the president of the Supreme Court of Serbia, a republican prosecutor? If the SPS and DOS do not want to support the SPO's request that the Head of State Security Rade Markovic resign, why are you protecting him? In addition, if the SPS and DOS feel that because of the SPO and Vuk Draskovic are not needed, let Rade Markovic resign because of the unenlightened murder of Slavko Curuvija, due to the abduction of Ivan Stambolic. Is there still a list to be made? For beating up students, for beating up citizens, does it still have to be reminded?
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-24-0.u2543	Please, I've let you do enough to make an introduction, and now stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-24-0.u2544	The SPS MPs are asking the president of Yugoslavia and the DOS to support the SPO's request that the DB service chief resign. The resignation is a moral act. Responsibilities will be determined by the competent authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-24-0.u2545	Thank you. What?
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-24-0.u2546	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-24-0.u2547	Did you register?
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-24-0.u2548	Yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-24-0.u2549	Now you can, but please state exactly what a breach of the Rules of Procedure is.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-24-0.u2550	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in order for the Assembly to work and to make a full decision, there must be 126 MPs in the Assembly room, not 126, 127 or 128 identification cards. In determining the quorum, four MPs sit on the front row, there were five parliamentary cards. I assume one card from Zoran Angelkovic - Bucky, Secretary General of the SPS. That's why I demand that the quorum be determined by a pronunciation. Now that double cards have been drawn, my card has 122 MPs. So there's not enough to work with.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-24-0.u2551	Okay, you've put your remarks on. Be nice and sit down.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-24-0.u2552	Please confirm the quorum by calling, 126 MPs were not in the O.R. for one moment.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-24-0.u2553	The quorum will first be determined. Sir, you made your proposal and be kind enough to sit down.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-24-0.u2554	You can also work with 100 MPs, you can vote the government with 100 MPs, but this government, like everything you do from this moment on, is neither legal nor legitimate. You from the Serbian Renewal Movement know very well what the Socialists and the JUL were doing in the previous term and you are doing the same now.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-24-0.u2555	The MP has the right to advertise the quorum. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. Anybody else answer for a word? Nobody. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm asking the tech people to check this out. I am putting the draft law on the amendments to the Ministry Act in principle. The vote was - 131, against - no one, with abstentions - has voted two, a total of 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. Does anyone want to talk about the bill in particular? He doesn't want to. ( ) Since no one is answering, I conclude a search of the bill in particular. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am putting the bill to the vote on the law supplementing the Ministry Act in general. The vote was - 125, against - no one with abstentions - no vote, no votes - 8, total attendance - 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law supplementing the Ministry Act. We propose on item 2 of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and of the Ministry until the education of the Government of the Republic of Serbia after the parliamentary elections of 2000. FOR years, you have received the bill of law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It's an open principled search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? He doesn't want to. Do any of the MPs want a word? He doesn't want to. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I put to the vote the draft law on the work of the government of the Republic of Serbia and the ministries until the education of the Government of the Republic of Serbia following the 2000 parliamentary elections in principle. For voting -- 127, against -- no one, abstentioned one, voted -- five, a total of 133 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. Does anyone want to talk about the bill in particular? He doesn't want to. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a search of the bill in particular. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I ask the People's Messengers not to have fun. I am putting to the vote the draft law on the work of the government of the Republic of Serbia and the ministries to the education of the Government of the Republic of Serbia following the 2000 parliamentary elections in general. For voting -- 128, against -- no one, abstentioned -- one, voted -- four, a total of 133 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law on the work of the government of the Republic of Serbia and the ministries to the education of the Serbian Government after the 2000 parliamentary elections. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: - THE CHOICE OF THE PRESIDENTS AND MEMBER STATES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA You are presented with a proposal for a candidate for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, in agreement with Article 83. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the president of the Republic of Serbia, Milan Milutinovic. You were given the consent of Milomir Minic, a candidate for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, to accept the candidacy. In this way, and in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Law on the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the conditions have been met that: - the candidate for Prime Minister shall present his programme to the National Assembly and propose the composition of the Government of the Republic of Serbia (Article 92(1)). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia), - to open a search on a candidate for Prime Minister, a programme of candidates for Prime Minister and candidates for government members, - when the government is elected, determine the number of Deputy Prime Ministers and elect the Prime Minister and Prime Minister in the Government (Article 73(10). Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 5. Law on the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Article 187. Rules of Procedure) and, yes, government members take an oath. Is Milomir Miniæ in the O.R.? No, it's not. Please, call him. I ask Milomir Minic, candidate for Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, to present to the National Assembly a programme and propose a composition of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. There is a word for candidate for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Milomir Minic.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-24-0.u2556	The Honorable President, respected MPs, the political and security situation in Serbia, has been created in the wake of federal elections and has been especially caused by the October 5th attack and the burning of the Assembly of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Radio Television of Serbia, is extremely difficult and full of temptations. The wave of violence and uncertainty has gripped Serbia. That today's situation will solve itself is an illusion. In such a situation, when the government and security forces are unable to provide public order and peace, respect for the Constitution and the law, the only means to ensure public order and peace in the country remain political assets. The Socialist Party of Serbia has accepted an agreement to resolve the political crisis by means of political means, to address the country's political crisis creating conditions for the government and security forces to ensure peace and security in Serbia. The agreement of political entities is not easy to reach. The agreement was not reached by political allies. The deal was reached by fierce political opponents. The deal was reached by the Socialist Party of Serbia, the Democratic Opposition of Serbia and the Serbian Renewal Movement. The Socialist Party of Serbia did not enter into this agreement out of fear, out of political calculatorism and narrow-minded interests, but out of responsibility for Serbia, for the state of the country, for the citizens of Serbia to be better than it is today, to be easier for them than it is today and to be less uncertain. These are the key reasons of the Socialist Party, and I am confident that the Serbian Renewal Movement and the Democratic Opposition of Serbia, which led us to try to resolve the political crisis in our country, with the new government, with peace in Serbia, with extraordinary parliamentary elections. I accepted the mandate for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, who was entrusted to me by the President of the Republic of Milan Milutinovic, in a sincere desire to contribute to the preservation of peace and stability of our country along with those political entities who signed an agreement on the calling of early parliamentary elections and agreed to enter the government in times and opportunities that require measurement and tolerance, great responsibility and wisdom in protecting the vital interests of the people and the state and all citizens of our Republic. I can say on behalf of the government members that they'd be happy to change the opportunities for ministers in the government, but we don't choose time. A difficult and complex time for all citizens of our country demands that in the interests of the people and the state act today. The primary task of this government is to ensure public order and peace, to create all necessary conditions for normal life and work of businesses and institutions, to ensure that all problems are solved under the Constitution and the law by political means, to fully protect the system institutions and ensure their functioning at all levels, to ensure full protection of citizens, state, private and personal property and to ensure the smooth and free work of all political parties. All this should create conditions for elections for MPs, which will be announced for 23 December this year, to flow into a democratic atmosphere, in the spirit of tolerance and respect for political differences. The government that is educated is special both in the way it is created and in the way it works and in the limited tasks that are set up for it. It's the government that came out of a political agreement. The vote on its election today in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is a vote on the adoption of the political agreement, made up of parliamentary and non-parliamentary parties -- the Socialist Party of Serbia, the Serbian Renewal Movement and the Democratic Opposition of Serbia. It is a government that will work without parliament, which will be very exceptional for the state of the country at a time when there is a central state body and hence its responsibility with the president of the Republic of Serbia. This great responsibility should be justified only by the great responsibility of political entities that have formed the government and by the maximum support of citizens and the public. I'll do everything in my power to make it happen. By its composition and way of working, this government is different from the known examples of the parliamentary government in our comparative and political history. It will be composed of elders of two resolution ministries. One in which it is managed on an in-coherent, and one in which it is managed on a collegiate principle. The government's own presidential post will be held unanimously by the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister. The role of collegiate president and collegiate ministers is expected to be suppressed in decision-making by collegiate and ideological factors and that general interests and the general benefit for the citizens of our country arise first. The same principle of consensus will ensure governance, editorial policy in Serbia's Radio-Television through a parity-based Management Board, appointed by the Government, with the aim of free, professional and responsible citizens, as well as objectively expressing all political views and beliefs and programmes for Serbia's future economic, cultural and democratic development. The media has great importance in each country's political democratic life, especially in today's conditions in Serbia. Regardless of who owns, states or privates, all media should be in function of the truth. Only such a relationship will significantly affect the reduction of political tensions, the spread of tolerance and democratic culture in our country. This can only be achieved if the media remain free and independent and the professionality of their work raises to a high level. Under the political agreement reached, the government will form parity commissions to review changes made in enterprises, republican authorities and institutions and, if contrary to those organisations, will make the necessary changes. For the overall functioning of the system in the Republic, it is of great importance that, without any obstructions and pressures, all remaining congregations of municipalities that have not been established so far based on the election results of September elections, to create conditions for the exercise of the functions of local self-government in the interests of citizens and in accordance with the law. The time of existence of this government is armed, and its tasks are limited. This is the government in the election and immediately after the election period of the new future parliament. So this government will last two to three months at most. It simply needs to ensure that the daily needs of citizens are met and many of them are very urgent. Allow me to lay down some basic measures for the management of economic and social policy in the coming months. The main objective is to stabilise economic and social flows in our Republic. This will create conditions that the new government that will be formed after the elections can lead a long-term policy of stabilising the economy and increasing production, exports and overall country development. In achieving this goal, the government will have two basic tasks in the coming period -- stabilising economic flows and urgently resolving the most important life issues of Serbian citizens. The economic policy measures by the end of the year should ensure market stability and prices in the Republic, and in co-operation with the federal government stabilise overall macroeconomic movements. The events that occurred in the previous period have created some discontinuity in economic policy, which has caused some problems, above all, big price increases. It is an urgent task to take measures to stop price growth rapidly, for the sake of overall economic stability and protection of the citizens' standard of living. The second priority of the government is to address life issues of citizens, which primarily refers to the payment of earnings and social benefits, to the supply of basic life supplies and medicines and to the provision of heating energy. One of the key elements is public spending policy. It is known that the current revenues are insufficient for the intended volume of public consumption. This calls for a firm definition of priorities in this area. Given today's public spending situation, the main priority will be regular and orderly monthly payouts, pensions and social benefits. The Republic's budget should provide funds for the regular payment of salaries of primary, secondary and higher education staff, as well as at the university, then salaries of judicial and police employees, as well as for children's and social protection and protection of refugees. The missing funds in the budget for these purposes by the end of the year are about 20% of the planned spending. It is so very important that through social security funds, pension-inhabited insurance funds of employees and farmers, social security funds, the Labour Market Office, are allowed to pay regular salaries of health workers, as well as pensions and benefits for the unemployed. The difference between current monthly pension, health care and social benefits for the unemployed is estimated at around 450 million dinars per month for payments at today's level alone. The lack of resources for budgetary commitments and the obligation of social action funds will be sought by the government to secure more efficient public revenue collection from real sources. However, it is a major structural imbalance between production and consumption, which is mainly due to low intensity of economic activity. The second key direction of activity concerns government measures to curb the rise in the price of basic food products. Government measures will allow the subsidisation of costs in the production of bread and milk. This will allow for a reduction of the cost impact on citizens' standards. In addition, it is necessary, using the authority given by the anti-monopol law, to review decisions on price hikes, especially those that have recently had very high growth and which have had a decisive impact on the living standard of the population. In order to calm price developments, other measures from the government's competence, including export interventions, will be taken. Energy policy in the coming months of crucial importance for the lives of the population and for economic activity. The most important thing is to ensure the implementation of the energy balance, in particular to ensure the continuity of gas imports for the upcoming heating season. As far as electricity is concerned, the priority is to create conditions for the stable functioning of the electricity system, by improving the functional capacity of the electricity sector and improving its economic performance. It is therefore necessary to provide additional resources, including foreign exchange funds, for the necessary imports of electricity. The security of oil and oil derivatives and their smooth imports are a major problem primarily due to the lack of foreign funds, which the government will seek to address in accordance with its powers and material opportunities. Agrar, a village and a peasant, are one of the priorities of the government. This is the area that has contributed most to the preservation of stability in the Republic over the past period. Therefore, the government will do everything to ensure that the autumn work in agriculture is done successfully and in this sense measures are taken to ensure seed goods, fertilisers, energy and an adequate policy of the prices of agricultural and food products. It's of paramount importance that businesses continue to work. The government's measures will be directed towards facilitating them through the promotion of production and the provision of stable conditions of rejuvenation. I think it is a priority to contribute to the management and management consolidation of companies, where this is marred today, to encourage business initiatives for business co-operation with companies from the world, in order to increase production, speed up technological recovery in our businesses, for greater production and more successful business. We will continue to implement reconstruction projects, in line with material financial opportunities, especially those interventions in infrastructure companies that have suffered from NATO aggression. I also believe that we should provide maximum support for the continuation of the realisation of housing projects, which provide jobs for our industry, and for the citizens of the apartments under favourable conditions. In the realization of all these economic tasks, the government will co-operate with the Union of Trade Chambers of Other Associations and Associations, especially when it comes to the most sensitive economic and social issues. We expect support and understanding from them. With its work, the government will take care of all Serbia and its priority will continue to be Kosovo and Metohija. To that end, the government will continue the policy of protecting our people, which is widely threatened in this province, will insist on a consistent respect and implementation of UN Resolution 1244. It's a great responsibility of this government for a short period of time. Why - first, the parliament does not stand behind this government, because parliament is disbanding. This government will be controlled by the public, citizens and mutual responsibility of the signatories of the Agreement, with the same strength, arguments and political weight, as well as those who will be opposition to this government. Although armed, in times of existence and limited to tasks, the government is expected to play a role that is extremely important for Serbia and its citizens. It, regardless of the results of the parliamentary elections, must make assumptions about establishing the rule of law and rehabilitating institutions in the country. After the experience of taking laws into the hands of individuals or groups and desecrating institutions, under the mask of zero verifiable legitimacy, this government is expected to contribute to the political maturation of all parties, citizens and institutions and to raise the level of competence and accountability in respect of the Constitution and the law, in order to restore trust in the authority of institutions and political methods of work and problem solving. The government will take all measures in its power to ensure that the state functions effectively, that the laws are respected, that citizens can protect their rights, interests and freedoms. The work of the government of the Republic of Serbia depends on much of the macroeconomic policy, which is in the jurisdiction of the federal government and the monetary authorities of the federal state. That is why the government believes that the federal authorities must establish themselves immediately (I mean the Federal Assembly and the Federal Government) and immediately assume all their constitutional powers and responsibilities for the state of the country, for the respect of the Constitution and federal laws. Those political entities that signed the agreement could be defined as not making this government and Serbia leave crisis headquarters policies, fighting, exclusion and intolerance or reaching out for emergency funds that are resting on the force. As a man, I am unhappy that Serbia has come to choose between these two options. As prime minister, Serbia has chosen the right path, communication and political ways to solve the problem. The government will do everything possible to address the problems by political means, through the institutions of the system, and therefore it will do everything to make sure that citizens in the free, democratic and tolerated atmosphere, in equal media conditions, under the new electoral law, free choice23. December, which will be entrusted with programmes and people to decide in the National Assembly of Serbia, to form a new government and manage Serbia. Dear MPs, political entities, signatories of the Agreement, accepted the responsibility of working together for the sake of Serbia and its citizens in public life and in any way not to interfere with the work of political indivisibles and rivals in the upcoming elections. Serbia and our country have faced great temptations. I think what we're doing today is a real political and realistic response to the consequences that could arise if the answers to the temptations weren't asked in a political way. Deeply convinced that Serbia wants and wants peace and development, gathering, not conflict and division, I am with people who are entering the government today, who have agreed to pledge their professional, personal and moral integrity, decided to accept the mandate and ask that the National Assembly supports this government, which will ensure Serbia's stability as a prerequisite for restoring the economy, achieving social functions, strengthening the rule of law and further development of democracy. In the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I propose to be Deputy Prime Minister (I read in alphabetical order): Professor Dr. Spasoj Krunic, born 1939, architect, regular professor of the Faculty of Architecture in Belgrade, Federal and Republic MP ; - Dr Nebojsa Covic, born 1958, Doctor of Machine Sciences, president of the AD FMP Assembly, a federal MP. [[Applause]] I propose: - for Minister of Faith Dr Gordan Anicic, born 1944, doctor of medicine, specialist in gynecology, federal MP; - for Minister of Mines and Energy Dr. Srboljub Antic, born 1955, doctor of economic sciences, since 1997 researchers at the Economic Institute in Belgrade ; – for the Minister of Relations with Serbs outside Serbia Professor Vojislav Vukčević, born 1938, Doctor of Legal Sciences, Lawyer; - for the Commissioner for Information Ivica Dačić, born 1966, graduated politician, federal MP; - for the Committee of Doctors Bojan Dimitrijevic, born 1963, doctor of economic science, professor of the Faculty of Economics in Belgrade; - for the Minister of Care of the family of Doctor Slavic Djukić-Dejanović, born 1951, doctor of medical science and federal parliamentarian; - for the Minister of Science and Technology of Doctors Radivoj Mitrović, born in 1952, professor of technical sciences, professor of the Faculty of Belgrade, former Deputy Minister of Science and Technology; - for the Committee of Science and Technology of the Doctors of the Doctors of the Dr. Radivić Mitrović, Mr. Mr. Mirović, Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Ković, Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr., Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr., Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Kov, Mr., Mr. Mr., Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr., Mr. Mr. Mr., Mr. Mr. Mr., Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Kov, Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Kov, Mr. Kov, Mr, Mr, Mr. Kov, Mr. Kov, Mr. Mr. Kov, Mr. Mr. Kov, Mr. Kov, Mr, Mr. Mr. Mr. K, Mr. Mr. K, Mr, Mr, Mr. K, Mr. K, Mr, Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Kov, Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Kov is is is is is [[Applause]] , a graduate politician, editor-in-chief of the "Serbian Word"; - for Interior Commissioner Bozo Prelevic, born in 1969, a graduate lawyer, lawyer; - for Minister of Economic Relations with the abroad of Dr Goran Pitiæ, born in 1961, Doctor of Economic Sciences, since 1996, Director of the Centre of Economic Research; - for Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management of the Master's Office of Živanka Radovanchev, born in 1947, Master of Technology, Director of DD "Mlekoproduk", Zrenjanin, National MP; - for Minister of Environment Mila Rosić, born 1947, graduate geographer, professor; - for Minister of Industry Veroljub Stevanović, born 1946 [[Applause]] , a graduate engineer, worked on production, technology and maintenance of the Car Factory in Kragujevac; - for Justice Commissioner Sead Spahovic, born 1957, graduate lawyer, city public defender of the City of Belgrade; - for Justice Commissioner Dragan Subasic, born 1955, graduate lawyer, lawyer; - for Interior Commissioner Slobodan Tomovic, born 1946, master of technical science, former Minister of Mining and Energy, National MP. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-24-0.u2557	Thank you. We heard a programme and a proposal from the government, which was presented by Milomir Minic, a candidate for Prime Minister. [[Applause]] The program and the motion to draw up the government were presented to you during the session. I am opening a search on a candidate for Prime Minister, a candidate programme for Prime Minister and candidates for members of the government. Does anyone want a word? There is a word from the MP of the people, Spasoje Krunic, and then the MP of the people, Aleksandar Milutinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-24-0.u2558	Ladies and gentlemen, nothing, of course, I won't contradict. Since we're for the rule of law and for the affirmation of truth, but under number one in front of my name there's one small mistake, which really doesn't mean much, but it makes me very uncomfortable, so please for the sake of order and truth, I am a regular professor of the Architectural Faculty, but I haven't doctored. I'd be very sorry if a complete spontaneous mistake went to the press or anywhere, because it's common. But at my department at the Faculty of Architecture, which is over 155 years old, it was never necessary for a professor to be a doctor of science. And everything else was very difficult, and I have fulfilled everything in my life. I'm sorry and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-24-0.u2559	I thank you, respecting your remarks. There's a word from MP Alexander Milutinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-24-0.u2560	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I want you to help me and tonight we all agree that when we get home, or among our friends, we will respond to those people who ask us, how is it possible that the Serbian Parliament will choose a new government, it will be transitional or impenetrable, two months or three months, no matter how, without the Serbian citizens seeing it. Whether they, I think citizens, will see and hear about the programme from some reports, which I am already beginning to doubt, first of all, that the SPO MPs and the party president hold a conference yesterday, make statements, but it is nowhere to be seen, nor can it be read. It's an honor to meet you, gentlemen of the press. The transitional government wasn't designed on 16 October. The transitional government was mentioned at the end of June 1999, days after NATO's aggression in Yugoslavia and was first mentioned in Vuk Draskovic's speech at a major SPO rally in Kragujevac. All of these goals, which were said by the prime minister of this government, Mr Minic, were then and, above all, Mr Draskovic and other SPPO leaders: the personal and material security of all our citizens and the legal order, the protection of the socio-hazarded citizens, the functioning of the state and its authorities and the organisation of the first elections, fair and democratic elections in our country. All this fits in with the programme given by the mandater and will certainly be voted by the SPO. In the end, just one dilemma. What makes this transitional, or untranslated, or technical, or two-month government going to be remembered? Whether it is a technical set, as is said and fully agreed, of politically uncompromising enemies, or of which it will contribute to the further development of democracy in this country. As far as SPO MPs are concerned, it will be, first of all, because of this second one.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-24-0.u2561	Anyone else want a word? Nobody. () Since no one is answering for a word, I ask the candidate for president if he wants a word? He has the word Milomir Miniæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-24-0.u2562	I would personally like to thank Serbian Prime Minister Mirko Marjanovic, who has been at the head of the Government of People's Unity for seven years here in the Serbian Parliament. I personally know he was headed by the government in difficult times. [[Applause]] He will see people coming to power on December 23rd and that he has made a major contribution to Serbia's economic and social stability and has made a huge contribution to the launch of projects after the aggression. Once again I wish and feel great responsibility, I witness this work, to thank our fellow Mirk and to wish him all the best. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-24-0.u2563	I'm closing the search and we're moving on to a decision. According to Article 187(1). The Rules of Procedure, a proposal for the President and members of the Government, shall be decided in whole by a secret vote unless the National Assembly decides to vote publicly. I remind you that according to Articles 114 and 115. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall be held by means of an electronic voting system unless the National Assembly decides to hold the vote by raising the hand or by calling. The MP of Life Cvetkovic has a proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-24-0.u2564	I propose that in order to work more efficiently, the vote for members of the government should be made public through the electronic system.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-24-0.u2565	Any other suggestions? No, there isn't. ) I ask the MPs to first accept this proposal in order to determine the quorum of their cards. We have a quorum. I would like to put on the vote by MP Live Cvetkovic to decide on a proposal for the president and members of the government by means of a public vote using an electronic voting system. I find that 125 MPs voted for this proposal, against three abstentions, did not vote three out of 132 MPs in the hall. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, has decided to make public use of the electronic voting system for the president and members of the government. Since the National Assembly has decided to vote publicly on the proposal for president and members of the government of the Republic of Serbia by using the electronic voting system, the National Assembly will declare this proposal as a whole. I remind you, according to Article 92, paragraph 2. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 187(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of Governments were elected if the majority of the total number of MPs voted in favour of its election. Before joining the vote, I ask the MPs to determine the quorum. Place your cards in the MPs' units. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I am voting on a proposal for the president and members of the government of the Republic of Serbia as a whole. I find that 133 MPs voted for this proposal, against one, abstention one, did not vote one. A total of 136 MPs are present. Since 133 MPs voted for the proposal for the president and members of the government of the Republic of Serbia, representing most of the number of MPs, I find that the National Assembly has chosen the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the proposed composition. Let me congratulate the President and members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on your behalf and on my behalf. I ask the members of the Government to comply with Article 6. The Law on the Government of the Republic of Serbia approaches to take an oath. [[Applause]] (The newly elected members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia swear an oath): "I swear that in my work I will abide by the Constitution and the Law and that I will perform the duties of a member of the Government with responsibility and security. "I ask the President and members of the Government to sign the text of the oath. I ask the members of the government to sign and hand over the text of the oath. Let me thank the Prime Minister, Serbian Prime Minister Mirko Marjanovic and members of the government for their work and cooperation on behalf of the National Assembly, and I wish them a lot of success in working on new duties. [[Applause]] I ask the members of the government to take their seats, and these are the first lines of the Assembly Hall. I ask the MPs to take their seats and finish this session. We have two more points on the agenda. We move to the fourth agenda: - Proposal for a decision on the appointment of presidents, secretaries and members of the Republic's Electoral Commission and their deputies received a motion for a decision, which was tabled by 48 MPs from the Socialist Party of Serbia. I'm opening a unique search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? No, I don't. Do any of the MPs want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a unique search. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We still need the quorum, make sure your cards work. Please let the MPs who came out enter the O.R. to finish this big part of the job. We have a quorum. 128, against no one, abstentioned one, voted three, a total of 132 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted, by majority, a proposal for a decision to appoint a president, secretaries and members of the Republic Election Commission and their deputies. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a DECISION ON THE NAME OF THE MEMBER STATES OF THE SURVEILLANCE COMMITTEE FOR THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE GENERAL SURVEILLANCE OF THE ASSESSMENTS OF THE PUBLIC PARTIES, CANDIDATES AND PUBLIC ASSESSMENT OF THE PUBLIC A DECISION, which has been tabled by 48 MEPs of the Socialist Party of Serbia. I'm opening a unique search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? No, I don't. Do any of the MPs want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a unique search. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am putting to the vote a proposal for a decision appointing members of the Supervisory Board to exercise general supervision over the procedures of political parties, candidates and public information funds. The 124 vote against no one, with one abstention, had voted five, a total of 130 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted, by majority, a proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Supervisory Board to exercise general supervision over the procedures of political parties, candidates and public notification funds. Just one more second. With this act, a rich period of work of this Parliament has been completed. I have chaired this House for seven years, with your help, which I thank you so much for. I hope that this parliament has contributed to the development of democracy in our country and that the future parliament elected after our disbandment, in the 23 December elections, will also further improve democracy and democratic processes in our country. In all, lived Serbia. Thank you. [[Applause]]
