ParlaMint-RS_2000-04-11-0.u1928	Dear People's MPs, I am opening the First Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2000. I invite you to pay our respects to MP Miroslav Vukic, who died in the period between the previous and this session. Praise him! I would like to inform you that according to official record today's session 174 MPs attend. Please insert identification cards into MPs to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I hereby inform the National Assembly that I have granted my leave to the following MPs: Tatjani Leonard. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. You were presented the minutes of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 1999, held on 21 December 1999. Is there any objection to the record? No, there isn't. I find that there are no objections to the record. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am voting on the minutes of the 2nd session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 1999, held on 21 December 1999, without objections. 165 votes against no one, abstentioned no one, three voted, 168 MPs were present in the hall. I find that the National Assembly adopted most of the votes the minutes of the session, held on 21 December 1999, without any objections. You were given a letter from the president of the SRS parliamentary group, informing the National Assembly that MP Miroslav Vukic died on 26 March 2000. You have also been given a report by the Administrative Board of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the examination of this notice, with a proposal that the National Assembly, on the basis of Article 102, point 9 and point 2 and 3 of Article 102. The law on the election of MPs finds the end of the term of office of MP Miroslav Vukic on the day of death on 26 March 2000. In accordance with Article 102, paragraph 1 point 9 and paragraphs 2 and 3. On a proposal from the Administrative Board, the National Assembly finds that the term of office had ceased before the end of the time it was elected to MP Miroslav Vukic, elected from the Serbian Radical Party's election list - Dr Vojislav Seselj, in election unit 18 - Zaječar, on the day of death on 26 March 2000. According to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the vacancy in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be completed. You have accepted the resignation of Zivorod Tiosavic as MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the report by the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the examination of this resignation, with a proposal that the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 102(2) and Article 2(2) and Article 3. The law on the election of MPs finds the end of the mandate of MP Živorad Tiosavic on the day of his resignation. In accordance with Article 102(1), point 2 is replaced by the following: On a proposal from the Administrative Board, the National Assembly finds that the term of office had ceased before the end of the time elected to MP Zivorad Tiosavic, elected from the election list of the Serbian Radical Party - Dr Vojislav Seselj, in election unit 13 - Shabac, on the day of his resignation. According to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the vacancy in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be completed. You have received the resignations of Novotni Lassla as MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the report by the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the examination of this resignation, with a proposal that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 102(2) and Article 2(2) and Article 3. The law on the election of MPs finds the termination of the mandate of MP Novotni Lassla on the day of his resignation. In accordance with Article 102(2), point 2 is replaced by the following: On a proposal from the Administrative Board, the National Assembly finds that the term of office, before the end of the time to which it was elected, was elected by MP Novotni Laslo, elected from the Socialist Party of Serbia, the Yugoslav Left - New Democracy - Slobodan Milosevic, in the election unit 6 - Zrenjanin, on the day of his resignation. According to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the vacancy in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be completed. I received the resignation of Dr Jove Todorovic as Minister of Education in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In accordance with Article 202(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The People's Assembly's Rules of Procedure has been notified to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. I remind you, Article 202 is paragraph 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are scheduled for the National Assembly to find, without a search, that a member of the Government resigned and not to decide. According to Article 202(4). Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly finds that Dr Jovo Todorovic resigned as minister of education in the government of the Republic of Serbia. We're moving on to the agenda. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before setting out the agenda for the session, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we need to decide on proposals for the adoption of acts by emergency procedure and on proposals for amendments and additions to the proposed agenda of the session. 1. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the draft law amending and supplementing the law on gambling, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 7 April 2000, should be considered after an urgent procedure. I ask the MPs to set up a quorum to place their cards in MPs' units. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to consider, after an urgent procedure, the draft law amending and supplementing the law on gambling. For 168, eight against, no one was abstentioned, seven voted, 183 MPs were present in the room. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. 2. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that following an urgent procedure, the draft law on the final budget of the Republic of Serbia for 1999, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 4 April 2000. I ask the MPs to set up a quorum to place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am putting on the vote by the government of the Republic of Serbia to consider, after an urgent procedure, the draft law on the final account of the Republic of Serbia's 1999 budget. 172 MPs voted in favour, 10 against, no one was abstentioned, one was not voted, 183 was present in the O.R. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. 3. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the draft decision on the final budget of the Autonomous Region of Kosovo and Metohija for 1999, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 4 April 2000, be considered after an urgent procedure. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am putting on the vote by the government of the Republic of Serbia to consider, after an urgent procedure, the draft decision on the final budget of the Autonomous Region of Kosovo and Metohija for 1999. For 172, nine voted against, no one was abstentioned, three did not vote, 184 MPs were present in the hall. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. 4. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the draft decision on the establishment of immovable cultural goods of exceptional importance, which it submitted to the National Court on 7 April 2000, should be considered after an urgent procedure. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to consider, by emergency procedure, a proposal for a decision on the establishment of fixed cultural goods of exceptional importance. I declare that 174 MPs voted in favour of the proposal, against eight, no one was abstention, five were not voting, 187 was present in the O.R. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. A group of 71 MPs of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group suggested that the agenda be complemented by the agenda -- the election of vice-presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am putting to the vote a proposal by a group of 71 MPs of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group to supplement this session's agenda -- the election of vice-presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. For 179, no one is against, five abstentions, seven did not vote, 191 MP present in the hall. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Proposals to expand the agenda. The Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group has proposed that this session's agenda be complemented by the agenda -- a proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? He doesn't want to. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group to supplement the agenda of this session with the point: the proposal for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The proposal was voted in 177, against four, abstained from voting one, seven did not vote, a total of 89 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the draft law amending and supplementing the law on gambling, the draft law on the final budget of the Republic of Serbia for 1999, the draft decision on the implementation of the Kosovo and Metohija Autonomous Region budget for 1999 and the proposal for a decision on the establishment of fixed cultural goods of exceptional importance as the fourth, fifth, sixth and seventh points of the agenda. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to make the draft amending and supplementing law on gambling, the draft law on the final budget of the Republic of Serbia for 1999, the Proposal for a decision on the final account of the Kosovo Autonomous Region and Metohija budget for 1999, and the Proposal for a decision to identify immovable cultural goods of exceptional importance as the fourth, fifth, sixth and seventh points of the agenda. For 169 against nine, no one abstained from the vote, 14 did not vote, a total of 192 MPs were present in the hall. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, all adopted new points shall be included in the agenda in accordance with the order of their proposal, i.e. acceptance. The proposals for acts adopted as new points of the agenda by the competent committees, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, if they have not already done so, will submit their report, or an opinion, during the course of the session. Since we have come to the conclusion of all the proposals for amending and supplementing the agenda, I ask the MPs to declare themselves on the agenda in general. I'm putting a vote on the draft agenda of the session in general. For 175 MPs, against nine, no one abstained from voting, four did not vote, 188 is present in the hall. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, established the agenda of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2000, in general. I ask the National Assembly's service to prepare the consolidated text of the session's agenda and hand it over to the MPs. We are going to work on the established agenda of the session. National MP Marijan Risticevic advertises the violation of the rules of procedure. He has the word of Ambassador Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-04-11-0.u1929	Dear People's MPs, we, as the parliamentary group of the Vojvodina Coalition, have proposed a dozen or 12 additions to the agenda. The president missed telling you. We have submitted proposals to supplement the agenda according to the business procedure. We submitted this to the president of the National Assembly on time before the session began. This is a drastic violation of the Rules of Procedure at our expense, which is not the first time. Also, I don't know if there are, as part of the agenda, parliamentary issues at this session, which is the business obligation of the First Session of the First Regular Session.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-04-11-0.u1930	Thank you. The MP advertised the breach of the Rules of Procedure because more than one item of the agenda was proposed. In order for the items to be placed on the agenda, appropriate procedures must pass. The proposals mentioned by the MP have not been discussed by the committees responsible. When the committees are considered, they will be on the agenda. Hence, there is no breach of the rules of procedure and there is no need to declare the congregation. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: - MEETING OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA You have been served with a proposal from the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia to elect a member of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I ask the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mirko Marjanovic, to explain the proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-04-11-0.u1931	Dear President, honourable MPs, as you have been informed, Professor Jovo Todorovic resigned for health reasons as Minister of Education. Allow me to thank Professor Jovi Todorovic as Prime Minister for his work so far, for this extremely responsible job, and to wish him much success in his work and personal life. As Minister of Education, I propose Professor Milivovo Simonovic, born 1951, a graduate engineering engineer, professor of the University of Belgrade Engineering, former Deputy Minister of Education. I am convinced that Professor Milivove Simonovic, in light of his previous work engagement, will contribute even more effectively to the work of the government and the Ministry of Education. That is why I propose that you elect Professor Milivovo Simonovic as Minister of Education in the Government of the National Unity of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-04-11-0.u1932	I thank President Marjanovic. I am opening a debate on the Prime Minister's proposal to elect a Minister of Education in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since nobody's answering my word, I'm closing the search and we're moving on to a decision. Before we move to a decision, I remind you that Article 187. The Rules of Procedure on a proposal to elect members of the government of the Republic of Serbia decide in general by a secret vote, unless the National Assembly decides to vote publicly. Is there a proposal to vote publicly on the Prime Minister's proposal to elect the Minister of Education in the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Life of Cvetkovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-04-11-0.u1933	In order to be effective in the work of the Assembly, I propose that the selection of the Minister of Education be carried out by a public vote, by electronic means.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-04-11-0.u1934	Thank you. You heard the proposal of MP of the Life of Cvetkovic. I ask the MPs to place their cards in the MPs' units, because this proposal must be made known by the Assembly. We have a quorum. I am putting on the vote by MP Live Cvetkovic to decide on a proposal from the Prime Minister for the election of the Minister of Education in the Government of the Republic of Serbia by a public vote - using an electronic voting system. For 174, no one, with two abstentions, voted 10, a total of 186 MPs in the hall. I find that the National Assembly decided by majority that a proposal by the Prime Minister for the election of the Minister of Education in the Government of the Republic of Serbia should be voted publicly - using an electronic voting system. Since the National Assembly has decided to vote publicly on the Prime Minister's proposal to elect the Minister of Education in the Government of the Republic of Serbia - using an electronic voting system - I remind you, according to Article 92(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 187(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the decision to elect members of the Government, is considered adopted if voted for by the majority of the total number of MPs. Before joining the vote, I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am voting on a proposal from the Prime Minister to elect the Minister of Education in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. For 179, against four, abstentions, no one voted three, a total of 186 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly chose most of the votes, i.e. by 179 votes, which represents most of the total number of MPs, as Minister of Education in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Professor Milivovo Simonovic. Let me congratulate Professor Milivoj Simonovic on his election as Minister of Education in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, on your and your behalf. I request the elected member of the Government, Minister of Education, in accordance with Article 6. The Law on the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to approach to take the oath. [[Applause]] "I swear that in my work I will abide by the Constitution and the law and that I will perform the duties of a member of the government with responsibility and security. "I ask the elected Minister of Education in the Government to sign and submit the text of the oath. We move to item 2 of the agenda: - Proposal for a law on the election of federal deputies to a larger republic of the Federal Assembly you have adopted the bill, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. [[Applause]] You have received amendments submitted by MPs Marjan Risticevic and Tomislav Markovic on the bill. You received notice from MP Tomislav Markovic to withdraw his amendments to the bill. You have received the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on amendments by MP Marjan Risticevic. You have received reports from the Committee on Justice and Administration, which has adopted the bill, in principle and in particular, and is proposing to the National Assembly to adopt it in the proposed text. You have received a report from the Legislative Committee, which adopted the bill in principle and in particular. I'm opening a principled search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? Yeah. ) The word is made by Professor Ratko Markovic, Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-04-11-0.u1935	Mr. President, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this bill is from the field of constitutional law. Such laws are built upon and written by the Constitution. No matter what this law is passed by ordinary, legislative procedure, it enters the law category over the laws. It establishes the body which adopts the laws and, in part, determines the procedure under which the law is adopted. The draft law fulfils the order of the federal constitutionalist of the Republic legislation, Article 81 of Article 81(2) of the Federal Constitution, which says: "The election and termination of the mandate of the Federal MPs in the Greater Republic of the Federal Assembly shall be governed by the law of the Republic of the Member". The absence of the law is also an unconstitutional state and the existence of an unconstitutional law. That is why Serbia was obliged to uphold the federal constitution by passing the law. However, the bill also respects the legal understanding of the Federal Constitutional Court, which, I quote, "the representation of the Republic of the Member is the representation of the Republic in its entirety, i.e. the representation of, above all, the political will of its citizens, which established power in that republic in the elections for its assembly, i.e., the representation of all its particularities and interests". The Federal Constitutional Court's decision of 20 November 1999. The Republic legislator has the freedom to define himself as one of the, parallel constitutional law, known ways of electing federal unit MPs to the federal parliament's upper house, where federal units are represented. According to the current law of Serbia, by 20 November last year, these MPs were not directly elected by citizens, although it was legally possible, but the Republic Parliament, first according to the system of proportionate representation of parliamentary parties, and after the change of the law, the majority system. However, the latest composition of Serbian representatives in the Greater Republic was composed by an inter-party agreement by parliamentary parties, according to their relative representation system. The Federal Constitutional Court has established, in its own initiative to assess the constitutionality of the Republic's law, that although the Republic independently regulates the organisation of authorities and independently regulates the selection and termination of the mandate in the Greater Republic, it must do so within the framework of the system of organisation of state and human and civil rights set out in the Federal Constitution. As the republican legislator was defined as an electoral system of proportionate representation, it had to extend until the election of representatives of the Republic to the Greater Republic for the Federal Parliament, when it was already defined for the indirect elections of those representatives by the Republic of Parliament. Otherwise, the Republic would not be represented in the Council, but rather as a political majority in its Assembly. The Federal Constitutional Court also held that the provision in the Republic law on the possibility of impeachment in the Republic Parliament of federal MPs, which the same parliament chose as its representatives from its midst, was unconstitutional. These MPs cannot be the pronouns of their parliaments, who freely have their mandate as each owner, but have become the new institution with its own mandate. By drawing up a new law that respects the federal constitutional court's legal understanding, Serbia has confirmed the priority of the federal legal order and federal institutions and thus its loyalty to the federal state. In the bill of law, it is precisely a fundamental feature that representatives of the Republic are elected to a system of proportionate representation, i.e. "proportional party assembly of MPs in the National Assembly", Article 5(1). It's a bill of law. The power of the National Assembly to determine the number of MPs in the Greater Republic, elected from the order of a single parliamentary group in the National Assembly, is not an independent and essential one, as represented in certain means of communication, but only technical authority. The President of the National Assembly only declares that number, which has established a verifiable and accessible accounting operation, is the professional service of the National Assembly. The MP can only vote for as many candidates within the parliamentary group as the MPs are elected in the Greater Republic of that parliamentary group, and otherwise his ballot is invalid. In order for the selection of representatives not to be in the exclusive possession of parliamentary groups in the National Assembly, in order to be part of the National Assembly, the bill stipulates that "the proposal by the parliamentary group is valid if it contains a number of candidates double the number of MPs in the Greater Republic elected from the order of that parliamentary group" Article 11(1). It's a bill of law. This bill sets out that the standard laid down in Article 80 of the Constitution of the Third Federal Constitution, under which the Greater Republic consists of 20 federal MPs from the Republic of the Republic, is the constitutional obligation of the Republic to provide for the selection of all those twenty MPs. The figure of twenty, in other words, must be fulfilled, and it is up to the Republic legislator to provide it. In this draft law, it was achieved by reducing the possibility of not proposing candidates for Members of the Greater Republic by parliamentary groups or by being unwarranted by the absence of a majority of MPs who have proposed a list of candidates for Members of the Council of the Republic, to question the selection of all twenty MPs. In such cases, the number of MPs elected from the order of parliamentary groups who tabled proposals made in accordance with the law, or from the order of parliamentary groups whose MPs attend the session at which their election is held. The Members of Parliament will establish, in proportion to the number of MPs that a certain parliamentary group has in the National Assembly, by the extent that the number of MPs elected from the ranks of MPs who have tabled proposals made in accordance with the law, or from the order of parliamentary groups whose MPs attend the session of the National Assembly to which their election is being held. (Article 16(1) and (2)) Proposal for a law). With this solution, the National Assembly struggles against obstruction, disorderly conduct and failure of parliamentary duties. Being a MP is the right to represent the electoral body in the legislative body, but at the same time also the duty to represent the electoral body. The minimum parliamentary duty is for the MP to attend the session of the representative's body. The standard laid down in Article 22(1) is also directed against obstruction. The bill, under which "candidate candidates from the parliamentary group who received the largest number of votes within the number of MPs elected from the parliamentary group were elected to MPs". Acting in accordance with the legal opinion of the Federal Constitutional Court, the bill lays down the basis for the termination of the term of office of a Member in the Council of the Republic before the time he was elected, in agreement with the nature of this House of Parliament as an independent body of the federal state, not as a joint body of federal units, i.e. the Republic of a Member State. This means that there is no possibility of impeachment as an instrument of the government of the Republic of Parliament over the mandate of a federal MP in the Federal Parliament's Greater Republic. The expression of independence and will of the federal parliament and at the same time its subjectivity is also the norm set out in Article 31. The bill, under which "the ambassadors to the Greater Republic cease their term of office by verifying the mandate of MPs in the Greater Republic elected under the provisions of the law. "As in the National Assembly "the day of the end of the term of office of MPs in the Council of the Republic is established at the first next session of the National Assembly, upon receipt of notice of reasons for the termination of the Members' term of office", Article 28(3). It's a bill of law. Finally, the bill sets out the full protection of the electoral procedure for selecting MPs in the Greater Republic, both lines of protection - by the administrative line, i.e. by objecting to the Commission for the selection of MPs in the Greater Republic, which shall be submitted within 24 hours of the submission of the Commission's report on the results of the elections, by the Commission being obliged to notify its decision to the objector within 48 hours of receipt of the complaint - Article 25. It's a bill of law. Court line, i.e. By filing an appeal to the Supreme Court of Serbia, which is submitted through the Commission within 48 hours of the decision being made, by the Commission being obliged to submit within 24 hours of receipt of the appeal to the Supreme Court of Appeal and all necessary documents. Serbia's Supreme Court is obliged to make the appeal decision no later than 48 hours after the appeal. This is where the protection of the electoral procedure is terminated and suspended, as "the decision taken in the appeal procedure is legal and cannot be filed against it for an emergency review of the court's decision, nor is the request for a re-trial provided for by law governing the procedure in administrative disputes", Article 27. It's a bill of law. This puts the point of the legality of the electoral procedure for electing MPs to the Greater Republic within the short term, refuseing the obstruction of the election and contributing to the faster institutionalisation of the federal state. Gentlemen, if this bill is adopted in the National Assembly - elections for MPs in the Greater Republic, according to its provisions, will take place within 15 days of the date of its entry into force. The government of the Republic of Serbia is proposing to the National Assembly to adopt this bill, as its adoption will not only fulfill our Republic's duty to the Federation but also build up and round up our parliamentary and federal institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-04-11-0.u1936	Thank you. Do any of the MPs want a word? There's a word from MP Dragan Veselinov.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-04-11-0.u1937	Mr. President of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is a good thing we honor our deceased MPs at these sessions, regardless of which parties they are from. But I would like to remind you that on today, exactly one year ago, a well-known journalist, Slavko Curuvija, was killed and that by today, the police minister, or police, had not made a single move to inform the public who was standing... [[growls]]
ParlaMint-RS_2000-04-11-0.u1938	I'm asking Mr. Veselinov to stick to the agenda, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-04-11-0.u1939	I call on all the MPs who want to defend freedom of information in this country, democracy, to pay tribute to Slavko Curuvija for a minute of silence. (Glasses - take away his word. (Laughter) Praise him.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-04-11-0.u1940	Mr. Vesenov, please stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-04-11-0.u1941	And how I'm holding up. The government of the Republic of Serbia has today submitted a bill on the election of MPs to the Greater Republic. We are convinced that this law is nothing more than an intra-municipal coup, which will again be done to strengthen that ideology and political pressure in the Federal Assembly, which represents a three-way pact composed of the Socialist Party of Serbia, the Yugoslav United Left and the Serbian Radical Party. On one side, there will be an increase in pressure in the Federal Assembly in Montenegro not to redefine relations in the Yugoslav community, but to strengthen nationalistic and large-serb pressure on Montenegro, while at the same time allowing this assembly, regardless of the party's composition, the Assembly itself, according to its will, in accordance with the majority of which the three-nation MPs choose, so that no MP from any opposition party can easily happen. It is explicitly foreseen by this law and such a possibility. We here want to point to the great political dangers of this law. We are convinced that, given the right of this assembly to act without respecting the election will of the citizens, by the decisions of the majority, regardless of the actual party composition of this assembly, then this assembly will be able to eliminate those parties in the Federal Assembly who advocate redefine relations in Serbia itself. And that also means the Vojvodina Coalition, which is struggling to change the political system in Serbia. We cannot allow the president of the Serbian Parliament to determine the list of candidates the parties want to send to the Greater Republic. We cannot allow the National Assembly to decide by voting whether MPs will leave a party in the Greater Repulsion or not, or to decide which MPs from which parties they can go to the Greater Republic and which ones they do not, as provided for in this law. We cannot agree with the right of any commission in this assembly to decide on the composition, or to propose that composition to this assembly, and that in that committee, the president of the National Assembly, in the case of a road map, an equal number of votes, has the right to judge his vote at that time, practically having the power of two votes. We wouldn't stay around this law much and talk about this law failing the election will of citizens in our country, I would talk more about it if I were sure that at this point others could hear us except you. But right now, I've just been reported, again we've been cut off from the people. The people can't hear what we're thinking, and that doesn't mean anything but that this congregation is afraid of its people and that they don't want the word to be criticized, the alternatives and the other look in it. [[growls]] Of course we will vote against this law, because this law is the biggest threat to internal relations in Serbia and relations with Montenegro. This law will make relations worse both in the Yugoslav community and in the political structure of our community in the state of Serbia. With this law, nothing else can happen except the continuation of the country's dwindling rule of the three-way pact, and with it it is likely that, with this pact, we hope that, in the near future, after the change of political forces in the country, it will also highlight the pillar of shame of a pointless attempt to strengthen relations with coups, dictatorships, assassinations and other means in the country.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-04-11-0.u1942	He has the word Vojislav Seselj, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-04-11-0.u1943	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are often in a position to discuss certain laws, especially those of systemic character, we are actually having a debate on moral issues. He had to be very important in politics, and even in those cases where a particular political party breaks him the most, such as Dragan Veselinov's party. Even a complete moral negative, such as Vesenov, who has shown himself in this case in such a light, is the subject of a moral political debate. The man who comes out for the National Assembly's pay phone and is already in the beginning making a scandal, asks the National Assembly to honor a notorious criminal like Slavko Curuvija, it's already a scandal over scandals. Tomorrow, someone from the Serbian Renewal Movement will come out to ask us to honor Chandi, because they wrote in the posthumous newspaper on their municipal board, whether in Rakovica, Chukarica, where else, that Chanda was the best among them. He used to be their best, a criminal of a larger caliber, Gishka. And as many as they have such criminals, we will honor them so much. Slavko Curuvija didn't die as a journalist. He was killed as a criminal in a criminal conflict with one another. Of course, we all want the police to shed light on that murder as soon as possible, and the murder of all other people, including criminals. Because no civilized society is allowed unpunished to kill criminals. But in our case, in conditions of this kind of rush on the outside, in terms of this economic situation, and crime takes much more form and dimension than it would be in some normal, economic, social, political situation. As for the state, when Curuvia broke the law, we dealt with him institutionally. He came under criminal sanctions, possibly criminal sanctions, he was even sentenced to about five or six months in prison, as I recall. And the moment the state no longer presented any problem, when the state proved through the legal order that it could not unpunish the kind of dirtyest journalism that Curuvius had ever done, that was the end of the problem for us. For someone else, however, Curuvija was obviously still a problem, and the other one liquidated him, whether because of outstanding debts, outstanding debts, whether because of some promises, etc., we hope that one day the police will clarify it. But you who constantly put every such criminal in front of you are talking about your morale, your moral character, your party's morality. I come to work this morning, and every day when I get out on the highway, there's a Canda-Ivica board. There's a real remark here that the department's responsible doesn't finally stop it once. As long as I have to see the name of this criminal every day, who's been liquidated in each other's criminal gangs' accounts, and how long will they dictate some objective living conditions to their footmen now? When it comes to this law, which is on the agenda, I think we're passing a pretty good law. I'm not going to say it on purpose in some superlative -- best or perfect. First, there is no perfect law, and in this case it would be much better and more appropriate for democratic principles to pass a law that would go to direct elections and MPs for the Greater Republic, in the same way that elections are being held for the Greater Citizens. However, there would be one intervention in the federal constitution, and there is obviously no need for political will now, political consent, etc. In the conditions in which the republics themselves prescribe that MPs will be elected to the Greater Republic of the Federal Assembly and in which the electoral base for the conduct of this type of election is the National Assembly of the Federal Unit, I think that this legal solution has maximum respect for the Federal Constitution and the elemental democratic principles. The election base is the National Assembly of the Federal Unit. The National Assembly elects MPs from its MPs for the Greater Republic of the Federal Assembly, the quota is set by the federal constitution - 20 from each federal unit, as a principle of proportionality, we choose from certain political parties of 20 MPs, which will represent Serbia as a federal unit in the Federal Assembly's upper home. Now, the question is raised -- will we leave on the basis of the principle of proportionality to the parties themselves to fully autonomously determine which MPs they will be, or will the Assembly, as the highest authority and decision-making of the Republic of Serbia, decide on its own, on the basis of a proposal from parliamentary groups and respecting the principle of proportionality. On the side of the elemental democratic principles, it is this other variant, therefore, that MP groups propose that we respect the internal quota, proportionality, and that this is not a matter of political parties, because they are not a factor of government in any democratic society or in our own, but is a factor in the rule of the National Assembly. Where the National Assembly is unable to choose between several alternatives, this elemental democratic principle is not respected. We mean that also in opposition parties, MPs who trust their political parties are not particularly important to them whether Marko or Janko will be elected as MPs to the Greater Republic. It is proposed twice as much as it is elected, and it is a matter of the National Assembly that among these proposed voters, which will really represent the Republic of Serbia as a federal unit at the federal level of government, and why would there be any problems? As regards the principle of proportionality, each parliamentary group or several parliamentary groups, which comprises at least 12 Members, shall be entitled to one term of office. We cannot grieve now and shed crocodile tears over those parties who do not have so many MPs, nor did the people want you, nor did the people give you enough votes. It's not our fault. On the other hand, these conditions apply to all political parties and we want all political parties to participate in the elections, that all political parties, proportionate to their strength in the Republic Assembly, be represented in the Greater Republic of the Federal Assembly. If some party won't, what can we do? We hope that the SPO will change its mind by next session and that it will show up, break up its irrational boycott, that the SPO MPs will come to the National Assembly of Serbia, propose their candidates and that MPs will be represented in the Federal Assembly's Greater Republic. Here things are all crystal clear and clear. We also want the Montenegrin National Assembly to follow this positive example of the Republika Srpska Assembly and also to regulate the issue in a similar way, in order to make the election of a new assembly of MPs in the Greater Republic of Montenegro. There is one question here that is often raised in public debates in the media -- that earlier is not an adequate choice of MPs in the Greater Republic is not an argument to challenge the current legal project, but an argument to its affirmation. The fact that we haven't chosen properly before is now not proof that this legal project is no good. The current legal project is good, we haven't seen a fundamental remark from any of the amendments yet that could in principle challenge it. These amendments, which have been submitted, are mainly a matter of irrational and unreasonable wishes from some MPs and their parties, rather than something challenging the legislative project. This time, the bill is so legal that it's really impossible from the point of view of the right to challenge some more credible arguments.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-04-11-0.u1944	Thank you. He has the word Dragan Vesenov, a National MP, wants a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-04-11-0.u1945	I, with extreme discomfort, listen to Vojislav Seselj when he talks about morality, because I don't see what he has to learn. Despite stopping for a pay phone to warn some that they should be dealing with political morality, although I don't believe that Seselj read any book that deals with it, otherwise he wouldn't talk like this, he immediately called a man, even though the deceased, unable to defend himself, a criminal. It's an insult you've done, it's an elemental insult to political morality. That's what you do. Secondly, you immediately know who was involved in that shootout, you say-- criminal gangs. First you called Curuvia a criminal. When was he convicted or convicted as a criminal? Never. So that's an insult. You claimed that he was the victim of criminal charges - how do you know that? You're a member of the government, if that's what you're saying, then go public with it, tell me who's the hit man, who's the perpetrator of that murder. Don't hide, don't give us a lecture on morality, and hide the assassins and the orderlies at the same time. Third, you are here saying that by adopting this law on election of Members to the Greater Republic, the National Assembly will, apparently, contribute to the right to strengthen the representation of our citizens' will in the Greater Republic. How--I ask you how? If no opposition party from this assembly will go to the Greater Republic because of this law, the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians will not leave, the Voivodina Coalition will not leave, and the other parties will not leave by law, and the SPO does not have to leave if it boycotts this assembly. We cannot assess whether a party does well politically or not if it boycotts the session of this assembly. That's their thing. Let the voters decide that. But to rule the rights of all opposition parties, given the ongoing policy they are leading, to go to the Federal Assembly, to ask the issue of Slobodan Milosevic's resignation there, to ask the issue of constitutional redefining Serbia's relations with Montenegro, to ask the question of redefining Serbia's political system and relations with Vojvodina, that is the goal of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-04-11-0.u1946	He has the word Dr. Vojislav Seselj, Deputy Prime Minister, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-04-11-0.u1947	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've read enough books in ethics as philosophical discipline, in moral sociology, and in Serbian history I've read so much that I can never become a traitor. And Dragan Vesenov didn't honor either and perhaps because of that, and perhaps because of lack of family education, family education agrees to be a traitor and at every moment Serbian enemies run abroad, sometimes in Hungary, sometimes in any country, from which they sent bombs and missiles against our children. He who is willing to serve the enemy of his people and his country is immoral. Betrayal is the highest form of immorality. Above treason there is nothing more immoral. As far as Curuvia is concerned, you can stretch it to your will. Being a criminal doesn't indicate a particular crime, because our courts don't judge people because they're criminals. You know you're a criminal of the worst kind, a political criminal, a traitor. But to be convicted, it is not enough that political qualification, but to say -- it is condemned and it is a concrete crime. And whether you will be prosecuted or not depends on the policy of prosecution, for whoever is authorized to persecute you will judge what is now greater harm or benefit for society. Putting you in jail is no use. Let you continue to commit these immoral methods and crimes of treason for society cannot be harmful, for in this country everyone lives knows who you are and what you are. You can't convince anyone to follow you, nor can you do us any real damage. As far as Slavko Curuvia is concerned, the notorious fact is that he was a criminal. And those newspapers, which he printed, represented a septic cave of Serbian journalism, something worst, something unrecorded, worse than "Balkan Express", worse than that pre-war Cicwaric's "Balkan". By order, false lies were launched, lies. I guess we all know that. It's a notorious fact. Things that all people know don't have to be proven because they're notorous facts. It's like if I told you now -- it's day or -- now the lights are on. It's a notorious fact. Why would I prove to you that there's a light in this hall when everyone sees it? They also saw Slavko Curuvija as the dirtiest possible journalist, underpaid to launch lies, fiction and serve the enemies of his people. That's the facts. And he was tried for it. He didn't get to go to jail by accident. And what would make me particularly tangled here? Of course, I'm not looking forward to anyone's death, every death is sad, a man had some family, some friends who mourned him, but I can't take care of his death, when Serb children are killed on the other hand under the carpets of American bombs. I guess it's something harder that got us there. And who gets to think more about Curuvia now, and why would they, after all? As far as this law, which you so unwittingly dispute, you say, there will be no opposition party represented in the United Republic of the Federal Assembly. Why? We want it to be. The Serbian Renewal Movement has the right to at least four MPs in the Greater Republic, if it participates in the proposal. And I publicly call again on the Serbian Renewal Movement, no matter what it thinks, won a number of votes in the past elections, they have the opportunity, they have the right to propose candidates for the Greater Republic. They offer eight, so the National Assembly will choose four. Since your party has only a few terms of office, so you can't have an MP, that's your problem. Don't call on the Union of Duke Hungarians. Here, I publicly offer them, I don't know how many, four or five MPs, to join only these electoral groups of the Serbian Radical Party and we guarantee them at least one term. No matter what they think of Kasa and his party's politics. We did it in the last election. Here in the National Assembly we had the right to two vice presidents and we said, "Here, we leave one place to the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians, so Istvan Ispanovich is elected." When he resigned, we twice called from this pay phone to the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians to propose a new candidate. We also felt that it should be from the redistributory national minority to continue to be vice president of the National Assembly. They wouldn't. We have proposed from the ranks of the Serbian Radical Party of MEPs of Bulgarian Nationality. He should sometimes also be a representative of the Bulgarian Nationality Vice-President of the Assembly. In the next term from other nationalities, and Slovakia, and Romania, and Russia, and Bunjevac, and Shockac, and Roma and Muslim religions. It's a matter of a thoughtful policy of national and religious tolerance. So we did the same for the Greater Republic of the Federal Assembly, and then we had the right to account for seven MPs. And there is one place set up for the Alliance of the Duke Hungarians. Now that we've changed the law, there's no need to give anything up. We are offering the Alliance of Dukes of Hungarians to join the Serbian Radical Party only now, once again, on the election of MPs for the Greater Republic, and here, I now guarantee them as president of the party that they will have one mandate in the Greater Republic. That way other parties can solve their problems. Perhaps Veselinov can join the SPO and replace the Serbian Movement with the number of parliamentary mandates it needs, that instead of four, there are five MPs, e.g. It's theoretical, and now you see what you can do, what you can't. This offer, which I have presented to you to the Alliance of Dukes of Hungarians, I still cannot direct, nasty and disgustingly, Mr. Veselinov.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-04-11-0.u1948	He has the word National MP Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-04-11-0.u1949	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've been listening to stories of honesty for the last few minutes. Who about what, Seselj about honesty. That is why, as a proposal to supplement the agenda, our proposal, the "Vojvodina Coalition" - the bill on the investigation of the origin of the property has not been passed, nor has it been put in place under the business procedure as a proposal to supplement the agenda, which was mandatory. Only with a summer review of this draft law on selecting MPs in the Greater Republic can it be easily concluded on the real intentions of the legislator. The legislator's intention is to secure the position of SRJ President Slobodan Milosevic through this law, through which you should choose a similar delegation of 20 MPs to the Greater Republic. The fear of a possible defeat in the election for the Greater Citizens has led you to provide such a law at least paralysis in the Greater Republic of the Federal Assembly. It's the fortification of the untouchableness of the government and of your commander-in-chief. Under this bill, the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is empowered to determine the number of MPs elected from the ranks of MPs for the Greater Republic. Well, that's not even in the bamboo republics. According to that logic, the president of the National Assembly could have chosen all 20 MPs and writtenly informed about it. That would save us the way and the daisies. We must frame this provision and hang it on this Parliament's wall as the greatest democratic achievement in the history of parliamentaryism. I believe this is the fruit of a recent visit and specialization by the president of the Iraqi National Assembly. We of the Vojvodina Coalition are today's communist tragics. From Marks and Lenin, they reached Gaddafi and Hussein. Recently, when the foreign minister was visiting some African states, I don't even know their name, I couldn't sleep for seven days. I was afraid he'd eat it. But, therefore, Mr. Todorovic, I would like you to. [[They wouldn't eat you. They would not eat such a thing.]] You've got something to eat. I don't have it. Under this bill, the election of MPs to the Greater Republic depends on three things. The first is the goodwill of the president of the National Assembly. The second thing is the number of MPs in the National Assembly. We have proposed from the Vojvodina Coalition that the number of MPs depends on the number of votes the political parties won in the last elections for the National Assembly. As suggested, some quota could be set by the president of the assembly would depend on the number of MPs, and that number is the product of an unfair electoral system. We from the Vojvodina Coalition needed 30.00 votes for one MP, and someone had enough 3,000. It's not just the number of votes, Mr. Seselj. At 113,000 votes, we received four MPs, and you received 30 in Kosovo. You lost Kosovo, and you kept the MPs from Kosovo. Thirty of them don't have as many votes as the three of us. You will now be at the expense of Kosovo, which you have lost and the MPs you have kept pushing two or three MPs into the Greater Republic to better protect the authority of the one who is most guilty of losing Kosovo. It shows and proves that you are not interested in territory and people. Except for the authorities, you're not interested in anything else. The territories on which he lost power were your write-offs. The law stipulates that on the day of the election, a parliamentary group whose MPs are absent from the session lose their right to vote. If this provision is constitutional, then I am the patriarch. The Constitution and the Rules of Procedure state that decisions and laws in the National Assembly are made when more than half of the MPs present vote for acts, provided that quorum exists. The constitution defines decisions made by a two-thirds majority. You have prescribed this bill that elections cannot be held in a parliamentary group whose majority of MPs are not in session, despite the fact that there is quorum in the National Assembly. You have introduced the quorum of parliamentary groups into the law, perhaps we have received a two-member parliament with a new larger - larger parliamentary groups. The bill was signed by no one but Ratko Markovic, who will be known as the famous constitutionalist and knowledgeer of the Constitution who did everything he was told to do. For us at the Vojvodina Coalition, this proposal is another treading of the Constitution by those who wrote it themselves, to ensure the unlimited power of one man over all. This is a clear sign that this government will defend itself by any unconstitutional means. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-04-11-0.u1950	He has the word of Deputy Prime Minister Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-04-11-0.u1951	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really think that Marijan Risticevic may be a patriarch, but the patriarch of this Nazarene religious sect belonging to Dragan Vesenov. Dragan Veselinov is a freak, Saturday. I guess you all know that. He publicly declared himself that way. At his church, Marijan Risticevic can be a patriarch. What a church, such a patriarch. We who run politics against religious sects, knowing that they are monstrous, associative, how they destroy social tissue, cannot even agree with their racism. Marijan Risticevic here says that Asian and African peoples are cannibals. Mr. Risticevic, the last case of recorded humanity happened in the United States. America and its NATO pact allies are man-eating countries. We are proud of our friendship with African, Asian and Arab countries. We are proud of our friendship with Saddam Hussein, Moamer Gaddafi, Assad and other friends from Arab countries. Who's our honest friend, he's shown himself in this mess. You, little, little, so run to Serb enemies. You want our friends to accuse them of being cannibals, and there are no more cannibals than your NATO pact allies, and in a literal sense, because America is so depraved that people and children are actually eating there and throwing much worse things through those satanic sects of theirs. One of these sects belongs to Dragan Vesenov. You accuse us of friendship with peoples who are proud and dignified, who have been colonized and tortured and who have been tirelessly released and prove by their courage that they deserve independence and sovereignty. As for the elections for the Greater Republic, you're talking about the number of votes in the election. This number of votes is through the electoral system, i.e. through the electoral law, materialized in the composition of this assembly. If we were to accept your logic that for the elections for the Greater Republic, we have to stick to the power ratio in the number of votes, then we would have to stick to that relationship in any vote of concrete laws in this assembly, and say, well, he's got so many votes, so he has the right to so many points in the vote, for example. The election was and ended according to a certain law. An election census has been applied. Almost every civilized democratic country in the world applies the electoral censorship. The materialization of these choices is this composition of the National Assembly. This relationship of power is crucial to further decision-making and decision-making. As for the composition of the Greater Republic, the Council should be proportionately built. We can't force someone to participate in these elections. We cannot allow the Serbian Renewal Movement to keep a boycott of the National Assembly without sending us a proposal from its candidates in the post. We're not gonna play like that. We will not vote for those who are not present. Make sure most of them are present. If there are 45 of them, have them set up at least 23 to come to the National Assembly and participate in the vote. No one will dispute their rights. As for Kosovo and Metohija, Kosovo and Metohija is temporarily occupied territory. Each occupation is a temporary functional state. This one, especially because the United Nations resolution guarantees its temporary character. I can't tell you how long it's gonna take, but one day it's got to end. Just because part of our territory is temporarily occupied doesn't mean that we will suspend all legal acts that were brought there until the occupation has occurred, or that we will challenge the rights of elected officials from that territory. In World War I, the entire territory of Serbia was occupied. Almost all MPs left Serbia. But it never occurred to anyone to dispute the status of the MP if they found themselves on Corfu, in Bizerta, France, Thessaloniki, etc. We also safeguard our legal continuity by recognising all the elections that have been made through the will of the people in both Kosovo and Metohija. We must continue to abide by our Constitution, our laws. We're holding elections based on the Constitution and the law. The next election must also be held for the territory. Whether someone's going to go to that election or not, that's his right. But elections must be held throughout Serbia, by our law and by our Constitution, and not by: eh, now that territory is occupied, there is a foreign administration, and we will throw out all MPs. Oh, don't! That's why we have more reason to guard these MPs, because they are also the testimony of our sovereignty in that territory.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-04-11-0.u1952	He has the word Marijan Rističević - replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-04-11-0.u1953	Mr. President, you should keep the authority of this assembly. These incursions of the Serbian Radical Party's MPs exceed every measure of good taste. Mr. Tomislav threw me that I'm a monkey. If I'm a monkey, sir, then what are you? Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, which is sad and sad, calls for MPs based on nationality, including religion. Now, Mr. Seselj, when I was a Serb, you were a communist, when I celebrated the glory, you celebrated Tito, when I believed in God, you believed in the party. You're proud of working with Gaddafi and Hussein, which he's ashamed of, and you're proud of it. You're complaining about Americans, you're telling us that they're giving us some help. You wrote letters to the American president offering your military aid and military aid to the Chetniks in the Iraqi-American Gulf War. You wanted to side with the Americans, against that same Hussein, whom you called a villain, a dictator, etc. And today you're receiving an Iraqi ambassador and understanding. Yeah, the Americans attacked Iraq's shit. You wanted to join them. And you wrote letters to American President George Bush. I'll get it for you. I didn't even know American President George Bush could have had his Monica Lavinski, only that he wanted to. What did you say you were kissing the American president? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-04-11-0.u1954	Vojislav Seselj, Deputy Prime Minister, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-04-11-0.u1955	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it has long been known who the main Monika Lavinski are in the Serb people. Marjan Risticevic, of course, follows their path. Monica Lavinski is all those who are willing to kiss certain parts of the body of American officials. They started at the hands of Madeline Albright, as far as they're gonna get, we'll see. As for the beginning of the American war against Iraq, there were many delusions in our public about the nature of that war. [[Laughter]] That's the fact that we, the radicals, publicly admitted, was the most public. Some others aren't so public. None of us knew Kuwait was Iraqi territory and that the English had taken Kuwait from the Iraqis, like the Americans took from us after they took the Serbian Krajina. And that's a fact. I never sent any letter to the American president, that's a lie. It's fiction. Of course, there was one initiative from our party, Valjev. Our party's former secretary, Aleksandar Stefanovic, ran into him like that, called a press conference in Valjevo and offered Americans help. What I did, in that case, was keep it from getting any bigger noises. All our public was influenced by American propaganda in 1990-1991, all of it. There was not a single man who did not follow that attitude, condemning Iraq. As far as I can remember, none of them. In the meantime, however, we learned and realized, and in particular we understood when a similar fate struck us, which hit the Iraqis. What does that mean? That morale tells politicians sometimes to make mistakes, to make mistakes, to keep them from falling apart. None of the people involved in politics are carefree. Never did we, the Serbian radicals, claim indifference. As soon as we realized, we saw, we changed our attitude radically. It didn't last long, maybe six months, about half of 1991. When I personally realized, when Jim Moody came to this same National Assembly, and he met with me, so I told him everything I thought about American politics, there was no illusion anymore. That one of us, Serbian radicals, but you who follow American politics and after the bombing of Serbia, are what kind of people are you? Where's your morale? I can understand until the bombing that you thought the American option was the best option, that the democratic option, that the option was economic development, etc. I can understand that. But after the bombing, following American politics, it's pure treason. Well, and enmity to your own people. What you used to mean, Mr. Risticevic, is absolutely unknown, whether or not you celebrated, it's your private business. Whether you were a communist or not, maybe you weren't, not because you didn't want to, but because they didn't want to see you. They kind of pushed me into that party because I stood out, like a student, like a student, and so on. It used to be according to certain criteria. Being a great student, it was kind of like a basic predetermination for a man to be involved in a single party. When I started thinking with my head, I emancipated from that party and got eight years in prison, Mr. Risticevic. I was sentenced to eight years in prison when the entire family of your party belonged to that party and to that worst sect of that party, the autonomial, the duchy. When she was working on the secession of a part of Serbia from the queen. That's when I rebelled. One of the elements of that rebellion was the opposition to the autonomy policy, because I asked for a review of Yugoslav federalism, and that's one of my points of the indictment. That's when you followed that path. It's no coincidence that you're in a political party that has no moral credibility. As Father Dragan Veselinov wanted to separate Vojvodina, that's what his son is doing today. My father left his son. The father failed, and the son hopes to succeed. It'll work, but it'll work tomorrow.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-04-11-0.u1956	National MP Dragan Veselinov, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-04-11-0.u1957	Today, Vojislav Seselj gave us a shorter course in knowledge of religion. I've got a zero. I didn't know you knew so little about religious currents. It doesn't matter which religious current I belong to. But it's very important to me that you don't distinguish the Nazarenes from the Adventist. [[Vojislav Seselj: 'What's this? Jagor. Tossing.]] Sit in the government of the Republic of Serbia, where there is a minister of religion, let him discuss the faith, if necessary. Don't you, you don't understand. Whichever I'm in, it's my private right, but in any way I'm in, I wouldn't be threatened by any anthem like you are at the Serbian Orthodox Church. [[Vojislav Seselj: 'In which?' From the bench.]] Take care of it. Everyone has the right to their religious feelings. In our country, religious groups, communities are even. That's where equality exists. By falling out on this assembly speaker, you've registered religious communities attacked and set out to disperse religious hatred. It's for the minister of faith's reaction if he wants to. For you, Mr. Seselj, it was good that you were at Law School, and the Theological would never have taken you. To learn more about faith. Perhaps it would be better if you were a skater at Drina, because there you would have had the opportunity to meet all those people you've driven out of Herzegovina, Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as from here. Well, then you'd learn from many and what Orthodoxy is, like mine, or you'd learn about other religious currents that exist. Don't touch religious equality, especially in Vojvodina. From the Peace of Westphalia, we call religious peace in Europe. Vojvodina is part of it, including Serbia. Do not encourage religious hatred, do not despise the public believers of other religious currents. You're not in either one, and they're in one.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-04-11-0.u1958	There is a word from MP Gorica Gajevic, head of the SPS parliamentary club.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-04-11-0.u1959	Dear President, honourable colleagues and fellow MPs, the SPS Club will support the bill that the Deputy Prime Minister here has explained in the best possible way. First of all, because this law is in agreement with the Constitution of the SRJ, and because of the fact that what we have already done in fact in the election of MPs to the Greater Republic of the Federal Assembly - we have applied a proportionate, proportionate system - now introduces it as a legal obligation. The law allows the majority and minority interests of this parliament to be expressed, allowing all political parties, proportionate to their strength, to enter the Greater Republic of the Federal Assembly. This current law did not allow, but our political maturity and democracy allowed us to have a proportionate representation in the Federal Parliament as well. What we have heard so far from certain MPs shows that they have not read the law or that what NATO's pact puts into their heads and as an opinion of itself should be an opinion of all things, shows that NATO's perpetrators and domestic traitors simply have to attack patriots and all those who are in the world opponents of the NATO Pact. Everything that's been said here, there's just no argument in the laws. I would like to hear what is the advantage of the law now in force in relation to the law that is proposed and what is less democratic in this law than what we are now applying. In this law, we could eliminate minority interest and small parties. For every mentally healthy man, on average educated, when he reads the law and hears Professor Ratko Markovic's explanation, it's all clear, only a missed topic among those programmed by NATO villains. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2000-04-11-0.u1960	There is a word from MP Milan Rodic, head of the Yugoslav left's parliamentary club.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-04-11-0.u1961	Dear President, the presidency, Prime Minister, members of the government, fellow MPs, the Yugoslav left parliamentary group supports the proposed law on the election of MPs to the Greater Republic of the Federal Assembly. The creation of conditions for the functioning of the federal state, on the constitutionally established principles, is one of the basic direction of operation of the Yugoslav Left. Hence, we estimate that this law directly contributes to a more complete and comprehensive achievement of the attributes of state authorities set up by the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. The proposed law creates conditions for the relative representation of all interests in this congregation. Detailed and clearly regulated electoral procedures, particularly with regard to the obligations and powers of the National Assembly president, the electoral commission, the voting method, with the precise setting of deadlines for electing MPs to the Greater Republic, paint the specific quality of the proposed law. Hence, it is no doubt that by adopting this regulation, the National Assembly is taking a significant step towards harmonising the republican laws with the federal constitution. As a special value, we highlight the part of the law that regulates the obligation of the parliamentary groups to attend the session at which the election is held. This removes the possibility for some of the parliamentary groups to first propose candidates, and then to be unjustly left behind from the session in which the election is being held. Such solutions in the most direct way establish the principle of responsibility for all parliamentary groups in their activities in the republican and federal institutions. MP groups that do not have an honest and real intention to participate in the work of the highest authority of the Yugoslav government cannot expect to interfere with the regular performance of the joint state on the basis of cheap executions. Dear People's MPs, as a party to the contemporary left of humanistic and patriotic orientation, the Yugoslav Left has focused its work on building, developing and constantly strengthening the Yugoslav Federation. We believe that state sovereignty is the basis of the survival and freedom of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and of all its citizens. Total developments in the premises of the previous Yugoslavia, especially NATO aggression and recent events in Republika Srpska, strengthen and confirm these beliefs. Every patriotic, yet well-intentioned citizen, it is clear that behind all the pressures and insults on our country and the Serb people stands NATO. Aggressive and now unhidden, under the auspices of the United Nations, depicted in SFOR and KFOR, the alliance wants to impose its own views on the whole world. These aspirations are characterized by the dictatorship of power, economic, cultural and spiritual enslavement of all free-minded and free-thinking countries and peoples. The aggression in Yugoslavia is the most impressive picture of such aspirations. The past and current events undoubtedly confirm that our republican and federal leadership in time and fully recognized the essence of the actions of the aggressors and their local expositions. Known developments in Yugoslav areas undoubtedly confirm that the Rambuje agreement led to the occupation and enslavement of our country and people. The blackmailes, threats and universal terror, with the loss of independence, freedom and breaking of the state community, were the essence of the document set out in the cape of the god's agreement. As the most eloquent evidence, this truth is served by examples of the criminal arrest of the most visible representatives of our people in Republika Srpska and the complete economic and life-threatening uncertainty of its citizens. The local and local so-called. real, unfortunately, Serbian politicians are either silent or insisting on explaining that all these actions are being carried out by SFOR for the purpose of God's implementation of the Dayton Agreement and creating certain conditions for development and strengthening confidence. By contrast, more and more often, even in the public of aggressor countries, they penetrate the knowledge that so-called The Rambuje deal and the merciful angel are nothing but a classic example of force and international terrorism. Unity and universal trust of the people and state leadership have shown that one, only conditionally speaking, a small country can preserve its freedom and dignity. Dear fellow Members of the People, we are in a position to make a significant contribution to further development and strengthening of the federal state on the constitutionally established principles by adopting the proposed legislative text. At the same time, by adopting this law, the National Assembly meets in the most direct manner the obligation to comply with the regulations with the Federal Constitution, with full respect for the decision and reputation of the Federal Constitutional Court. The passing of this law is no doubt a reflection of our clear and sincere desire for a stable, strong and orderly Yugoslav state. Therefore, in front of the Yugoslav left parliamentary group, I urge you to adopt a law on the election of federal MPs to the Greater Republic of the Federal Assembly. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2000-04-11-0.u1962	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? He has the word Stevo Dragisic, head of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary club.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-04-11-0.u1963	Ladies and gentlemen, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia is a federal state based on a parliamentary system of government. The Federal Constitution guarantees the equality of citizens and the equality of republics. Accordingly, the parliament of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia is composed of a Council of Citizens representing the will of citizens and the Greater Republic, which reflects the representation of the Republic of Yugoslavia, equal representation of more than twenty MPs representing the republics. It is important here to stress that these twenty MPs represent the republics, not the regimes that are in power in those republics. The law, which we are discussing today, which is meant to be elected by representatives of the Republic of Serbia in the Greater Republic, guarantees political parties a proportionate representation of the council over their representation in this House. The law guarantees that all political parties, which have MPs in this assembly, will also have a proportionate representation in the Greater Republic. In this way, the representation of the Republic of Serbia is guaranteed in terms of the will of citizens, which is expressed in the elections for parliament, i.e. for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In this way, the Federal Assembly, through the Greater Republic, will be able to hear the interests of all political parties that articulate the interests of their voters who voted for them. So, as far as the democratic character of this law is concerned, it is expressed in the highest possible way. As far as the Serbian Radical Party is concerned, the election for MPs in the Greater Republic can be made directly, but we believe that this way is not bad either, because it guarantees the representation of all political options that exist and that have certain support for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The basic problem is something else. The problem is that by guaranteeing the equality of the republic, the Federal Constitution determines that decisions in the Federal Assembly are made by adopting that decision in both larger and larger. In the Greater Republic, decisions are made by an absolute majority of votes, therefore, with 21 votes in favour. Which means that for one decision, the consent of MPs representing the Republic of Serbia and representing the Republic of Montenegro must be ensured. If we were to vulgarize the representation of the republics and bring them down to the representation of the regime, then we would be in a situation of blockade of the work of the Federal Assembly. There would be a blockade of the federal government's work, which individual decisions must make before the federal parliament. This is the essence of the dispute against this law, as the federal constitutional court also had the same objections in the way MPs were elected in the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Montenegro. If we respect the federal state, if we remain behind the will we expressed when we formed a federal state, both republics, both members of the Federation must respect the decision of the federal constitutional court. The Republic of Serbia is doing it right this time. However, those who would like to lead to a blockade of the federal state's work through a blockade of the federal assembly, of course, find any formal reasons to challenge the law. There's no formal reason. The bottom line is something else and the opponents and the opponents of this law don't want to talk. We believe that the adoption of this law guarantees representation to all political parties, guaranteeing the democratic principle of election of MPs to the Greater Republic, and those who have valid reasons, valid arguments to vote against this law, should also speak of it, rather than speak in general, with rhetoric heard continuously through the media that are directly controlled by the NATO Pact.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-04-11-0.u1964	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? Here you go. There's a word from MP Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-04-11-0.u1965	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, I am neither the head of the parliamentary club nor the group. It's our fault, because when we went to the election, we defined ourselves to a party that we barely got this one mandate, right there in Chukarica where I am. So it's no one's fault that we don't have a Parliament club, because we should have opened our eyes when we go out to elections with which people we go to elections and choose patriots and not traitors. This time safely and hopefully we will never come out in a coalition with a Democratic alternative, including other parties that are in the same direction, or directed as a Democratic alternative. I wouldn't go in, this was a bit of a joke, because we peasants like to joke, in a replica, I wouldn't go in with anyone, but I would go in a replica, honourable MPs, with many five-collars, enemies and bandits in this beautiful society of ours, the country that asked me not to come to the session. I have been demoted by a house, a vehicle, in order not to declare the position of our coalition, the Peasant Party of Serbia and the United Pension Party on the proposal for a law on the election of federal MPs to the Greater Republic. Namely, I would like to say that at the council of the coalition of the Peasant Party of Serbia and the United Pension Party, I say we do not have a parliamentary club, it is for us for now the highest forum, we have sat down and discussed from member to member of the proposed law for the election of MPs to the Greater Republic of the Federal Assembly. Unfortunately, everyone has the right to their own opinion, so do we, and no one can stand in our way, we believe that the proposed law has done what is most important, to avoid obstruction of the work of the Federal Assembly, which I think is in this whole rebuttal of certain party leaders, etc., in fact the main essence, to obstruct the federal government, and we know where it leads us. We believe that this very bill can completely avoid it. It is not true, if we understand it well, and I think we are so written that we understand that there is no way that MPs can come in as we call all of this a small party, a small party, or rather - with a smaller number of representations in the Republic Parliament, and it is not our fault. The people saw who went to the election with whom and that kind of trust and gave. I think that in Article 7 it says well - that other, or MP clubs which do not have the right to elect at least one MP, I suppose that this meant the parties, too, can agree to point out their candidate for the Greater Republic. The second is that there is no one in the opposition to talk to anyone, especially those opposition parties or MPs who don't think the same thing. So we have these small parties, with a small number of MPs in the Republic Parliament, who have a chance to propose to this assembly that we still be represented in the Greater Republic. What we're not, I've already said what we're not, unfortunately we're also with one representative, through me, I don't know how powerful we are to influence everyone else, all the other opposition parties come to their senses, and that we've already seen what happened to us, and that doesn't happen again. At the end of all this, by estimating the time that has taken place, I would like to conclude, i.e., the Council of the Coalition of the Peasant Party of Serbia and the United Pension Party, through its representative in the National Assembly, i.e. As a People's MP, we support the proposed law to elect MPs to the Greater Republic of Yugoslavia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-04-11-0.u1966	Thank you. Are any of the other MPs answering for a word? Nobody. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. I ask the Members of Parliament to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I'm putting the bill to the vote in principle. The vote was 168, against four, with abstentions, did not vote five, a total of 177 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 5th amendment. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. ) I ask the MPs to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. We've got quorum. I put the amendments to the vote. For seven, against 166, no one abstained, one did not vote, 174 MPs present in the hall. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 16(1) of Amendment II, MP Marijan Rističević submitted. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. ) I ask the MPs to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. We've got quorum. I put the amendments to the vote. Five votes against 166, no one abstentioned, three did not vote, 174 MPs present in the hall. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 16(2) of Amendment III, MP Marijan Risticevic submitted. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. ) I ask the MPs to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. We've got quorum. I put the amendments to the vote. For voting four, against 164, no one abstentioned, three MPs did not vote, 171 MP present in the hall. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 16(2) of Amendment IV, MP Marijan Risticevic submitted. The Government, the Committee on Justice and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. ) I ask the MPs to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. We've got quorum. I put the amendments to the vote. In four, against 167, no one abstained, one did not vote, 172 MPs present in the hall. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Anyone else want to talk about the bill in particular? He doesn't want to. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a search of the bill in particular. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. We've got quorum. I put to the vote the bill on the election of federal MPs to the Greater Republic of the Federal Assembly, in general. For 169 against four, no one abstentioned, was voted by one MP, a total of 174 present in the hall. I find that the National Assembly passed by majority vote a bill on the election of federal MPs to the Greater Republic of the Federal Assembly. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PURPOSE OF THE PURPOSE OF THE PURPOSE OF ACCOUNTS, DOCUMENTS AND ACCOUNTS IN 2001. FOR YEARS IN THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA, you have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Marijan Risticevic and Dobrosav Radovic, as well as the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on these amendments. You have received a report from the Committee on Justice and Administration, which adopted the draft law in principle and in particular and proposes to the National Assembly to adopt it in the proposed text. You have been presented with a report by the Legislative Committee which adopted the draft law in principle and in particular. I'm opening a principled search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? He doesn't want to. Do any of the MPs want a word? He doesn't want to. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. We've got quorum. I put the bill to the vote in principle. For the 162 votes against no one, with one abstention, voted five, a total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. ) I ask the MPs to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. We've got quorum. I put the amendments to the vote. For voting four, against 164, no one abstained, one did not vote, 169 MPs present in the hall. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dobrosav Radovic submitted to the 15th amendment. (Employer Dobrosav Radovic gives up his amendment. I thank you. Anyone else want to talk about the bill in particular? He doesn't want to. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a search of the bill in particular. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. We've got quorum. ) I put to the vote the draft law on the implementation of the census, households and dwellings in 2001 in the Republic of Serbia as a whole. The vote was 167 against four, abstentioned by none, was voted by one, a total of 172 MPs present in the hall. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law on the implementation of the census, households and dwellings in 2001 in the Republic of Serbia. We move to the fourth item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on Games of Happiness You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have been presented with a report from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. I'm opening a principled search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? No, I don't. Do any of the MPs want a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the law on gambling, in principle. The vote was 159 against three, no one abstained, six did not vote, a total of 168 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. Does anyone want to talk about the bill in particular? No, I don't. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a search of the bill in particular. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the law on gambling in general. For 162, against one, no one was abstentioned, no three voted, a total of 166 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has passed most of the votes a bill on amendments and additions to the law on gambling. We'll continue the session at 2.30 p.m. [[After a break.]] We're going back to work. We move to confirm the mandate of MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Having obtained the conditions, I propose that we establish the mandate of Members of the People's Parliament in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for vacant seats, in order to enable them to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been presented with a report by the Republic Election Commission on the selection of MPs in election units 6 - Zrenjanin and 13 - Sabac, to fill the seats in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Also, you were presented with a report by the Administrative Committee, which found that the conditions for confirming the mandate of the MPs were met, with a proposal for the National Assembly, as set out in Article 30(5). The Law on the Selection of People's MPs finds confirmation of the mandate to the MPs: - Dr. Bureau Gezi, elected on the Socialist Party of Serbia's Election List, the Yugoslav Left, New Democracy - Slobodan Milosevic in Election Unit 6 - Zrenjanin, and - Aleksandr Despotovic, elected on the Serbian Radical Party's election list - Dr. Vojislav Seselj in Election Unit 13 - Sabac. On the basis of the report of the Republic Election Commission and the report and the proposal of the Administrative Committee, as referred to in Article 30(5). The Law on the Selection of Members of the People, I find confirmation of the mandate to the Members of the People: - Dr. Bureau Gezi, and - Aleksandr Despotovic. Congratulations to the MPs of the election. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on the Final Account of the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 1999. [[Applause]] YOU have received the bill of law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have been presented with reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, which propose to the National Assembly to adopt the bill. I'm opening a principled search. I'm asking the Proposer's representative to take his word for it. He has the word Finance Minister Borislav Milacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-04-11-0.u1968	Dear People's MPs, you have before you the draft law on the final account of the 1999 budget of the Republic of Serbia, which has been established by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and which is proposed to the National Assembly for adoption. The debate on the achievement of the Republic of Serbia's budget last year is in fact a debate on the achievement of economic policy, i.e. public spending policy in the past year, which took place in very difficult and complex conditions. In the first half of the year, during the criminal NATO aggression, the country's defence was a priority. The aim of the public spending policy was to make it possible for the state and public services to function better in the given conditions and to concentrate their resources and forces on the defence of the country. That period has shown, in addition to the great courage and willingness of our people for a successful defense, that our country can function very organisedly in the most difficult conditions. All state functions have been effectively performed. The financing of public spending was carried out according to strictly established priorities. According to a special regulation by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, patriotism in the defence of the country is shown not only by the armed forces service but also by the effective and responsible performance of its own tasks in the state administration, public services and businesses. The unity and solidarity of all citizens of our country have been confirmed in the best way during this period. Starting last July, an intense period of rebuilding and building our country began. Economic policy, and in this context and public spending policy, we had to constantly review and coordinate with the country's reconstruction tasks. It was also necessary to provide funding for the reconstruction of the country while achieving the basic objectives of economic policy. Today we can say that we have done it completely. We've had monetary and price stability for a long time. Production recovers and announces further growth. The country's recovery funds were provided by a law passed in July 1999. This law provides for the introduction of a special tax on business transactions carried out in payment transactions at a rate of 0.15%. More than 400 million dinars were collected in this way last year. In addition to revenue from a special fee, the Republic Directorate also generated revenues from other sources, primarily from donations of legal and natural persons from the country and diaspora, as well as from loans from business banks -- over 520 million dinars. Immediately after the entry into force of the law in July 1999, priorities and deadlines for the execution of works on road, railway and high-building buildings were established. In line with the priorities and deadlines set, the funds were spent in general to pay commitments to construction enterprises. With these companies, the Republic Directorate for the Reconstruction of the Land concluded contracts for the implementation of works on the recovery of damaged and destroyed transport infrastructure facilities, housing and other facilities - schools, hospitals, cultural institutions, etc. Since the start of the country's reconstruction works, 189 construction sites have been opened, and 113 construction sites have completed works, 33 bridges of road infrastructure, 5 railway bridges, twice, five deviations on road infrastructure. 470 apartments were built. 174 housing units with high damage, four heats, eight educational institutions, five health institutions, two farms and 15 other public facilities have been renovated. Over a billion dinars were spent on these facilities last year. The government of the Republic of Serbia focused its activities on revitalising and restoring the destroyed production facilities, in addition to its engagement in the reconstruction of the collapsed infrastructure. For companies that have suffered the greatest war destruction - NIS, EPS, Azotara, "Stava", Krusik, "Cer", "Milan Blagojevic", "Freedom", "14 October", SARTID and other enterprises - the government has adopted specific reconstruction and economic-financial consolidation programmes. In parallel with the recovery and revitalisation of production, special programmes have been adopted and implemented for the care of workers who have temporarily lost their jobs. In this way, social security of employees has been ensured in the period of reconstruction by a war-torn capacity, while at the same time the possibility of obtaining initial funds from social programmes to activate new programmes and create new jobs. Based on these programmes, social security has had over 155,000 workers, and over 21,000 new jobs have been used and opened on the basis of the active programmes carried by this government's socio-economic programme. The funds from the solidarity daily, the Development Fund and the business banks, therefore, from real sources, the war of a broken economy, have provided over three billion for reconstruction and financial consolidation. In this year, the government continues to implement a policy of revitalisation and consolidation of these companies, on the same real basis. All of this shows, and our enemies have to admit it, too, when we achieved impressive results in rebuilding and building the country. The effects of aggression have been largely removed and conditions for normal life and the work of citizens and growth of economic activity have been ensured. This shows that the restoration, development and reform can be achieved even faster in spite of all the difficulties, sanctions, threats and pressures we face. Dear MPs, in order to provide support in the process of reconstruction and development, as well as to achieve additional economic policy objectives in 1999, public spending policy had to be restrictive and that it had clearly identified priorities. We sought to minimise, on the one hand, the burden of necessary intervention from the economy and to create conditions for the smooth functioning of state and public services and for the achievement of social giving. At the end of last year, the Law on special conditions and how to settle its own obligations on the basis of public revenues was adopted. The basic objective of the Law was to create favourable conditions for the settlement of the accumulated debts of the economy, based on public revenues from 1998 and 1999. When we sum up the effects of implementing this law by 31 December 1999, we can say that good results have been achieved. Companies regulated their total debt on the basis of a billion-dollar public revenues of 440 million dinars and independent entrepreneurs of 344 million dinars. According to legal solutions, businesses and entrepreneurs have paid one part of the debt, while the other part has been written off, or reprogrammed. By applying Article 4 of this Law to specific programmes, it is further possible to regulate the obligation of public enterprises of two billion 305 million dinars. In this way, there has been practically a disbursement of the economy totaling four billion dinars. An adequate collection of public revenues has been provided. The monthly revenues of the Republic's budget in December and January were practically tripled. In implementing public spending policy, a significant problem was the lack of funds to pay pensions in the Republic of the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund. In order to reduce pension delays, as well as facilitate their payment in the further period, the Serbian government has adopted a regulation on how to pay off unpaid pensions and cash compensations, as well as pension and disability insurance for the unemployed. This regulation settles the debt on the basis of outstanding pensions for May, June and July 1999 totalling 3.5 billion dinars. Each pensioner shall be charged with the amount of debt and shall issue a certificate which could be used for the payment of electricity, coal or heating wood purchases. These certificates were used most by pensioners to pay spent electricity through the EPS Public Enterprise. This way of paying off last year has provided 13.5 months of pensions. An integral part of a consistent public spending policy in 1999 was a policy of budgetary income and expenditure. I'm here to say that the budgetary policy of the year that was most difficult for our country has been realised from real sources, on the principles of sound constraints. I remind you that Budget for 1999 was adopted at a session of the National Assembly in 1998. At that time, the total budget amounted to 21 billion dinars of 458 million dinars. NATO's aggression on our country, which occurred in the spring of 1999, has affected a significant reduction in income, as well as the scope and structure of expenditure. In order to implement the budget during NATO aggression on our country, the government of the Republic of Serbia adopted a public spending balance sheet Regulation for April, May, June 1999. The total amount of the budget is set at 4.4 billion dinars, with a total of 3.1 billion. It means 71% of the plan. During this period, the government of the Republic of Serbia implemented a restrictive public spending policy and established strict priorities in carrying out expenditure. Total expenditure during this period was made at 3.3 billion, which is about 5% more than other revenues in this period, and accounts for 75% of the planned amount. Practically, during this period of NATO aggression on our country, all expenditure, other than expenditure on dedicated production, were carried out at lower amounts than planned. Looking at the year in general, between February 1999 and January 31st 2000, last year was so-called. Prolonged budget years, total sources amount to 16.7 billion dinars, or 78% of the plan. In order to achieve the estimated expenditure in the past year, funds from special accounts from the Ministry of Finance were also used and these funds were used for the registration of motor vehicles, special fees for social programmes, mobile phone charges of 888 million dinars. It follows that the overall revenue of the Republic's 1999 budget was 17.6 billion dinars or 82.2% of the plan. A smaller budget of 2.8 billion is quite understandable, given the overall conditions that were in last year. In the budget structure, the highest share has two basic incomes, a citizen's income tax, about 40%. Excise and sales tax 38%. The remaining 7.7% of income is generated from property taxes, profit taxes, different taxis, as well as other revenues. Budget expenditures adjusted to lower revenues achieved and amounted to 17.6 billion dinars, with funding immediately following NATO's completion of the aggression, primarily due to the country's recovery and recovery of damages. In the second half of 1999, the government of the Republic of Serbia continued its policy of stricting and implementing priorities, with a fundamental goal of keeping budgetary and other public expenditures within the limits of available resources. The main purposes of the expenditure achieved by the Republic budget are: means to achieve the law of established rights, education, science, culture, physical culture, 35%. Salary in state authorities 26%. Material costs 4%. Funding to boost development 9%, social resources 8% and funding for the provinces and additional funds of the municipality 1.2%, as well as other purposes 16%. The most important task that was accomplished in the second half of the year, the financial year following NATO aggression, was aimed at improving the material position of employees in education, culture, public services, by speeding up the payoffs during the aggression. During this period it was paid to employees in basic and secondary education of 12.5 monthly salaries, employees in higher and university education of 13.5 monthly salaries, employees in student standard of 11 salaries, in culture of 11.5 salaries, in the physical culture of 11 salaries. The funds for the material costs of state authorities and organisations were made in the amount of 696 million and the funds for material costs in public services of 352 million dinars. For specific and other purposes, for state authorities and organisations, public services, funds are provided in total of 2 billion and 162 million dinars. That's about 78 percent of the plan. These funds have been spent on implementing specific laws, investments, special purposes with the Ministry of the Interior, the Commissioner for Refugees. The funds to stimulate the development of the economy were made in the total amount of billions and 600 million dinars, i.e. 87.6% of the plan. Most of these funds are waste on the implementation of the agrarian budget programme. The funds to stimulate development through the Development Fund were implemented at the level planned by 260 million. 215 million or 80% of the plan has been spent to do the Republic's loyal affairs in the provinces and municipalities. For the implementation of the Law in the field of social protection, social care for children and martial law in 1999 included over a million users, of which 140 thousand social security users, 848 000 children's protection users and 92 thousand persons in martial and disability protection. In addition to payment of children's allowances, other rights within the framework of social care for children, therefore, maternity benefits, maternal supplements and others, have been significantly updated despite the use of additional funds. For exceptional reasons, payment of child accessories could not be more significantly updated. This remains one of the government's most important obligations in 2000 to find the source of these commitments. The honourable MPs, in general, can be said that the budget for certain budget expenditures has been implemented according to priorities in the solid frameworks of the resources available and that the 1999 budget has been implemented in general successfully. Given all of the above, I suggest you adopt the Law on the Final Account of the Republic of Serbia for 1999. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-04-11-0.u1969	Thank you. Do any of the MPs want a word? There's a word from MP Dragan Veselinov.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-04-11-0.u1970	Ladies and gentlemen, there is no law more important for the state than the Budget Law. This is the first assembly, which I suppose, by the insolence of the number of MPs standing on one side, will adopt the war budget after last year's tragedies we've experienced. There is no more important budget or law than the state budget, and even the Law on the Spatial Plan, which is a long-term nature, is less important than the budget. The only thing more important than him is the constitution, but they are brought by a constitutional congregation. So this law cannot be passed, not only because of the repetition of the old relations that appear in this budget, but which is proposed by who here for what time and which should be adopted by an emergency procedure. At a few minutes before the beginning of today's session, we were given the text of the Law on the adoption of a final account relating to (I know that you have interrupted me, you do not have to report), so that already persistent maintenance of the country's state of emergency, forcing the Assembly to pass the laws by emergency procedure, only the political atmosphere in the country is being further heated, and the Assembly itself is being demeaning. There is no serious time at our disposal to discuss in detail the proposal for this law, which adopts the budget for last year and therefore, under serious circumstances, and these are not, the law cannot be passed. We, among other things, want to point out that we are extremely wrong that the budget of the Republic of Serbia for the past year is less than planned. He is smaller than anticipated because of the war that we all suffered together, but if they had respected the warnings of the Vojvodina coalition for this pay phone, that we would not enter the war to save the economy, that there would be no human casualties, that there would be no ecological disaster, and that the government of the three pact would not ultimately sign the capitulation, as it has signed, under which it has acknowledged the results of the war, and now it is playing the winner here, although the monument has not yet raised itself, and that is all we expect you to do. It's perfectly normal that the budget had to be far less than the one planned. For that, first of all, the responsibility of this war assembly, which more than a year ago decided to enter the war. Only one goal of the war was to ensure that President Milosevic and his regime were preserved in power, at the cost of the war, to show that Cosmet would lose the country only under gun and under no other circumstances. Finally, the capitulation was signed, and we ran out of many factories, with additional labor and what is most painful with human victims and disabled people. It is this government's fault that has disobeyed our warnings, that this war assembly is to blame and let this war assembly adopt the budget and let the people explain to them why it is so small, which is why financial funds are again and further centralised and that is why the Central-Plan Economy is being restored in this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-04-11-0.u1971	Thank you. He has the word Vojislav Seselj, Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-04-11-0.u1972	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, unlike most of you, this wasn't funny to me at all. I think this is a very serious problem, when a MP so drunk comes out for a pay phone, he doesn't know what he's talking about. We're discussing the final budget bill for last year, and he just doesn't know what we're discussing, nothing he's talking about. So, first of all, I request the President of the National Assembly to ban the session session, which is scheduled for lunch, pouring alcohol for the MPs. It's the first thing and it has to be done right away. Perhaps he will now offer Mr. Vesenov to blow into the balloon or to have his blood tested, I think he's long since been unable to drive, and the question is whether he can walk through this congregation without potentially jeopardizing someone. Since he's not talking about what's the subject of this debate, he's also got the impossible controversy on that basis. He just came out here and said he was an adventist. It would be good if he could explain one more thing to us. Since he is so often associated with the bishop Artemius, and since the bishop of Artemia has the same ideological views as Dragan Vesenov and the bishop of Artemia, through television, accuses the Serbian people and the state leadership of blaming us for the bombing, not the aggressor, not the enemy, not the American villains, to declare himself here Dragan Vesenov, perhaps also the bishop of Artemis adventists. I wouldn't be surprised if he was so quick to carry out orders of the new world order.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-04-11-0.u1973	Thank you. Replica - National MP Dragan Veselinov.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-04-11-0.u1974	I have long been accustomed to the senseless insults that Vojislav Seselj has constantly inflicted on me after this pay phone. But you don't seem to know who the adventists are, so that's what you call me. What you've done to the Serbian people, it seems to me that you belong to the Satanic sect, and I know very well what this is all about today and don't accuse anyone, at least not me of corruption, I am a professor of economics, and I don't know why you are and why they took you there. I feel sorry for those students you teach. But for this speaker, the Vojvodina coalition was extremely clear and morally warning what would happen, that we would lose our economy, that there would be human casualties, that we would experience an ecological disaster, and that the whole war would serve to sustain one regime in power, and that Cosmet would lose. (Cheeselj, from the place - is Artemis...) That is what you leave behind, so argue with him; you have already begun with him; I do not. Don't insult anyone, not the bishop, not the nimens, not the others. And as for the proposal to ban drinking, so why not? It's just, you know what, I can get sober, though I'm not drunk. But you're out of your mind... But you can't save yourself from madness. [[Laughter]] From there, it is far better for you to install in this congregation a hospital, a psychiatric clinic, so that you can be in it every day. That's best for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-04-11-0.u1975	Thank you. Are any of the other MPs answering for a word? Nobody. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. I ask the Members of Parliament to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I'm putting the bill to the vote in principle. For 161 against three, the abstentions were not voted by three, a total of 167 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. Are any of the MPs reporting for the draft law in particular? Nobody. ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude the examination of the 1999 draft law on the final account of the Republic of Serbia's 1999 budget in particular. I ask the Members of Parliament to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I am putting the draft law on the final account of the Republic of Serbia's 1999 budget in general. For 160, the four, the abstentioned, were not voted by two, a total of 166 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly adopted the draft law on the final budget of the Republic of Serbia for 1999. We are going over the 6th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a DECISION ON THE FINISH ACCOUNT OF THE BUDGET OF THE AUTONOMAL SUPPORT OF COSTS AND METOCHY FOR 1999. YOU have received a proposal for a decision, which was made by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have been presented with reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. I'm opening a unique search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? No, I don't. Do any of the MPs want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since no one is answering my word, I'm concluding a unique search. I ask the Members of Parliament to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I put to the vote the draft decision on the final account of Kosovo's Autonomous Region and Metohija's 1999 budget. For 162 against four, the abstentioned were not voted by one, a total of 167 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the draft decision on the final budget of the Autonomous province of Kosovo and Metohija for 1999. We move to the 7th point of the agenda: - The proposal for a decision on the establishment of fixed cultural benefits of exceptional importance has been adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You are presented with reports from the Committee on Culture and Information and the Legislative Committee. I'm opening a unique search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? No, I don't. Do any of the MPs want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I am concluding a unique search. I ask the Members of Parliament to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I put to the vote a proposal for a decision on the establishment of immovable cultural goods of exceptional importance. For 163 against four, the abstentions were not voted by two, a total of 169 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the proposal for a decision on the establishment of immovable cultural goods of exceptional importance. We move to the 8th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a DECISION ON THE DETERMINATION OF THE OLD AND NEAR KNIGHT OF EXTERNAL SIGNANCE You have received a proposal for a decision taken by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received a report from the Committee on Culture and Information, which proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a proposal for a decision. You have been presented with a report by the Legislative Committee, which also proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the draft decision. I'm opening a unique search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? No, I don't. Do any of the MPs want a word? He has the word National MP Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-04-11-0.u1976	Mr. President, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since you've left this assembly so that it's going on at a rather unserious level and I'm going to be a little unserious. I read this decision about old and rare books, of great importance, and looking at the decision on this rare and old book, it is seen that it is about protecting old and rare books from the 15th, 16th and 17th centuries. Since our standard has fallen and we have begun to live by the standards of that century Since our standard has fallen and we live as in the Middle Ages, I suggest that those who brought us back to the Middle Ages and cave Serbia we give recognition by putting the following literary works as rare and old books. [[growls]] The first is "The Year of the Rule" by Slobodan Milosevic, the second is "The Night and the Day" by Mira Markovic, and the third is to be protected, as a rare part of Mr Vojislav Seselj. I don't know what his books are called. I don't think he knows either. He wrote more books than he read. And to also fit into the rarest and old literary works of all his regulations and all his tax-dealing laws, including the last beer tax, from dinars per bottle, so to me honest duchess.. [[growls]] No, this government is famous... Please.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-04-11-0.u1977	Mr. Risticevic, please...
ParlaMint-RS_2000-04-11-0.u1978	The government is well-known for introducing many new taxes and many new numbers, including exit tax, number tax, vehicle tax, registration tax, re-registration tax, so I suggest they introduce a tax on stupidity, so Vojislav Seselj will pay the highest tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-04-11-0.u1979	There's a word from the Messenger of the People, Golden Peru.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-04-11-0.u1980	Dear ladies and gentlemen, in the political practice of parallel parliamentary systems (I am saying this because of a gentleman who takes away even in the morning, even now, time, trying to bring down the level of this parliament on the street or on a very bad bar) there is no example, regardless of the various political opinions, that what happened today happens. I pray, if it is true that Mr. Vesenov and the "Vojvodina" coalition claim that they are not always on television, that they are on all televisions today, for everything they have said, but that they are particularly isolated that they and a group of MPs, which is unknown in the history of European civilization, voted in terms of the preservation of the history of this people, the Second Serbian Revolution. It's such a thing. There is no patriot and citizen of Serbia and Serbia, who will not vote for the law proposed by the government of the Republic of Serbia, because it is 185 years and soon 200 years since the First Serbian Revolution. There is no member of the European Parliament of any of these countries, whose current rulers are very powerful, and very small as people, who, regardless of political differences, would not vote in favour of the history of their people. The second gentleman, because it is another matter, also related to the culture and history of this people, found nothing different than to try to do what, unfortunately, empires have been trying to bring down everything that history and civilization of this people has done, for the first thousand years, and then for the last 200 years, since the Serbian people became a political people and never wanted to become a people of subjection. That's why there are two Serbian revolutions. There is no MP who can represent anyone, except that in his place are those who have committed crime against this people, who could speak for anyone, or even in the name of his own family, and that he may appear to say yes first to vote against, to put it on the agenda, and secondly, to vote against Takova. I'm asking for this to be published. Everything else I don't care about, everything else I think is, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, that these gentlemen, because I respect the institute I belong to, the institution I belong to, there is no moral, political, historical and civil right to speak for anyone else. It's not political differences here, it's part of a nation's civilization. A certain leader of the Third Reich, Mr. Adolf Hitler, or whatever his name was, the Fuhrer, did it very successfully by destroying the National Library in 1941. He didn't do it for the library building, to suppress the history of the people. The Austro-Hungarians did it, the Turks did it, the Germans did it, they did it one, the other, the third. And this last thing that was happening, besides, also had that dimension, and today that dimension is present in Kosovo. This isn't about political differences, this isn't about regimes, this is about, ladies and gentlemen, people who don't want the state of Serbia, and this ends every conversation. This isn't about whether we want this in power, the one in power, we want this game, we want that game. This kind of behavior disqualifies every conversation. This is about people who believe that the state of Serbia should not exist, because they are eradicating its past, for the sake of not having any present or future. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2000-04-11-0.u1981	Did you guys recognize each other?
ParlaMint-RS_2000-04-11-0.u1982	Mr. Perrumic, let me tell you something, the Vojvodina coalition has made it clear that it will not vote for any law that this government is proposing by emergency procedure, because we did not have the opportunity to consider this law. This is particularly important for such serious laws on cultural goods and we, for the principle of our refusal to vote on such laws, but of course, we will be very happy to participate in everything that needs to protect valuable property, origin, buildings, books, paintings, art items of all kinds, which are still left in our country after your participation in the tragedy last year, when you were together with others causing war. And if anyone is responsible for being so little good here last year, then this government and this congregation, which entered the war, is responsible. But we're going to vote for this law that applies to old books, because it's neatly filed, it's arrived days before, we've had a chance to consider it, and we're going to vote. But by the way, I welcome your proposal, very brave (I don't know what Mrs. Gajevic will tell you after this) to allow us to be... On TV's stranger in the people, as we can't do here whenever there's a session of the Assembly. I welcome that. I'd like it to happen, just let us into the people, that's what we want you to do whenever you can, in accordance with the Public Information Act. But by the way, I tell you something, Mr. Perrucic, it wasn't the first Serbian revolution and the uprising was 1804, as you think wrong. History has long known when the first Serbian uprising -- 1594 in Banat -- broke out and led by St. Theodore Vrsacki. Because of that uprising, the moats of St. Sava were burned on Wrazzler. When you learn that, among other things, you give us a speech about Serbian history and patriotism. Don't answer that again.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-04-11-0.u1983	There's a word from Vice President Vladimir Stambuk.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-04-11-0.u1984	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, I am in a great dilemma what the Assembly was talking about today. When it was on the agenda of the Law on election of MPs to the Federal Assembly, we discussed the regime and Milosevic. When the budget was adopted, we discussed Milosevic again and the regime. When it came to the old books, we talked again about Milosevic and the regime. Simply, here, first, they don't respect the rules of this house, secondly, they don't respect the agenda, and thirdly, they don't talk about topics that are on the agenda. I can understand my colleague's frustration about the regime, but allow me, when it was so much fun, to say one of my life experiences-- I had another, who never wanted to get married, and the girl he was always with wanted it. And if he mentioned -- let's go take a bath, she'd say, "Oh, my God, let's take a bath," but imagine how nice it would be if we got married, so we'd go as husband and wife. Let's go over here again, etc. Of course, in the end, they didn't take a bath, they didn't marry him, they didn't marry him, they didn't marry her, and I believe that's how these fellow parliamentarians of ours, who want to change the regime all the time, and they won't do anything to change things. Please, this is a simple fact -- if we had listened to the proposals that the Vojvodina coalition gave us last year, this year would probably have been some KFOR soldier, or already what it would have been called, trodden by the minister, and perhaps even a colleague of Veselinov, as a republican MP, and would have gone unpunished. And not only that, but all the bridges would be broken, all the railways would be trampled, they'd break anything that came to mind, and I ask you, not according to the Rambuje deal and contract, because in Rambuje, no deal and contract was made, but a group of Albanians, probably better said terrorists signed some paper with some American representatives, but according to that paper, every citizen of Yugoslavia, who worked for KFOR and was excluded from any court process, could have done whatever he wanted and didn't answer to anything. It's not the Middle Ages, it's the Middle Ages, it's not the capitulation, it's total slavery. I, unfortunately, unlike my colleague, Veselinov, did not want to live in such a society and I was not ready, either in Rambuje, or in Belgrade, to accept it. If he's ready, please, he has a lot of options, so let him find a way to allow himself to live that way. So it's not about any bad judgment, it's not about us causing war, it's about a group of white-world powers attacking this country, it's about bombing. If Mr. Veselinov, my colleague, is not enough demonstrations and various courts working around the world today and newspapers being written, and they belong to America, Great Britain, France, etc., who are talking about it, then he is an unproven man. As far as learning history is concerned, we have here today proposed a law that needs to fix what was previously criticised. It is also criticised by the opposition, namely that delegations from the Republic Assembly are addressed to the Federal Assembly based on the majority system, and that a much more democratic system should be accepted. When it's proposed, it's not good. Why isn't it good? Because we can't get into that delegation. The elections in Greece ended yesterday. PASOK at 42% or 45%, don't take my word for it, got 133 seats in the Assembly. Greece belongs to the European Union, belongs to this world that allegedly has developed democracy, where principles are respected. If you have no votes, if you have no seats in parliament, if you were close to a group of those parties that barely skipped the censorship, that's how it has to be respected. But don't cause the democratic processes that are here to question the regime. Don't turn it into democracy, into something that's bad. As far as history is concerned, I don't want to discuss what is what, but the Versailles Peace, which is mentioned here, is the peace that began the concept of intervention in other countries based on religious minorities. The concept was abolished in 1945 by the adoption of the Charter of the United Nations, which banned under any reason intervention in any other sovereign country. Today, the concept of human rights, as once used religious rights, is used to bomb Yugoslavia and not just Yugoslavia. To tell a colleague who's so learned that he knows everything about Libya and other countries, to say that the United States is so stupid, that three days ago they signed new conditions of co-operation and cooperation with Gaddafi. That Libya doesn't matter. That Iraq doesn't matter. Africa doesn't matter. Please, there's been a civilization in that Africa long before in America, a thousand years ago. So let's not say things by heart, but stick to the facts. In the future, if anyone has any objections to the law, let them make objections to the law, not the regime. The regime will change once the citizens of this country want it. As for the books to be kept, you're right. Those books will be preserved. One day they'll be very important. These books are read in 50 countries of the world. They've been translated into all the languages of the world. You probably didn't read them, so you don't know how much they're worth.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-04-11-0.u1985	He has the word Dragan Veselinov.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-04-11-0.u1986	Mr. President, Mr. Dean, I'm glad my colleague called today. I haven't heard from him in the congregation in a long time. It's a good thing Mr. Stambuk called today. It's a good opportunity for me to tell him it's not exactly what he said. Mr. Stambuk said that in Rambuje, among other things, they refused the agreement or contract, either by whatever name, because the agreement provided for those who come here to enjoy legal immunity and those who work for them to enjoy legal immunity. If you refused then why did you sign an annex (a) of the Military Technical Agreement after three and a half months? Why not go public and publish an annex (a) of the Military Technical Agreement, i.e. the right text of capitulation, which this congregation has never seen, never considered, nor decided. Why don't you announce that international forces have the right to move freely across the entire territory of Yugoslavia, unlimited number of entry and exits, have absolute legal immunity, have the right to enter the buildings they want to, to raise objects on our territory and then, if they want to, destroy them. (Dragan Todorovic: Here, now you have seen a paid traitor! ) They have the right to import and export etc. Why don't you publish an annex a) that you signed, so you don't say that you, for God's sake, refused the agreement. You accepted, you signed the capitulation, even deceived this assembly about the true text of the Military Technical Agreement. That's what I'm putting on your soul. Don't say you refused, apparently, the difficult conditions in Rambuje. You've accepted much more difficult conditions. You've accepted the Captain's terms. This is the capitulant government that has accepted that Cosmet is no longer in Serbia's legal system. Under the Constitution, no one had the right to sign a capitulation on our country's territory, not on any part of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-04-11-0.u1987	He's got the word Vladimir Stambuk - a reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-04-11-0.u1988	I don't think it's good to bring our personal relationships into debate. Being a dean, that's fate. Please, it's all published. It is published in our English - language magazines, in our language, exists on the Internet, anyone can read, of course, if he knows the language. But everything in our language has been published. There are no secret clauses. There's nothing beyond what's been published. If anyone found any other options, that's another story. Let's get along with Rambuje. I experienced a journalist in a television debate asking my colleague what was going on in Rambouille. I was sitting there, I was locked up in Rambuje for 17 days. I couldn't get out of those 50 square meters. Nothing was signed in Rambuje because nothing was signed. There's no record of Rambuje. That's what the French and Americans let go of. But in Rambuje, it is very precise: six members of the contact group did not adopt the document. Therefore, the document is not official because no one has ever discussed the document. The fact that you didn't read that document, that's your problem. Read, then you will see that there is no such clauses as you speak of. Because if there were such clauses, believe me, the Americans would have been here a long time ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-04-11-0.u1989	He has the word of Deputy Prime Minister Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-04-11-0.u1990	I answered the word to criticise Mr. Stamp. Mr. Stambuk, you've been a dean of the Faculty of Political Sciences for two years. And he's still a professor of Dragan Veselin's at that college!
ParlaMint-RS_2000-04-11-0.u1991	He's protected by the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-04-11-0.u1992	The law doesn't protect him. You have many legal grounds to prevent foreign mercenaries from being professors of the Faculty of Political Sciences. The law has given these opportunities. You're responsible for him being a professor. Take care, you are required to follow the law to the end. You know well that he receives money from abroad, you know well that it belongs to the fifth column, you know well that from Serbian enemies he receives orders to act against the Serbian state and the Serbian people. You have a legal basis for solving this problem. Second, he's been lying here all day to the MPs. If he hits the MPs with lies, in front of television cameras notor lies, such as this lie about the Military Technical Agreement, then the assumption is that college students are constantly poisoned by various lies. I voted against the Military Technical Agreement and against the Chernomidin-Ahtisari plan. She voted against the whole Serbian Radical Party. I wrote a book about everything that preceded Rambuy and Rambuy, and all three agreements that were signed. Everything that has been relatively favourable for us is just waiting to be realized. Like the deployment of our army, our police, no matter how contigent they are. Come out here, so not blinking lies, only someone who has absolutely no morals. It's not a moral question right now about who's going to be a college professor and who won't. It's a fact of fact, who's a foreign mercenary and who's not. Whoever receives the money, who has evidence of receiving money and who participates in all forms of a special psychological war against our country, simply cannot stay in college. You think tomorrow that Dragan Veselinov will come to power for you to stay, you're wrong. Then why should we tattoo like him, why? [[Laughter]] That's the key question. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2000-04-11-0.u1993	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-04-11-0.u1994	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since the first multi-party assembly since 1990, there has been a traitor in it. That number goes from 30 to 50, like when. This time the group is about that big, but everyone else is smart enough to, since the whole public knows they're traitors, they don't show up in this congregation. Betrayal and subjection fell upon Veselin and upon his handful. There is no more democratic country in the world, no country in the world could happen that someone comes out for a pay phone all day and embarrasses his country, condemns the greatest act, for defending the country, condemns the Assembly. The government has the right to condemn, of course, but condemns the Assembly for decisions it has made, decisions that the whole world envys. That's what Mr. Vesenov's been doing all day. In Russia, patriotic MPs beat Javlinski from the pronato party, because he spoke ill of Serbia. And here, in the Serbian Parliament, Mr. Vesenov speaks openly against his country and against his people. One day, Mr. Vesenov, I will sacrifice a political career. It's time for the traitors to be brought out of this congregation. It's the easiest thing to do if someone pulls you by the chin. I wish I could take that biggest traitor, among you, out by the beard, but he's not an MP right now. I'm sorry, Mr. Veselinov, if it breaks down on you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2000-04-11-0.u1995	That's enough replicas. Let's finish the agenda. Željko Simic, Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-04-11-0.u1996	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, I would just like to say a few words to explain what this is really about, because I did not want to take up your time as a proposing. Not because you're not ready to separate him for such an important thing, but because there were two proposals for a decision ahead of you, not the law, as those who challenged the decision wanted to show it. Because it was thought that the decisions that were before you were so clear that they didn't need any explanation. They are simply, when it comes to immovable objects, of exceptional cultural importance, paradigms for what bothers our enemies, which is the free spirit and effort at all times to resist those who wanted to enslave us in the course of our past. In some ways, this past is repeated and it is not by chance that they did not want to adopt this decision, which they voted against that decision, because it is not just material objects, two houses, but houses that symbolize our free resistance against any form of slavery, which was not only at work last year, but continues in different forms, and even under the roof of this high institution. If someone who thinks and calls himself a patriot questions objects that are the real metaphor of our free spirit, then he not only goes against these objects that have unquestionably historical significance, but against our desire to resist the enemy and remain free, as we have so far been. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-04-11-0.u1997	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? He doesn't want to. ) I am concluding a unique search. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, place a card in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I put to the vote a proposal for a decision on the establishment of an old book of exceptional importance. For 173, against one, abstentioned no one, three voted, a total of 177 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted, by majority, a proposal for a decision on the establishment of an old book of exceptional importance. We move to the 9th item of the agenda: - PRESIDENT OF THE COUNTRY OF THE National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia I remind you that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, at the First Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 1999, held on 9 November 1999, pursuant to Article 37(1), and in conjunction with Article 33(3). The Rules of Procedure found that by resigning the post of vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Istvanovic ended. Since the National Assembly, according to Article 17. The Rules of Procedure should have four vice-presidents, it is necessary to elect another vice-president of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that I am in accordance with Article 18. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly received a proposal from the National Assembly’s vice president, which gave them the conditions for the National Assembly, at today’s session, to carry out a procedure for selecting a vice president of the National Assembly. You have been presented with a proposal for a vice president of the National Assembly. As you have seen, National Assembly Vice-President Miladin Zarkov, a member of the Serbian Radical Party, proposed by 71 MPs to his signatures. I remind you, according to Article 19(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the rapporteur, has the right to explain the proposal. Does the rapporteur's rapporteur, Stevo Dragisic, president of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, want to explain the proposal of a candidate for vice-president of the National Assembly? He does.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-04-11-0.u1998	During the constitution of the National Assembly, two seats of the vice-president of the Assembly belonged to the SRS parliamentary group. We then gave one of those two seats to the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians, as a political party representing one of the national minorities in the Republic of Serbia. Meanwhile, MP Istvan Ispanovic resigned as vice president. At that time, we called on the Union of Duke Hungarians several times to run for the same function. So our attitude and our relationship to that post of vice president hasn't changed. There was no response from the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians party, and we decided to fill that place belonging to the Serbian Radical Party. We propose today to elect the MP of the Serbian Radical Party, Miladin Zarkov, to the post. It is Bulgarian nationality and thus the place, which previously belonged to a national minority, will again belong to representatives of the national minority in Serbia. National minorities will also be represented through this vision in the structure of the National Assembly. We hope that our proposal will be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-04-11-0.u1999	Since we've received a proposal from the candidate for vice president of the National Assembly, I'm opening an investigation into this proposal. Do any of the MPs want a word? No, I don't. Since no one's answering for a word, I'm closing the search. Allow me to, according to Article 19(5). Rules of Procedure, I set out a list of candidates for the Vice-President of the National Assembly, which is only one candidate and that is Miladin Zarkov. I remind you that, according to Article 20. The Rules of Procedure, before joining the election of the Vice-Presidents, decides whether to vote in secret or in public, by making a public vote by making a statement to the MPs for each candidate individually - by raising hands or by calling. Is there any proposal on how to vote for the election of vice-president of the National Assembly? There's a word from MP Zoran Milosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-04-11-0.u2000	Ladies and gentlemen, I suggest that the vote be held publicly by hand-lifting.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-04-11-0.u2001	Thank you. We heard the suggestion. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I put to the vote the proposal of Parliamentarian Zoran Milosevic - that the election of vice-presidents of the National Assembly be made by a public vote and by raising hands. For 171, no one is against, there were no abstentions, three did not vote, a total of 174 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly decided, by majority, that the election of Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly should take place by public vote - by raising hands. Since the National Assembly has decided that the election of vice-presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is done by public vote - by raising hands, I pray that, before joining the vote, it will be determined how many MPs attend the session by counting. 183 MPs are present in the O.R. So we have a quorum. I would like to put on a motion to elect MP Miladin Zarkov as vice president of the National Assembly. Who's gonna raise a hand for this proposal? - Number. The vote was 173 against no one with abstentions. Since candidate Miladin Zarkov received most of the votes of the national MPs present, I find he has been elected vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Let me congratulate him on his choice and on your behalf. I ask Miladin Zarkov to take his place. We move to the 10th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a decision amending the decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have adopted a proposal for a decision, which has been submitted by the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group. I'm opening a unique search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? He doesn't want to. Do any of the MPs want a word? He doesn't want to. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a unique search. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I put to the vote the motion for a decision to amend the decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly Committee of the Republic of Serbia. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I'm closing the vote. The 173 vote against no one with abstentions was voted by three MPs, a total of 176 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority a proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you. I'm closing the session. I'll see you on May 3rd or 4th at the next session.
