ParlaMint-RS_2000-05-03-0.u2002	Dear People's MPs, I am opening the Second Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2000. I invite you to pay our respects to MP Vojislav Zivkovic, who died in the period between the previous and this session. Praise him! I would like to inform you that according to official record, today's session is attended by 171 MPs. I invite you to place your cards in the MPs' units to determine the quorum by electronic means. We have a quorum. I am informing the National Assembly that I have approved the absence of the following MPs: Oliver Varagic, Dusan Vlatkovic and Predrag Savic. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. You were presented the minutes of the first session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2000, held on 11 April 2000. Any objections to the record? The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-05-03-0.u2003	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on page 4, which was delivered to us, reads that when I advertised the breach of the Rules of Procedure at the last session, because the president did not open a debate on our proposals for amendments and amendments to the agenda, which the MPs of the "Vojvodina" coalition proposed in an orderly manner in time, and there were 12 in total, the president of the National Assembly replied that no parent committees had spoken about the proposals for additions and amendments to the agenda. Since when do the parent committees declare changes and additions to the agenda? At the same time, he rightly opened a discussion on two proposals for changes and additions to the agenda, proposed by representatives of the Serbian Radical Party. He did it with the right and according to the business procedure. I also asked the president at the last session what about the agenda point - parliamentary issues. He didn't answer, and those agenda points weren't in that session. When the Sandzak MPs came forward, the president wouldn't let them speak, pretend he didn't see them or really didn't see them. That is why I ask, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that the minutes of last session, that the president of the National Assembly at the last session were severely injured by the Rules of Procedure and discriminated against the MPs of the Vojvodina Coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-05-03-0.u2004	Thank you. Are there any other objections to the record? No, there isn't. ) Since there are objections to the minutes, I remind you that, according to Article 87(2). The Rules of Procedure, on objections to the minutes, shall be decided by the National Assembly without delay. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am voting on the remarks, which was announced by MP Marijan Risticevic at the minutes of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2000, on 11 April 2000. The remarks were voted by five, against 166, no one was abstentioned, no voted five, and 176 MPs were present in total. I find that the National Assembly did not adopt an objection at the minutes of the 1st session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2000, held on 11 April 2000, announced MP Marijan Risticevic. We're moving on to a decision on the record in general. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I am voting on the minutes of the 1st session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2000, held on 11 April 2000. For 178, against three, no one abstained, no three MPs voted, and a total of 184 were present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the first session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2000, held on 11 April 2000, without objections. You have been given a letter from the president of the Socialist Party of Serbia, which informs the National Assembly that MP Zivkovic has passed away, so the prescribed conditions for the National Assembly to determine this fact have been obtained. Also, you have been presented with a report by the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the examination of this notice, with a proposal that the National Assembly, on the basis of Article 102, point 9 and point 2 and 3 of Article 102. The law on the election of MPs finds the end of MP Vojislav Zivkovic's term of office on the day of his death. In accordance with Article 102(1), point (9), paragraphs 2 and 3. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Administrative Board, finds that the term of office, before the elected MP Vojislav Zivkovic, elected from the Socialist Party of Serbia's election list, the Yugoslav Left -- Slobodan Milosevic, in Election Unit 28-Pristina, on the day of his death. According to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, a vacancy in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be completed. Having obtained the conditions, I propose that we establish the mandate of the People's MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for a vacant parliamentary post, in order to enable it to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been presented with a report by the Republic Election Commission on the election of a MP in Electoral Unit 18-Zaječar, to fill a vacant seat in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Also, you were presented with a report by the Administrative Board, which found that conditions had been met for confirming the mandate of the MP, with a proposal that the National Assembly, as set out in Article 30(5), would be granted. The law on the election of MPs finds confirmation of the mandate of MP Miroslav Mancevic, elected on the Serbian Radical Party election list - Dr Vojislav Seselj, in Election Unit 18 - Zaječar. On the basis of the report of the Republic Election Commission and the report and the proposal of the Administrative Committee, as referred to in Article 30(5). The law on the election of Members of the People's Parliament, I find confirmation of the mandate of MP Miroslav Mancevic. Congratulations to the People's MP on the election. We're moving on to the agenda. [[Applause]] This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. As you have seen, only one item of the agenda has been proposed for this session: The election of federal MPs to the Greater Republic of the Federal Assembly. Before setting out the agenda for the session, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we need to decide on a proposal to adopt acts in accordance with the urgent procedure and on proposals for amendments and additions to the proposed agenda of the session. First, the government of the Republic of Serbia proposed that the draft law supplementing the Agricultural Land Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 2 May 2000, should be considered as an emergency procedure. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to consider, after an urgent procedure, the draft law supplementing the Law on Agricultural Land. The vote was 182, against four, no one was abstentioned, one was not voted, and a total of 187 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the session's session agenda should be withdrawn from the session's session's agenda. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-05-03-0.u2005	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the key reason to withdraw this item from the agenda is the fact that the list of proposed candidates for the Greater Republic will not match the party assembly of MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It is indisputable that the Socialist Party of Serbia, the Serbian Radical Party and the JUL, should receive 15 mandates in the Federal Assembly's Council, but you, by legal acrobatics, via the Ibar highway, have succeeded in taking all 20 mandates. I'm not surprised at the parties they're used to just taking and kidnapping. No ambassadors from Vojvodina, no Hungarian MPs, no ambassadors from Sandzak... from Raska... The second big reason why you should pull this point off the agenda is your intention to improve them even further instead of dealing with Montenegro. You're arguing with your friends that you've made the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, that we can definitely lose Kosovo if Montenegro leaves, and you signed that Kosovo is autonomously within the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, and that means that if Montenegro leaves, Yugoslavia does not, and in that case there is no Kosovo. That's how you break the country, you, by order of the outside, this country, our country, piece by piece. You are traitors who accuse the opposition of their own misdemeanours. You're the authority that's been making decisions for years and signing agreements in favor of our damage. And these choices you're making today are in this direction to drive the Montenegrins away and lose Kosovo.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-05-03-0.u2006	Mr. Risticevic, please stick to the reasoning of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-05-03-0.u2007	The item of the agenda is the election of federal MPs to the Greater Republic of the Federal Assembly. I ask that this item of the agenda be withdrawn for the reasons I state. With today's election, you will steal the opposition again for five terms. What is this National Assembly doing? When was the last time she discussed health care, education, businesses, industry, the social status of citizens? For two years, I've been asking you to discuss the problems in agriculture that you systematically destroy. Let's discuss agriculture, not just elections and taxes. You can choose as much as you want, but let's talk a little bit about crime. Every country has criminals, but our problem is bigger. We have criminals who have their own country. If by any chance Al Capone were alive and he lives here today, he'd be a tiny fish of spit for our criminals...
ParlaMint-RS_2000-05-03-0.u2008	Please, Mr. Risticevic, stick to the explanation...
ParlaMint-RS_2000-05-03-0.u2009	... I think we'd beat him off and charge him a racket, so small a criminal would be that he wouldn't be admitted to the JUL Directorate. You can choose as much as you want, but let's talk a little bit about life issues instead of just discussing how to defend one man's authority, and that can't be defended anymore. Thank you, Mr. Seselj, for throwing it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-05-03-0.u2010	Quiet, please. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am putting on the vote by Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic to withdraw from the session's agenda - the election of federal MPs to the Greater Republic of the Federal Assembly. For six against 183, no one was abstentioned, one was not voted, and 190 MPs were present in the O.R. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by the agenda item - Proposal for a law on the protection of agricultural production and the adoption of safeguard prices for strategic agricultural products, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 6 August 1999. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-05-03-0.u2011	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, one of the reasons why I asked to put the proposal for a law on the protection of agricultural production and the adoption of protection prices for strategic agricultural products in the Republic of Serbia is next. I've got a liter of acid water in my plastic. This liter of acid water I just paid - 22 dinars, and that liter of acid water is worth more than a liter and a half of Diamond oil from Zrenjanin. This liter of acid water is also worth two and a half kilos of sugar. What kind of parity -- you can conclude for yourself, when 100 kilograms of mineral fertilizer is more expensive than 300 centuries of bread. The agricultural policy that has been conducted in this country for years is very similar to the agricultural policy that took place between 1945 and 1953, when such a agricultural policy gave up. Agricultural policy in the Republic of Serbia, such a policy is difficult to find in the world. However, our agricultural policies have a similarity with the agricultural policies of the former Eastern European countries, where food supplies were really cheap. But there, cheap agricultural supplies and cheap agricultural food products went with cheap prices of mineral fertilisers, diesel fuel, machinery, etc. So 100 kilos of mineral fertilizer was worth 10 marks, and it cost us 45 marks. There, a tractor could be purchased for a thousand and a half marks, at the time of implementing agricultural policies in the former Soviet republics and Eastern-European republics during the communist period. There, for a thousand and a half marks, a tractor could be purchased, and 15 thousand marks should be set aside for the tractor. Therefore, the agricultural policy currently under way does not respect the appropriate price parity, according to the Imputs and investments in agricultural production and external parities towards industrial goods, i.e. Mechanization - tractor. If the peasants get the money, if they get the right price for their agricultural products, believe me, they won't take that money to Cypriot and white-world banks. The villagers will buy machinery, spare parts, equipment, connected machines, mineral fertilizers for that money, and they will live, primarily the machinery industry. Maybe the peasants will also buy cars, and all together, so the workers who work in the machinery industry, buy goods of broad consumption, buy the confectionery, and thus live to produce. So you don't lose anything if you pay the peasants fair prices for their efforts, because for years they've been working like Mayans, and then some drones show up and take everything away from them. It's said on Serbian television that peasants get this, get that. Except for pneumonia and humpbacks, none of them got anything from this government, nor did they ask the government to do anything big. They only ask the government to stop taking and subtracting this much, because of the brand they invest in agricultural production they can barely single out and harvest 80 pfening. Agricultural production, or peasants, has primarily protected us from military and economic pressures on the outside for years and thanks only to them, and not to the agricultural policy that is being conducted, we have survived these military and political pressures on the outside. So they don't deserve this kind of treatment in this society at all. For this reason, we have long proposed that this be discussed in this National Assembly, and all of us, regardless of what parliamentary group we belong to, should discuss and adopt appropriate conclusions and laws. Thank you for your patience.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-05-03-0.u2012	I ask the MPs to set up a quorum to place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am putting on the vote by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević to supplement the agenda of this session - Proposal for a law on the protection of agricultural production and the adoption of safeguard prices for strategic agricultural products. For six, against 184, no one with abstention voted two, a total of 192 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, all the new points adopted shall be included in the agenda of the sitting in accordance with their proposal, i.e. acceptance. The proposals for acts adopted as new items of the agenda, the committees responsible, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, if they have not already done so, will submit their reports, or opinions during the course of the session. Since we have come to the conclusion of all the amendments and additions to the proposed agenda, I would like the Members of Parliament to make a statement on the agenda of the session in general. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. We've got quorum. ) I put to the vote the draft agenda of the session in general. For 186, three against, no one abstained, four MPs voted, 193 present in the hall. I find that the National Assembly by majority has established the agenda of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2000 as a whole. I ask the National Assembly's service to prepare a consolidated text on the agenda of the session and hand it over to the MPs. Dn e v n i r e d 1. Selection of allied emissaries to a larger republic of the Federal Assembly; 2. Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on a semi-trailer land. Before moving to the agenda, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on a permanent MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You have been presented with a proposal for a decision, which has been made by the Administrative Board. I'm opening a unique search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? He doesn't want to. Do any of the MPs want a word? He doesn't want to. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a unique search. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. We've got quorum. ) I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision on a Members of the People's Parliament on permanent work in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. For 189, no one, abstentioned, three voted, a total of 192 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the proposal for a decision on a permanent MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We move to the 1st item of the agenda:- THE COUNTRY MEMBER STATES TO THE MOST REPUBLIC OF THE FEED COMMUNITY I remind you that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, at the 1st session of the First Regular Session, on 11 April 2000, passed the Law on the selection of federal MPs in the Greater Republic of the Federal Assembly. Article 32. The law on the election of federal MPs to the Greater Republic of the Federal Assembly found that elections for MPs to the Greater Republic, under the provisions of this law, would take place within 15 days of the date of its entry into force. Since the Law entered into force on 21 April 2000, pursuant to Article 6. I called the National Assembly meeting today, May 3, 2000, at which the National Assembly will elect federal MPs to the Greater Republic of the Federal Assembly. Accordingly, we move on to the election of federal MPs to the Greater Republic of the Federal Assembly. On this occasion, I remind you that the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 80. The Constitution of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and Article 2(2). The law on the election of federal MPs to the Greater Republic of the Federal Assembly should elect 20 MPs to the Greater Republic of the Federal Assembly, out of the order of MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Members of the Council of the Republic, as referred to in Article 5(1). The law on the election of federal MPs to the Greater Republic of the Federal Assembly shall be chosen in proportion to the party composition of MPs in the National Assembly, and the number of MPs elected from the order of individual parliamentary groups, in accordance with Article 5(2). The law, established by the president of the National Assembly, which I wrote to the presidents of the parliamentary groups on 25 April 2000. On the basis of Article 15. You have reached a solution on the establishment of a summary electoral list for the election of federal MPs to the Greater Republic of the Federal Assembly, from the Republic of Serbia since 28 April 2000, which was adopted by the Commission to elect MPs to the Greater Republic of the Federal Assembly, as well as the minutes from the Commission's session to elect MPs to the Greater Republic of the Federal Assembly since 28 April 2000. As you have seen from the resolution on the announcement of a summary electoral list, proposals for MPs in the Greater Republic have been submitted by the following parliamentary groups: -- the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group -- to elect seven federal MPs from this parliamentary group -- submitted a proposal with 14 candidates -- the Yugoslav Left Group for the election of two federal MPs from this parliamentary group -- tabled a proposal with 14 candidates -- the Yugoslav Left Group -- to elect two federal MPs from this parliamentary group -- with four candidates. You have also seen from the solution to declare a summary election list for the election of federal MPs to the Greater Republic of the Federal Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that the Serbian Renewal Movement parliamentary group, from which it is, according to Article 5(2). The law, which was to elect four federal MPs, did not propose candidates for MPs in the Greater Republic. On this occasion, I remind you that, according to Article 16(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The law, when a parliamentary group does not propose candidates for Members of the Greater Republic, increases the number of MPs elected from the order of the parliamentary groups who have tabled proposals made in accordance with this law and in accordance with Article 16(2). The law, the National Assembly, determines, a proportion of the number of MPs that a certain parliamentary group has in the National Assembly, by which the number of MPs elected from the ranks of MPs who tabled proposals made in accordance with this law increases. Since I'm in agreement with Article 5(2). The law on the election of federal MPs to the Greater Republic of the Federal Assembly found that four MPs were elected from the Serbian Movement's parliamentary group to the Greater Republic, and the parliamentary group did not submit a proposal for candidates for MPs to the Greater Republic, the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 16(2). The law should establish that the election is carried out in proportion to the number of MPs elected from the order of parliamentary groups who have submitted proposals made in accordance with this law. Given that the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group has 89 MPs, the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group 83 MPs, and the parliamentary group of the Yugoslav Left 21st MPs -- which makes up 193 MPs, the proportional participation of those parliamentary groups in that total number is the following: - The ratio with which the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group participates in that number is 0.461, multiplied by four parliamentary mandates that are allocated to 1,84, and is rounded to two parliamentary mandates, - The ratio with which the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group participates in that number is 0.430, multiplied by four parliamentary mandates that are assigned to the 1,72, and is rounded to two parliamentary mandates, - the Collic with which the parliamentary group of Serbian Radical Party participates in the number of 0,44, which is not sent to the group of members of the United Nations with four, which belong to the four members of the group. In view of the above mentioned data, the Socialist Party Group of Serbia should belong to two more parliamentary mandates, the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group should belong to two more parliamentary mandates, which makes up a total of four mandates to be allocated, so it is necessary for the National Assembly, by applying Article 16(2). The law lays down the allocation of four parliamentary mandates. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am putting forward a motion to distribute four parliamentary mandates by increasing the number of MPs elected, namely the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group by two mandates and the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group by two mandates. For 185, against six, abstentioned no one, all voted, a total of 191 MPs were present in the hall. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal by majority vote. As the National Assembly accepted this proposal, I agree that nine MPs are elected from the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, from the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, and nine MPs, and from the Yugoslav Left parliamentary group, two MPs. I also find that the Commission for the Printing and Sealing of Votes will prepare a ballot in line with the Decision on the Announcing of the Assembly of the Federal MPs to elect the Greater Republic of the Federal Assembly, from the Republic of Serbia, and an increase in the number of MPs elected from the Socialist Party of Serbia and the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary groups, as established by the National Assembly. Since, according to Article 17. The law, the election of federal deputies by a secret ballot, requires that the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 123. The Rules of Procedure educates the Special Commission for the Printing and sealing of ballots, which should be made by one representative of each proposal. The Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group has appointed representatives of the Commission for Printing and Sealing of People's Lists of People's MPs Life of Cvetkovic, the Serbian Radical Party MP Slavko Neskovic's parliamentary group of Yugoslav left MP Milomir Mijatovic. Since the candidates for federal MPs have appointed their representatives in the Commission for the Printing and Sealing of Votes, I ask the MPs to place their cards in MPs for the purpose of determining the quorum. We have a quorum. I'm putting this proposal to a vote in general. For 181, against four, no one abstained, five did not vote, a total of 190 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal and has thus educated the Commission for the Printing and Sealing of Votes. I remind you, according to Article 123. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, President of the Commission for the Printing and sealing of ballots, the oldest MP from the ranks of the members of the Commission. The Commission will hold a meeting immediately in the second floor room. I am giving a 60-minute break, during which the Commission will prepare ballots. [[After break -13 hrs]] We're going back to work. A ballot printing and printing commission handed me the signed minutes and 250 ballots. Before moving to the vote, allow me to remind you of the provisions of the Law on the election of Federal MPs to the United Republic of the Federal Assembly, which relate to the procedure and the determination of the results of the vote and to inform you of how to conduct the secret vote. The election of federal MPs takes place by a secret vote on the ballot, which is Article 17. The law. The MP gets one ballot each. Each MP can only vote for as many candidates within the parliamentary group as the MPs are elected in the Greater Republic of that parliamentary group. The unfulfilled ballot is considered an unfulfilled ballot, a ballot so filled that it cannot be determined with certainty who the MP voted for and the ballot on which more candidates were circled than the number elected within the parliamentary group. The ballot box will be attended by a member of parliament appointed at a session of the National Assembly, which will oversee the introduction of ballots into the box. Voters' ballots are personally inserted into the ballot box. Following the final vote, the vote results are determined by the Commission for the election of MPs to the Greater Republic, on the basis of the ballots submitted. The Commission's rapporteur for the selection of MPs in the Greater Republic shall give information on how many MPs have voted in total, how many candidates each member of the parliamentary group have received votes and how many invalid ballots. When it is established that the number of ballots found in the ballot box after the end of the vote is greater than the number of MPs who voted, the vote is repeated. For MPs in the Greater Republic, candidates of the parliamentary group who received the largest number of votes within the number of MPs elected from the parliamentary group have been elected, with the number of candidates elected cannot be less than most of the members of parliament present, in accordance with Article 80(1). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. When two or more candidates of the parliamentary group get equal to the minimum number of votes, and the parliamentary group does not belong to that number of MPs in the Greater Republic, the vote is repeated in relation to these candidates until the required number of MPs is chosen. The Commission shall draw up a report to the National Assembly on the vote carried out. The President-in-Office of the European Parliament shall be appointed by the Commission. The handing over of ballots will be done by calling the MPs. Since Article 19 is Article 1. The law found that the ballot box should be attended by a member of parliament appointed at a session of the National Assembly, which oversees the inclusion of ballots in the ballot box, I propose that MP Goran Perčević oversee the introduction of ballots into the ballot box. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting this motion to the vote. The proposal was voted on by 158, against three, no one was abstentioned, one was not voted, and 162 MPs were present in total. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has accepted this proposal. National MP Goran Percevic, who has been ordered to oversee the inclusion of ballots in the ballot box, will hand over to the council to elect MPs to the Greater Republic after the vote is completed. Before we begin handing over ballots, I remind you that, according to Article 8(1). The law, the Commission for the Election of MPs to the Greater Republic, consists of the President of the National Assembly, the Secretary of the National Assembly and one MP from each parliamentary group who has proposed a list of candidates. I would like the MPs of Zoran Nikolic of the Socialist Party of Serbia, Dragoljub Stamenkovic of the Serbian Radical Party and Duško Radenovic of the Yugoslav Left, members of the Commission to elect MPs to the Greater Republic, to take seats next to the president. We start handing over ballots. I ask Dragoljub Stamenkovic, a member of the Commission, to call the MPs, to whom I will present the ballots immediately.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-05-03-0.u2014	Avramov Mita (taken list), Aksentijević Siniša (taken listić), Aleksić dr Gradimir (taken listić), Ameti Ramadan (not taken listić), Andjević Zoran (taken listić), Arsić Joca (taken listić), Atanačić Nebojša - Boban (not taken listić), Bajović Dr Snezana (not taken listić), Baković Dr Tatomir (taken listić), Barac Milun (taken listić), Bečić Igor (taken listić), Biači Antal (not present), Biro Dr Gezović (taken no listić), Blažić Milović (deo listić (taken Žožanjska listić). dr. dr. dražažažižić (bović listožić želja Žožić žević list), Božić ( is not present), Božiljić list), Božiljić (take list), Božić (take list), Božić (takedić list), Bož. Vladimir (taken a leaf).
ParlaMint-RS_2000-05-03-0.u2015	Is there anyone else who hasn't been read? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2000-05-03-0.u2016	Zdravković Milivoje (taken from the list), Vulović Srdjan (taken from the list), Gligorijević Zoran (taken from the list), Dramalic Miroslav, was not in the hall (taken from the list). That's all.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-05-03-0.u2017	Is there anyone else who hasn't been read? No, I don't. ( ) Since you have been given ballots, I am giving you time to vote until 15 o'clock. I'm taking a break until 3:00. Do your lunch, too. [[after breaks]] I would ask Dragoljub Stamenkovic, a member of the Commission, to make the call of the MPs, who will then approach the ballot box and insert ballots into it, and the secretary of the National Assembly, in the name and last name of the MP in the list, to indicate that the MP voted.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-05-03-0.u2019	As Milic Dimitrijevic is poor and ill, the Commission approved that he vote first. Dimitrijević Milić (vote), Avramov Mita (vote), Aksentijević Siniša (vote), Aleksic Dr Gradimir (vote), Ameti Ramadan (no vote), Angelković Zoran (vote), Arsic Joca (vote), Atanaković Nebojša - Boban (voting), Bajović Dr Snezana (no vote), Baković Dr Tatomir (vote), Barać Milun (vote), Bojavić Antal (voted), Biro Dr Geza (voted), Blažić Dr Milovan (voted), Božić Prof. Milovna (voted), Dr. Milovan (votedivna Str., Dr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Žaljavić (Zavirjavić) (Zlažaljavrjavrjavić (Zlažina) (Glasaožaljavrjavić Žlaž) (Glažalić Žlažalić Žlažalić). Vladimir (vote).
ParlaMint-RS_2000-05-03-0.u2020	Has everyone voted? Yeah. Thank you. I'm closing the vote and I'm asking Goran Perčević to hand over the ballot box. We'll count here, in the O.R. - Voting count. ) (A statement of the results of the vote at 1600). May I have your attention, please? We'll keep working and we'll give you the results. Of the 250 MPs, 192 MPs attended the vote. The ballots were taken over by 188 MPs, four refused to accept. Of the 250 ballots, taken over by the Commission for the Printing and Sealing of ballots, 62 ballots, which have been placed in a special envelope and sealed, have been ordered. The valid ballots were 188, invalid none. The results are as follows: As part of the Socialist Party's parliamentary group, Serbia's candidate for MPs: 1. Gorica Gajević received 188 votes; 2. Zoran Angelkovic, 188 votes; 3. Jela Veselic, 188 votes; 4. Dr. Karolj Kasash, 188 votes; 5. Bojan Kekić, 188 votes; 6. Dr Jovan Krkobibić, 188 votes; 7. Dobrivoje Budimirović Bija, 188 votes; 8. Velimir Bata Zivojinovic, 188 votes and 9. Duško Matkovic received 188 votes; 10. Milivje Miletic has not received any votes; 11. Ratomir Munitlak, he didn't get any votes; 12. Dragomir B. Nikolic, he didn't get any votes; 13. Dragomir Pavlovic, who received no votes and 14. Dragomir Radovanovic, who received no votes; within the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, the candidates received the following number of votes: 1. Tomislav Nikolic, 188 votes; 2. Alexander Vukic, 188 votes; 3. Stevo Dragisic, 188 votes; 4. Vojin Veljković, 188 votes; 5. Jovica Stojmenović, 188 votes; 6. Dragan Colic, 188 votes; 7. Lazar Marjanski, 188 votes; 8. Dragan Ljubojevic, 188 votes; 9. Miroljub Veljkovic, 188 votes; they did not get any votes: 1. Bozidar Vujic; 2. Dragan Milovanovic; 3. Dragoljub Pantic; 4. Tomislav Penezić and 5. Dr. Milovan Blazic. Under the Yugoslav Left: 1. Vladimir Stambuk, 118 votes; 2. Prof. Dr. Milovan Bojic, 188 votes; 3. Zoran Vukadinovic, he didn't get any votes; 4. Petar Miskovic, he didn't get a single vote. On the basis of Article 1(2), point (b) is replaced by the following: The law on the election of federal MPs to the Greater Republic of the Federal Assembly has been chosen: From the Socialist Party of Serbia: 1. Gorica Gajević, 2. Zoran Angelkovic, 3. Jela Veselic, 4. Dr. Karol Kasash, 5. Bojan Kekić, 6. Dr Jovan Krkobibić, 7. “ What Is It? ”? 8 / 8 Velimir Bata Zivojinović, 9. Duško Matkovic. From the Serbian Radical Party: 1. Tomislav Nikolic, 2. Alexander Vukic, 3. Stevo Dragisic, 4. Vojin Veljkovic, 5. Jovica Stojmenović, 6. Dragan Čolić, 7. Imprisoned, 9 / 8 Dragan Ljubojevic, 9. Miroljub Veljkovic. From the Yugoslav Left: 1. Dr. Vladimir Stambuk, 2. Dr. Milovan Bojic. The Committee for the Selection of MPs in the Council of the Republic of the Federal Assembly: Dragan Tomic, Snezana Đukic, Zoran Nikolic, Dragoljub Stamenkovic, Duško Radjenovic. The Commission will, on the basis of Article 24. By law, an elected MP shall issue confidence in the election of a federal MP to the Greater Republic of the Federal Assembly. Congratulations on the election. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Completion of Laws on Polyplicity Land You have been given a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have been presented with reports from the Committee on Agriculture and the Legislative Committee, which propose to the National Assembly to adopt the bill. I'm opening a principled search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? He has the word of Minister of Agriculture, Dr Jovan Babovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-05-03-0.u2022	Dear President, honourable MPs, agricultural land is the greatest wealth of our Serbia, because we have 5.7 million hectares of agricultural land, 4.7 million hectares of farmland and 3.6 million acres of orange land. Since land cannot be promised, that land is of the general social interest of our country, the aim of this law is to make maximum use of agricultural land, especially land-processing land, to use agricultural land rationally, and on the basis of significant increases and yields and total production in Serbia's agriculture. Just point out that, on the basis of professional records of our professional agricultural service, 250,000 hectares of orange surfaces are not being processed in the Republic. This is primarily said that land is not processed by non-agricultural households, mixed households, agricultural cooperatives and social enterprises. At the same time, it should be pointed out that 100,000 hectares per year cross, due to unquality land treatment, in meadows and pastures. All this says that we have to use rationally and engage in the maximum use of agricultural land. For these reasons, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed additions to the Agricultural Land Act, with the aim of introducing specific taxes on unused land. For these reasons, I would like to point out that all social agricultural enterprises, agricultural cooperatives, mixed households, which do not use agricultural land, from now on will pay an additional tax of 10 to 50,000 to the pakatstar class. 50,000 to the first cadastar class, 40 to the second, 30 to the third, 20 to the fourth and 10 to the fifth. At the same time, all these companies, including non-agricultural businessmen who use orchards and vineyards irrationally, will pay taxes50. 1,000 din. per hectare, as well as all these agricultural enterprises that do not use quality land from the irrigation system, will pay a tax of 100,000 din. a hectare. I would like to point out that non-agriculturals have 40% of orange surfaces. Therefore, it is clear that a clause in the Law, that non-agriculturals, practically, pay taxes on unprocessed land of 10-50,000 per catastrian morning. What is most important and what needs to be pointed out is that whoever does not pay taxes on unused agricultural land, after a month, the Ministry of Agriculture, based on a precise regulation, will clearly give land to farmers, then, agricultural cooperatives and agricultural enterprises, and on that basis, practically, ensure that the land is used rationally. In any case, in the end, I want to point out that this law has special interests and great benefits for our Republic of Serbia, farmers and peasants and all agricultural enterprises that successfully process agricultural land. I think that this law is also instructive for all those who have failed to use agricultural land, especially land processing, and on this basis will give one ton more successful and rational use of land and use this natural wealth that is ecologically clean and that enables the production of bio-high-quality and healthy food. I welcome you and I want to pass this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-05-03-0.u2023	Do any of the MPs want a word? There's a word from MP Dragan Veselinov.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-05-03-0.u2024	My fellow Members and MPs, Mr. Minister of Agriculture, I am very unhappy with this bill of law, which you have submitted. This is the kind of law that I believe, in these circumstances, no sound government would offer. This law is a fruit of unsustainable consciousness. This law is part of that spirit that I used to fight, the spirit of the earth's maximum, the spirit that forbids peasants to buy tractors until 1966, the spirit that forbade peasants to engage in external labour. You never attack a large possession of criminal taxes. If both large and small possessions of tax penalties are attacked at the same time, then it is the government's fault. It is impossible in the country, especially that in which Vojvodina exists, a Moravia peasant, a masculine peasant, is attributed in such conditions to mentality or hire hundreds of thousands of people that do not purposely process the land without seeing that, first of all, they are guilty of such an unsuitable agrarian and conditions in our country. Rather, the government should resign or the Minister of Agriculture because of such a proposal. Such a law that attacks tax fines, small property, will lead to the country's sudden sale and the country's drop in price, and will allow large-scale manipulators to take a part of the land for themselves. That's one thing. Secondly, this is more of an attack on mixed holdings and on social ones, which are left over, and on cooperatives for tax purposes, but it won't lead to the placement of unprocessed land. It punishes mixed ownership, farms, companies for the unprocessed land when there is an alternative workforce, which is no longer available or there is a capable mechanism that will be placed in agriculture. We don't have that. We have a mechanism about 19 to 20 years old, a tractor, a combination of over 20 years old, no incentives in agriculture. The interest that the state owes to unsettled debts to peasants stands, manure regresses are not paid, they do not exist, milk premiums are not paid or paid with a huge delay. It has long been known that our peasant, duchy, Moravia, according to the analysis of many agrarian economists, belongs to a group of the best farmers in the world. This abstinence from agriculture is not the fruit of their ignorance, it is the fruit of enormous poverty and the inability to accumulate in agriculture. I don't know who you've been consulting about this thing with. Have you consulted with workers, with the Union of Workers in Agriculture, with any peasant party, with chambers of commerce, with business communities, with cooperative alliances, I don't know, it's possible you've consulted with someone. Although, if you had consulted anyone, I don't think you'd get any support for this. This is an old idea, and I know whose idea it is. This is the old idea of those who represented the maximum land, so they think they can do this now. Why doesn't it happen that once you punish the Iron Man who manufactures mushrooms? Why are you attacking agriculture? Why are those tax fines being shot at? Our industry works with below 40% capacity. Why doesn't the government offer tax penalties to the entire industry? Why does he keep offering it to agriculture? You haven't made that move yet. Why don't you set the fines by the aris, why by the acres? This is a law against the duchy agricultural land. He's gonna pay these fines. This is a law against duchy agriculture, because in it are the mains of social holdings and cooperatives that can't for economic reasons process agricultural land. Why don't you once bring the fines to the aris, but persist in the hectares? Why don't you tell us who you're gonna punish? What's an unprocessed land? Is that an unconfirmed country? Is that unsowed land? Is that a land that has not been taken off? Is that the land that was killed by the groundwaters? Is this the land of old-timers' land, and there are hundreds of thousands of them? How can you expect seniors to pay tax fines? She won't be able to do it. You're going to show a lot of peasants who have a different country in which they don't live, you're going to show them because they're not being treated, and in this country it's not possible to get to the elevator, with difficulties coming to the seeds, prices are constantly depressing, and who are we punishing here? This won't bring the land back to function. Perhaps a number of large-scale manipulators will get land on the basis of the right to be used by those who, due to economic circumstances, cannot do so, but essentially, this government will attack again agriculture and mixed peasant ownership, cooperative and social ownership tax. Exactly what you're doing, it's that you're constantly punishing. Why don't you pass a law on free trade in agricultural products in our country, on the free export of agricultural products, as proposed by the Vojvodina Coalition? Why don't you pass a law on a new pension-involvement insurance for farmers, where the fund would be charged from 3% of the sales tax, and every farmer at 65 years old gets that, and a housekeeper at 60 years old? Why not pass a law to free farmers from taxes, contributions, taxes and all charges for mineral fertilisers, diesel fuel, seed, plant protection, livestock food, animal health, machinery, spare parts and agricultural services? Why punishment? Why not encourage? Why not freedom? Why the immediate limit? This is supposed to be the way to get a few billion dinars into tax. Only calculate by a minimum tax tax tax or this fine tax of 10,000 dinars per hectare, that times 250,000, how much money it should bring. There's no one to pay. You're entering some special pseudoagrarian revolution. You couldn't have made a nicer gift to the opposition. That's exactly what I'm looking forward to. It's the majority of the agrarian population today. You're dealing with agrarian workers in cooperatives and social holdings. You may have estimated that it's good, but I'm not going into political aspects of things, it's not going to yield results in agriculture. You will suffer only new attacks, and there will be no new production in agriculture. I ask you answers to these questions. I want you to say how you pictured it, what kind of owners are you going to attack, what numbers are you counting on to go into the state budget, and why is that money going to be used?
ParlaMint-RS_2000-05-03-0.u2025	Thank you. Are any of the other MPs answering for a word? The word is Lazar Marjanski, a National MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-05-03-0.u2026	Dear People's MPs, Your Honor, I'd like to say a few words about the law that was proposed. Namely, this law can be discussed by one who has a country. This is one law that promises something. What's this about? I'm sure there's a lot of unprocessable surfaces. Most of it's in the social-state sector. Where the host is, there's no unprocessed land. What do you get with this law? We can say as in agriculture, which is the easiest thing to say, what we lose. We can always tell what we lost, that we could do more. So, 250,000 acres, as Mr. Minister has said, to just take three and a half tons of wheat per hectare, that's one average of 875,000 tons of wheat per year. If this turned to how much flour -- average required for Yugoslavia about two million and two hundred thousand tonnes, the average of 200 to 220kg of wheat per capita is some average. We get 496,000 tons of flour and about 380,000 tons of mecca and other by-products that go up the grind. If we turn it into corn, we get about 1,100,000 tons of corn a year. These surfaces that are unprocessed pose a great danger because there is a wild orphan, which I've talked about before. It's for all the other fields around here. That wild orphan must be one big evil. Approximately, percent, where the surfaces are infected with cheese from 10 to 15% in the morning or in the field are polluted with cheese. And what else do you get? Those who want to work can work. There are very few unprocessed surfaces in my Melenci. Very little. Until the neighboring village of Kumana, or farming cooperative, those who do not know how to water it have come to be and have not cut down the wheat since last year. Not to mention corn. That's why those surfaces are so much. I'm not saying there's something else in this law that needs to be added. But the bottom line is whoever wants to work can. I didn't count the profits of people who don't like to work the country, give to other farmers, and, Mr. Vesenov, there are in the Melenci and the surrounding people who work about two thousand acres. That means a thousand and a few acres. Around bigger places, and all those surfaces are processed, only when someone wants to work. I'm sure it's a big profit and money. Maybe the government thought, and I would suggest to the government that some of that money should be directed into fighting and protecting against weeds and orphans. It's very dangerous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-05-03-0.u2027	Thank you. He has the word National MP Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-05-03-0.u2028	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, regarding this bill, as if I knew, on April 11th, I asked a parliamentary question to the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Agriculture. I don't know if the minister got that question. I asked him - under what law "Agrounia" has been issuing thousands and five hundred acres of land for years, by direct contract, without competition, by other legal and private persons, to make one of them, and that is most likely a long-term contract, renting land that is not "Agrounia", but the state is the land (a voice - it is not a topic)... Yes, it is. Agricultural land is a theme. But the state granted the farm land to "Agrounia", and she fired 50% of the workers, and she leased a thousand and five hundred hectares to another legal and private person, with a direct contract and no competition, and this one took it and made some buildings there, on a land where workers made income and received wages for years. Of course I didn't get an answer to that question. And according to this law, this agricultural organisation, that combination is not covered by this law. Because he rents the land. So he's not working it yet. There is another agricultural organization that does not enjoy, or process, the land it has received from the state, but has bought it with its own work. E, the agricultural organization, or association, has ordered the Ministry of Agriculture to sow 200 hectares of sugar tail. Since these didn't have enough farmland to sow 200 acres of sugar tail, then they had to re-prove just to keep the barley. Is this true, sir... No, if you're saying I made this up, I'll bet my head if I made this up. [[Comment from the O.R. Can't be heard]] And you pawn yours, for it is not worth much anyway. [[Laughter]] The Minister of Agriculture here said... [[growls]]
ParlaMint-RS_2000-05-03-0.u2029	Please be quiet. Let the MP speak, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-05-03-0.u2030	The agriculture minister said the bill would increase the yield. Why are the offerings small? Because for years this government has led such a policy that it has first trade unionally and politically broken agricultural producers, both social and individual, and then they were an easy target for this government. The government then limited the market and gained the conditions to buy agricultural products from agricultural producers in a waste-free manner by prohibiting trade in the environment, banning trade outside Serbia without the government's permission. And what the government paid for didn't cost much. She simply paid with money, money without cover behind which no slave stands. Which the peasants bloodyly make three times as much money as the rest of them. All of this resulted in a drop in yield.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-05-03-0.u2031	Please allow the MP to speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-05-03-0.u2032	That's why the contribution per unit of land fell, so only because of the government's irresponsible agricultural policy. You said here that 250,000 hectares of farmland were unprocessed. You're in collegiate with Serbian Radio-Television. We have heard for years that all agricultural land in Serbia has been processed. Now you've said something else. For days, RTS has said that the crop has been done at 100%, to 110% of the farmland, and you now go out and say - 250 000 hectares of agricultural land has not been processed. Furthermore, you claim that this law will make peasants happy, who will be given the opportunity to process this agricultural land, which agricultural organisations, or mixed households, cannot process and that you will be able to process this land unless one who does not process that agricultural land and pays a fine of 50,000 dinars, and you claim that this amount is equal to the income per unit of surface. I don't know any peasants, not a single agricultural organization that managed to make 50,000 dinars per hectare in Vojvodina. If I remind you, that would be 40 tons of wheat per hectare somewhere, and speaking of wheat, that price hasn't changed in three to four years, the price of wheat has gone up by 25%, and inflation was 600 percent. So, I don't think you have anyone to give this country to if you plead to the peasants, the old peasants, with an out-of-date mechanism give 250 thousand extra acres for processing, I can't believe it. Today old peasants, who are rarely very little older than their mechanics, fall directly off the machine into bed and after a brief illness, due to the carelessness, social and health care of the state towards them, die. These are people who have worked bloodyly for years, people who have produced millions of tons of food, and rarely die alone... So I don't believe that you have agricultural producers, peasants, individuals, what do you want to call it, to which you can add the new 250,000 acres of farmland so that they can process and generate income that you appreciate is 50,000 dinars per hectare. I know what hurts the government. Government owes huge amount of agricultural products to Russians for gas and for external payment Sir, sir, I'll give you a little courtesy. [[Laughter]] The infidelity remains that even the peasants who want to get their hands on the country's surpluses if you claim to profit from this. What I know will certainly happen, and this law will happen very soon in this assembly to see new changes and additions, where you will say that all these criminal measures apply to peasants as well. This is just the first step in resuscitating the avets of the past in leather coats, which will rip out our mustaches. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-05-03-0.u2033	There is a word from MP Milos Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-05-03-0.u2034	The Honorable Presidency, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, as far as I understand the content of this law, has points of contact with one of the series of laws that this assembly has passed, which is the law on the return of agricultural land to certain entities. Statistical data tells us, and this is what Mr. Minister said, that there are about 250,000 hectares of unprocessed agricultural land during the year, and that most of that agricultural land is now owned by those outside the area where this land is and is located. Therefore, there are fewer organisations that are of state or social character, where this agricultural land remains unprocessed, due to poor policy perhaps, which is trying to impose here, which the Serbian government is leading towards the agricultural budget. This law, according to us radicals, has a stimulating character, a stimulating character on one side, with the goal of making better use of the land for agricultural production, and less to turn it into pastures and meadows. The second thing I was going to say is that, on the other hand, a special tax is being introduced. He aims to make better use of that agricultural land. Furthermore, the possibility of confiscation of so inadequately used land and of handing over to other entities for use, for one simple reason, for these entities to group, to group their agricultural land, and on the other hand, is being stimulated by the release of parts of the tax on that land that is inadequately used. I believe that the proposed solution to this law is good and I believe that this government should have proposed this law before, and for my part, I support it and I suggest that my colleagues adopt it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-05-03-0.u2035	There's a word from MP Dragan Dimic.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-05-03-0.u2036	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I went out especially in front of this pay phone to tell my fellow citizen, Marijan Rističević, that he has spoken a great lie about this pay phone today. At our place in Srem, the Podunavecs say, when someone's talking nonsense, they're "grabbing waves on the Danube." Now, that's how Mr. Risticevic did today, which he told a notorious lie that "Agrounia" from India pre-earned wheat, young wheat, barley, and sowing tails. But it's not true, he's lying. He's lying because I know for a fact that the Srem County has determined the municipalities and quantities that will sow with his sugar tail. The Indjia municipality had one 35 acres, and it was assigned to Agrounia to sow. However, part of the country at its disposal prepared for corn and these cultures to come. He doesn't know anything about overdoing but planted land, and you can get it responsibly from "Agrounia." So, no barley, no wheat, nothing else. In the future, we will have to prove all these untruths to the people of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-05-03-0.u2037	Marijan Risticevic is looking for a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-05-03-0.u2038	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, at the beginning of my presentation I really mentioned "Agrounia," but I said that "Agrounia"... (galama in the O.R.)
ParlaMint-RS_2000-05-03-0.u2039	Please allow the MP to speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-05-03-0.u2040	Okay, I'm a traitor, a liar, let me speak now. It's an honor to be a traitor to your politics. Your politics and cheap patriotism killed me five relatives, and my policy didn't kill you. Because of my policy, no one's house burned down, because of my policy, no one's been expelled because of my policy, and now let me speak. I said that "Agrounia" by direct contract, without competition, had leased 1,500 acres, that it was the first organization, and for the second organization, I had led it to own its own country, and it was a peasant labor group, a fellow citizen, to tell. They were ordered, through the Srem County, by the Serbian government, to sow 200 hectares of sugar tail. Since they didn't have that much land for it, because people, among other things, are growing coke stretches, and since they planned to produce earlier, they've re-arranged the barley, but saved it, and sown the sugar tail. So, I didn't say "Agrounia" planted sugar tail. She almost doesn't sow, she rents out the land, and I said it was a country that the state put to use, for processing, for workers to receive wages. They fired 50% of the workers, and you know it well, and you know who they're renting 1,500 acres to. Are you saying they didn't? Here, here, say they're not. And for another organization, Mr. Minister, you listened, you know, to another organization I told you that she owned her own land, which she bought with her own work, and that they were given orders across the Srem County to sow 200 acres of sugar tail. (Glass: You're a traitor. I'm a traitor to your politics. I'm a traitor to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-05-03-0.u2041	There is a word from MP Dragan Dimic, a reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-05-03-0.u2042	It was necessary to state what a farming cooperative, with how many countries, or what the country's move has to do with the agricultural cooperative. I know them in the territory of the Inji municipality, and I know how much property they own, and let's see who that "Agrounia" "below hand" sold or gave land to build some objects of dubious character. Let's see if we can get out of here for a pay phone and say so and so. But that's also a notorious lie. Everything that was done in this work, it was legally done, it was within the municipality, which the municipality had, and the municipality has the right to bid for certain facilities, certain purposes, to offer them to citizens, means to those who are interested. So, that part also doesn't stand, and I think that from today, most likely, as far as the Indji municipality's territory is concerned, if some false things are brought out, I'm going to have to report regularly, because otherwise we can't contain the truth and Serbian citizens are in a certain way deceived by certain statements of MPs, which absolutely do not correspond to the truth. That's the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-05-03-0.u2043	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? The People's MP Jela Veselic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-05-03-0.u2044	Dear Presidency, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I don't think agriculture and our peasants deserve to be abused and certain untrues spoken by those MPs who have no responsibility for the publically spoken word. This should serve them honor, and we today have a bill, which has been offered by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is in fact an addition to the Law on the Use of Agricultural Land. Very short, clear, and the basic objectives of the proposal are known to complement the Law on land use. In his opening presentation, the Minister of Agriculture gave an explanation and highlighted enough the importance of agricultural land, that it is our national wealth and we are obliged to protect it, as all countries of the developed world do. In fact, these amendments and the additions to the law we literally stimulate good hosts, good and valuable agricultural producers, and we punish, and we need to sanction those who do not manage in the right way with national wealth. This law should lead to better use of agricultural land, to the accumulation of agricultural land and to the halting of the migration of the agricultural population from the village to the city. I think these explanations are enough to say that MPs, above all, will give support to the proposed law and I personally think that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Resolute Ministry should also think very quickly about the adoption of legislation that will regulate hereditary policy in the succession of agricultural land, because such a law feels the need among those who deal exclusively with agricultural production. I think this law will come up with support, and above all those good, hardworking warlords and cattlemen whose agriculture is basic and only occupation. As a country, we will all benefit as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-05-03-0.u2045	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I'm finishing the initial search. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I put to the vote the draft law supplementing the Agricultural Land Act in principle. For 166 MPs, three against, none abstention, two did not vote, a total of 171 were present in the hall. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. Is anyone answering for a word? Nobody. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a search of the bill in particular. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I put to the vote the draft law supplementing the Law on Agricultural Land, in general. For 163, no one against, no one abstention, two MPs didn't vote, 165 total present in the hall. I find that the National Assembly has adopted most of the votes the draft law supplementing the Agricultural Land Act. This is an exhaustive agenda. Thank you for your patience. I'll see you at the next meeting of the National Assembly.
