ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-12-0.u2046	Dear People's MPs, I am opening a session of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2000. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 184 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to place their identification cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. Informing the National Assembly that I have approved the absence of the following MPs: Duško Matkovic, Dr Milet Novakovic, Dr Biro Gezi and Milan Rodic. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. You were presented the minutes of the 2nd session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2000, held on 3 May 2000. Any objections to the record? No, there isn't. ) Since there are no objections to the record, we move to a decision on the record in general. I ask the MPs to set up a quorum to place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am voting on the minutes of the 2nd session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2000, held on 3 May 2000. For 183, no one, with abstentions, voted two, a total of 185 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 2nd session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2000, held on 3 May 2000, without objections. You have accepted the resignation of Peter Miskovic as MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the report by the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the examination of this resignation, with a proposal that the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 102(2) and Article 2(2) and 3. The law on the election of MPs finds the end of the mandate of MP Petar Miskovic on the day of his resignation. In accordance with Article 102(2), point 2 is replaced by the following: On a proposal from the Administrative Board, the National Assembly finds that the term of office had ceased before the end of the time elected to MP Petar Miskovic, elected from the Socialist Party of Serbia, the Yugoslav Left - New Democracy - Slobodan Milosevic, in election unit 8 - Sombor, on the day of his resignation. According to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the vacancy in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be completed. Having obtained the conditions, I propose that we establish the mandate of the People's MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for a vacant parliamentary post, in order to enable him to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been presented with a report by the Republic Election Commission on the election of a MP in the 28-Pristina electoral unit to fill a vacant parliamentary seat in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Also, you were presented with a report by the Administrative Board, which found that conditions had been met for confirming the mandate of the MP, with a proposal that the National Assembly, as set out in Article 30(5), would be granted. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs finds confirmation of the mandate to MP Ljubinko Bozic, elected from the Socialist Party of Serbia's electoral list, the Yugoslav Left, New Democracy - Slobodan Milosevic, in election unit 28 - Pristina. On the basis of the report of the Republic Election Commission and the report and the proposal of the Administrative Committee, as referred to in Article 30(5). The Law on the Selection of Members of the People, I hereby confirm the mandate of the People's MP Ljubinko Christmas. Congratulations to the People's MP on the election. Dear People's MPs, calling for the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2000, which was called upon at the request of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, pursuant to Article 79(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 162. [[Applause]] The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been submitted to you for the maintenance of the First Emergency Session under an emergency procedure, with a set agenda, contained in that request. Before the beginning of the session, you were given a letter informing the National Assembly of the first extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2000, instead of being delivered, to the National Assembly of Serbia on 11 July this year, which set out the following Dn e d e d 1. Decision and selection of members of the Government; 2. Resolution and selection of a number of judicial functions holders; 3. Proposal for a law on the sale of certain immovableities in state property in order to meet the obligations of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of foreign exchange savings of citizens and loans for economic development in the Republic of Serbia; 4. Proposal for a law on the first emissions of long-term bonds of the Republic of Serbia; 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on Excises and Taxes on Transport; 6. Proposal for a law on public undertakings and the exercise of action of general interest; 7. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Community Taxes and Refunds; 8. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Animal Health Act. At the same time, the Government proposed that those points, in agreement with the provisions of Article 157. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia are under review by emergency procedure. We're going to work on a set agenda. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: - DEROCTION AND CHOICE OF THE MEMBER STATES OF SERBIA YOU have been presented with a proposal from the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia for the resolution and selection of members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Does the Prime Minister, Mirko Marjanovic, want to explain the proposal? He wants to. ) There is a word from the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mirko Marjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-12-0.u2047	Dear President, the honourable MPs, as you have been informed, Dr Leposava Milicevic has moved on to a new duty. I propose to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that, as a result of going to a new post, the health minister, Dr Leposavu Milicevic, be relieved. Let me thank Leposavi Milicevic for her previous engagement in this responsible work, as well as to wish her success in her further work. At the same time, I propose to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to elect Milovan Bojic, born in 1955, doctor of medical sciences, professor of the University of Belgrade, director of the Institute of Cardiovascular Diseases, MP and vice-president of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Prof. Dr. Milovan Bojic will continue to serve as Deputy Prime Minister at the same time. I also suggest that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia elect Dr Kata Lazovic, born in 1936, as Minister of Education. The University of Belgrade's Natural Mathematical Faculty graduated in 1964, the University of Belgrade Faculty of Philosophy in 1979. At the Faculty of Organizational Sciences, the University of Belgrade defended doctoral dissertation in 1995 and acquired the scientific calling of a doctor of technical science. She was an adviser to the minister of education and head of the Department of Education for Professional and Administrative Oversight in Belgrade. He is now an assistant minister of education for pre-school and primary education and education. Dr Kata Lazovic has published several professional papers and is the winner of more social recognitions. I am convinced that Dr Kata Lazovic, in view of her previous work engagement, will contribute to the effective work of the Ministry of Education, and therefore I suggest that you choose Dr Kata Lazovic as Minister of Education in the Government of National Unity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-12-0.u2048	I thank the Prime Minister. I am opening a search on the Prime Minister's proposal to resolve Dr Leposava Milicevic's post as Minister of Health in the Government of the Republic of Serbia for going to a new post. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Since no one's answering for a word, I'm closing the search. I remind you that the decision to dismiss members of the government is considered adopted if it was voted by most of the total number of MPs. We move to a decision on the Prime Minister's proposal to resolve Dr Leposava Milicevic's role as Minister of Health in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I am putting on the vote by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia to resolve Dr Leposava Milicevic's role as Minister of Health in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. For 179, no one, with three abstentions, voted two, a total of 184 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has by majority resolved Dr Leposava Milicevic's post as Minister of Health in the Government of the Republic of Serbia for going to a new post. Before moving to a decision, I remind you that, according to Article 187(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union shall apply. The Rules of Procedure, a proposal to elect members of the government of the Republic of Serbia, is decided in general by a secret vote, unless the National Assembly decides to vote publicly. Is there a proposal to vote publicly on the Prime Minister's proposal to elect two members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia? There's a word from the MP of Life Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-12-0.u2049	I propose that a proposal by the Prime Minister to elect two members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia be voted publicly, using an electronic voting system.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-12-0.u2050	Thank you. Since the MP's proposal must be decided, I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am putting on the vote by MP Zika Cvetkovic to decide on the government's proposal to elect two members of the government of the Republic of Serbia by public vote - using an electronic voting system. For 172, against one, a abstentioned one, did not vote 10, a total of 184 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided to vote publicly on the government's proposal to elect two members of the government of the Republic of Serbia -- using an electronic voting system. Since the National Assembly has decided to vote publicly on the government's proposal to elect two members of the Serbian government, using an electronic voting system, the National Assembly will declare this proposal as a whole. I remind you that, according to Article 92(2), paragraph 2. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 187(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the decision to elect members of the Government, is considered adopted if voted for by the majority of the total number of MPs. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. We have a quorum. I put to the vote the Prime Minister's proposal to elect two members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia - Minister of Health and Minister of Education in general. For 178, against four, the abstentioned one, did not vote four, a total of 187 MPs present. Since the Prime Minister's proposal for the election of the Minister of Health and Education in the Government of the Republic of Serbia voted 178 MPs, representing most of the number of MPs, I find that the National Assembly has chosen: First, Professor Milovan Bojic for the Minister of Health in the Government of the Republic of Serbia; Second, Dr Katu Lazovic as Minister of Education in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Allow me to congratulate Professor Milovana Bojic, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia in your name and in my capacity as Minister of Health and Dr Kati Lazovic on the post of Minister of Education in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Alaus. ) I ask the newly elected member of the Government Dr Katu Lazovic to comply with Article 6. The Law on the Government of the Republic of Serbia, approaches to take an oath. Please stand up.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-12-0.u2051	I swear that in my work, I will abide by the Constitution and the law and that I will perform my duties as a member of the Government responsibly and securely.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-12-0.u2052	I ask Dr Kata Lazovic to sign and hand over the oath text. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: - DEROVAL AND CHOICE OF ONE NUMBER OF JUSTICE FUNCTIONS Within this point, you have received proposals from the Committee on Justice and Administration, and this is: 1. Proposal for a decision on the discharge from the court's office of judges of general jurisdiction and of the High Court of Commerce; 2. Proposal for a decision on discharge from the judge's office of the Supreme Court of Serbia; 3. Proposal for a decision to relieve the judge of the District Court in Belgrade; 4. Proposal for a decision on a discharge from the Judge of the District Court in Pogorevec; 5. Proposal for a decision on discharge from the Judge of the Municipal Court in Pogorevec; 6. Proposal for a decision on the discharge of the Judge of the Municipal Court in Leposavic; 7. Proposal for a decision on discharge from the office of President of the Municipal Court in Novi Sad; 8. Proposal for a decision on discharge from the duties of the District Attorney in Pozarevec; 9. Proposal for a decision on the termination of the court's office to judges of general jurisdiction and economic courts; 10. [[Applause]] Proposal for a decision on the termination of the functions of public prosecutors; 11. Proposal for a decision on the termination of the Judgeship of Judges of District and Municipal Courts; 12. Proposal for a decision on the election of judges of the Supreme Court of Serbia; 13. Proposal for a decision on the selection of judges and presidents of district and municipal courts; 14. Proposal for a decision on the selection of judges of economic courts, and 15. Proposal for a decision on the selection of jury judges of the General Court and the Economic Court in Somboro. In addition, you have received proposals for selecting the deputy public prosecutor, district attorneys; deputy district attorneys, with an addition; municipal public prosecutors, with a supplement; and deputy municipal public prosecutors, submitted by the Republic Public Prosecutor on 7 and 10 April, respectively, on 10 July 2000. You also received a report from the Committee on Justice and Administration on the examination of the proposal for decisions to elect public prosecutors. National MP Milan Mikovic, a member of the Committee on Justice and Administration, issued an opinion on the committee's statement on the motions for a resolution from the judge's office: the judge of the General Court and the High Court of Commerce, judges of the District Court in Belgrade and judges of the District and Municipal Court in Požarevec. I propose that all motions for decisions on the resolution and selection of judicial officers be subject to a single search, and that the National Assembly be particularly clear on each proposal. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 171 against five, the abstentions were not voted by eight, a total of 184 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. Consent to Article 156. Rules of Procedure, I am opening a single search on motions for decisions on the resolution and selection of judicial holders. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Do any of the MPs of the people want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a unique search and we move on to a decision. 1. We move to a vote on a motion for a decision to dismiss the court's office of judges of general jurisdiction and the High Court of Commerce. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the motion to vote. For 171 against five, the abstentioned were not voted seven, a total of 183 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted, most of the votes, the motion for a decision to dismiss the court's duties as judges of general jurisdiction and the High Court of Commerce. 2. We move to a vote on a motion for a decision to dismiss the court's duty as judge of the Supreme Court of Serbia. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the motion to vote. For 167, there are no 7 abstentions, no five, a total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the motion for a decision to dismiss the judge's duty as Serbian Supreme Court judge. 3. We move to a vote on a motion for a decision to dismiss the court's duties as judge of the District Court in Belgrade. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the motion to vote. For 167 against seven abstentions, there was no 7. A total of 181 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the motion for a decision to disband the court's duties as judge of the District Court in Belgrade. 4. We move to a vote on a motion for a decision to dismiss the judge's office in the District Court in Pogorevec. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the motion to vote. For 164, there are no 7 abstentions, no vote of 10, a total of 181 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the motion for a resolution from the judge's office of the District Court judge in Pogorevec. 5. We move to a vote on a motion for a decision to dismiss the judge of the Municipal Court in Pogorevec. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the motion to vote. For 174, there are no 7 abstentions, no four votes, a total of 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the motion for a decision to disband the judge of the Municipal Court in Pogorevec. Six. We move to a vote on a motion for a decision to dismiss the judge of the Municipal Court in Leposavic. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the motion to vote. For 168, there are no 7 abstentions, no 9. A total of 184 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the motion for a decision to dismiss the court's duties as judge of the Municipality's Court of Justice in Leposavic. Seven. We move to a vote on a motion for a decision on the discharge from the office of the President of the Municipal Court in Novi Sad. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the motion to vote. For 176, there are no 7 abstentions, no two, a total of 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the motion for a decision to dismiss the office of the President of the Municipal Court in Novi Sad. 8. We move to a vote on a motion for a decision on the discharge of the district attorney's office in Pogorevec. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the motion to vote. For 167, there are no 7 abstentions, no 9 votes, a total of 183 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the motion for a resolution from the district attorney's office in Pogorevec. Nine. We move to a vote on a motion for a decision to suspend the court's office to judges of general jurisdiction and economic courts. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the motion to vote. For 176, there are no 7 abstentions, not one, a total of 184 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has, by majority vote, adopted a motion for a decision to suspend the court's office to the judges of general jurisdiction and economic courts. Ten. We move to a vote on a motion for a decision to suspend the court's office to the public prosecutor's office. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the motion to vote. For 167 against four, the abstentions were not voted 13, a total of 184 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the motion for a decision on the termination of the post of public prosecutor. 11. We move to a vote on a motion for a decision to suspend the court's office to judges of district and municipal courts. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the motion to vote. For 172, there are no 7 abstentions, no vote of 8, a total of 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the motion for a decision to suspend the judge's office to judges of district and municipal courts. 12. We move to a vote on the proposal for a decision on the election of Serbian Supreme Court judges. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards on the MP's team. We have a quorum. I'm putting the motion to vote. For 172, there are no 7 abstentions, no five, a total of 184 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the proposal for a decision on the election of judges of the Supreme Court of Serbia. 13. We move to a vote on the motion for a decision on the election of judges and presidents of district and municipal courts. I ask the Members of Parliament to put their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the motion to vote. For 168, against 7, no one abstained, voted 8, a total of 183 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the motion for a decision to elect judges and president of district and municipal courts. 14. We move to a vote on the motion for a decision on the choice of judges and president of economic courts. I ask the Members of Parliament to put their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the motion to vote. For 168, against 7, no abstentions, no 7. A total of 182 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the motion for a decision on the choice of judges and president of economic courts. 15. We move to a vote on the motion for a decision on the election of jury judges of the General Court and the Court of Commerce in Sombor. I ask the Members of Parliament to put their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the motion to vote. For 170, against 7, there were no abstentions, no five votes, a total of 182 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the motion for a decision to elect judges of the jury of the General Court and the Court of Commerce in Sombor. We move to a vote on election proposals: - Deputy Prosecutor of the Republic; - District Attorneys; - Deputy District Attorneys, with the addition of the decision proposal; - Deputy Public Prosecutors, with the addition of the draft decision. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the motions to the vote. For 174, against 7, no one abstained, voted five, a total of 186 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the motions for decisions. Let me, on your behalf and mine, congratulate the elected holders of judicial functions and wish them success in their work. We move to the third 3rd agenda: - Proposal for a Law on the Sale of Certain Immobilities in State Property in order to reconcile the obligations of the Republic of Serbia under the basis of the currency savings of citizens and loans for economic development in the Republic of Serbia have been adopted by the draft law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments from MP Marijan Risticevic. You have received a report from the Finance Committee, which has adopted the bill in principle and in particular and proposes to the National Assembly to adopt it. You have received a report from the Legislative Committee, which adopted the draft law in principle and in particular, by proposing that in Article 19, in order to specify that it is a function of the Ministry of Finance, the word "functioner", is replaced by "Minister". This is because, under the State Administration Act (Article 71)) only officials who operate the authorities of the state administration may adopt sublegal acts. This proposal of the Legislative Committee was agreed by a representative of the proposings at the Committee's session. At the session of the Legislative Committee, the opinion was set out by MP Milan Mikovic. Does MP Milan Mikovic want a word? No, because he's not there. ( b) Does the promoter want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-12-0.u2053	Dear President, honourable MPs, for today's session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the government is proposing laws to ensure the regulation of debts based on the foreign currency savings of citizens, as well as the debts of the Republic based on children's supplements and maternal supplements. Also, a addition of the law is proposed to ensure more adequate and progressive use of 3% of funds for the city of Belgrade. I will refer to all three laws in this presentation, because in the scope of the government's efforts and joint activities to realise economic policy in the context of conditions which, in addition to the successful implementation of the basic objectives of economic policy, create additional solutions that regulate the relevant material and social rights of citizens, which have not been implemented in the previous period. So, in addition to the completion of the first phase of reconstruction, in addition to the great effort to create the initial and necessary conditions for the decommissioned factories and economic systems to be put on their feet and contribute to the increase of the overall social product, which characterized the previous period, conditions were created for entering the second phase of reconstruction, which is in fact a development. Last night's freeway release of Belgrade-Panchev practically showed that in these conditions, despite all the restrictions that we are exposed to, based on the internal efforts and positive energy that has been mobilised and being achieved in concrete results, the government of the People's Unity in such conditions is seeking and proposing concrete solutions, which will address certain issues in the domain of social policy which, due to the circumstances known, have produced the situation of the corresponding debts of the state. So, these laws create conditions that before the date of the commitment begin to be due to citizens who have old foreign currency savings, to create conditions to deal realistically with the question of payment of children's supplements that are more than 24 months late and which owes more than 4 billion. The limitation of the task that we had to come from in proposing these laws is that these laws, based on real resources, without new tax burdens, create conditions and implement these obligations without jeopardising macroeconomic stability policy, which means a policy of stable prices. A debt of four billion for children's allowances and a debt for a commitment based on old foreign exchange savings, as regards the Republic, is 3.6 billion. It is a great burden that the Republic has accepted to solve and solve before the deadline. In the Law on the Sale of certain immovableities in state property, in order to settle the obligations of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of foreign exchange savings of citizens and loans for economic development in the Republic of Serbia, it is essentially regulated that existing tenants of business space can buy the business space at the prices set out in this law, by paying it through old foreign exchange savings, not only their old foreign savings but the foreign savings of all citizens who are willing to pay their savings books or bonds that the Federation is due to issue to settle this obligation. Eighty percent of the sales price can be paid through old foreign savings, and 20% will be paid in foreign exchange performance. Of course, that will achieve two goals. The first goal is that citizens will either come into property on this basis, and on the basis of the markets that will be created in transport on the basis of old foreign exchange savings, certain citizens will also have direct foreign exchanges and dinars which will solve their material problems before their maturity. To remind you, the Old Foreign Savings Act predicts that these roles are being paid in 12 years. The first payments started and the first three years of payment of only 150 marks a year, which means that practically citizens under this law will come much earlier on to funds based on old foreign savings. Secondly, under this law, the Republic will continue its ownership transformation process without prejudice and without the anthems involved - nationalised, denationalised, such or such assets, because it must be clear that the property regime is established by law and we are obliged to respect them. No one will be damaged by this law, and the property found to be someone else's will be compensated if it's someone else's. For now, this is the property of this country and it is made available and the right of existing tenants to buy it. The third thing that is important, and related to this law, is that no worker will be threatened under this law. This right to buy a business space is exclusively for existing tenants. So companies that use a business space in a lease or entrepreneurs who use that business space are the only buyers of that business space. At this stage, no third party can appear in the purchase, so that some estimate that this process will endanger the right of the Republic's workers, that someone third party will come and drive them out into the street, do not stand. Like it wasn't even the previous law that expired. No worker will be threatened by this law. This law will only give existing tenants the right to be on their own and to regulate their tax-paying relationship in relation to the state, and manage the assets that would become their property under this law. We, in the context of economic policy in the coming period, must provide as a priority for development, and as we can see from this is intensively doing, the implementation of the 10,000 apartment building programme. Under the previous law adopted by the Assembly in the previous session, the Real Estates Act has provided certain funds, over a billion and 270,00,000 dinars, which will be provided as a real source for the financing of housing programmes. Of course, we need more and this law is about to provide additional resources for this programme to be truly closed. It is our projection that the Assets Directorate based on these revenues that will be achieved by the sale of this business space should provide two billion 700,000 dinars and participate with these funds, which is a developmental and stimulating momentum for raising the overall level of engagement. As part of the work of the Assembly committees, there were certain initiatives to ban the sale, limit or disable the sale of business space on the part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia and that of Vojvodina. Of course, we did not accept such an initiative and that we cannot accept it, because the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are equal, the rights are equal for all and such initiatives and this proposal and the amendment has been rejected. As for the second law, which is under consideration today, as regards the first emissions of long-term bonds of the Republic of Serbia, it is a law defining conditions for the Republic and government to finally create real material conditions for resolving the debt issue towards families that have not been paid child benefits. Why was there a delay, and why were we unable to resolve this issue properly earlier? The delay was due to limited public spending, when the economic power of the economy weakened, and especially during the period of NATO aggression, which caused the inability to settle these social charges properly. The priority of the use of funds was building a primary infrastructure to create conditions for increasing the social product, on the basis of which it is possible, on realistic grounds, to create the means to reconcile this unmistakable obligation. We have provided this law for the Republic to issue securities of values that will settle the total commitment of 4 billion dinars. If there were solutions, it would be best if 4 billion were paid immediately and that the Republic's obligations would be resolved as soon as possible. Since the real obligations of the Republic and the real income of the Republic do not allow, i.e. they have a limit on the real amount of funds, it is estimated to go to this law, which will transfer securities from value through emissions. Every beneficiary of this right for a paid child's allowance, on average by family who has that right, will be owed about 10,000 dinars, will receive bonds that are transferable, which will be able to immediately settle their current obligations or current obligations during this year, thereby charging part of what the state is obliged to pay him. Although the bonds are long-term, for a period of four years, and are due to be paid with interest in six-month annuities, they will be immediately possible for use, for paying certain purposes, which are laid down by law. All tax obligations a citizen has to the state, all obligations that peasants have to the state, will be paid to those bonds immediately. In the absence of their arrival, these bonds will be used to pay liabilities based on the purchase of an apartment, if they have such a loan, they will be able to pay for the stay of children in pre-school institutions, they will be able to buy textbooks based on both high school and that right set will be satisfied, so to say, the direct interests of users and these visions will be paid by what the state cannot pay directly for money at this time, because, in order to provide money, printing would have to be used, and this government is leading to a policy of a firm restriction on public consumption and emissions cannot be a source and a means to finance such needs. This law provides for another new right, which simultaneously creates conditions that there is also an interest in the economy for bonds, because this law, as you have seen, provides that companies that are liable to the state and have not paid them, have that debt of over three billion and eight hundred million dinars for taxes, for tax obligations from before NATO aggression, can, on the basis of these bonds, come into possession of these bonds, to settle obligations towards the state, and by paying one dinar the bonds of two dinars of taxes, income and unpaid tax obligations. So, with a 50% discount. It is a great economic interest for companies to give their goods and bonds to appear in transport and to be able to buy both goods, and food, and clothing, and footwear through bonds, because the list of debtors to the state is quite wide, which, at the same time, will be due to companies based on economic stimulation, which is incorporated into the law itself, to the state. The law also envisioned the company's obligations, in addition to this economic stimulation, that at least 20% of its debt that it has and which occurred in this period since 31 March 1999, at least 20% of its debt to the state is settled through these bonds that we issue. Therefore, this law creates real conditions to settle more than 1/3 of the total debt, which we have in relation to the delay in paying child benefits, in the course of the year. Of course, those households and those citizens who are interested in waiting for a cash payment by the state have the opportunity to wait for the arrival of the annuity and to charge the bond per maturity, with the corresponding interest, which is at the height of the escontaneous rate increased by 10%. Finally, I would only give a brief look at this third law, which is a short law, but it is crucial and important for the implementation of the obligation to operate the municipal system of the city of Belgrade, which is a question of amending and supplementing the Tax and Excise Act. This law ensures that because of the lack of agreement on the use of these funds, funds for Belgrade have not been transferred to a special account of the Republic in the past six months, that they are exclusively used for the purposes provided for by the programme, there is no denying to Belgrade the rights provided under this law, that they are purposely used on the basis of a programme to be established by the Government, which even provides for the opinion on the programme to be delivered by the city's competent authorities, which will ensure that the proper use of the funds solves vital problems, which is why the Serbian Parliament has adopted this law. First of all, it is meant to create conditions for the problem of public traffic in Belgrade to be resolved as a priority issue. In addition, the problem of debt on the basis of the energy delivered, which has put the country's total energy supply at risk, due to the large debts it has in relation to the energy it has spent, to focus on the economy, which is to produce goods, which will resolve the issue of these obligations, which the state has on the basis of the supplied and unpaid energy, to end certain capital investments, which ensure that the significant funds invested both in the construction of the Belgrade node and in the highway systems for the supply of Belgrade, which covers suburban municipalities, are effectively realised. Therefore, this law does not remove and reroute funds, this law only provides for, under the circumstances, effective use of funds to address the problems of the Belgrade city and the citizens of Belgrade. In that sense, I propose to the Assembly to support the adoption of these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-12-0.u2054	Thank you. He has the word of the chairman of the Finance Committee, MP Zlatan Perucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-12-0.u2055	Thank you, Mr. President. Allow me, under the authority of the chairman of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary club, to also state the position of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary club. Along with all this, I'll try not to repeat myself in the work the finance minister was talking about. State leadership, economy and citizens of Serbia and the whole of Yugoslavia have been in a large and ambitious economic offensive for a full year. Material, financial and human resources and efforts to destroy NATO's pact on our country's aggression as soon as possible, making it more important that the entire project is implemented without any significant external capital, in conditions where we are almost completely cut off from world financial and commodity markets. At the same time, the country's reconstruction takes place in conditions of continued and severe international pressure, political, diplomatic and media, on our people, the state and its leadership, as well as attempts by individual parties, dictated outside, to create high political and social tensions in the country itself. Such an international and internal political and economic environment causes us to pay a large price for the implementation of the country's reconstruction programme, perhaps significantly higher than it has paid by any war-torn country, which has been restored with foreign aid. Therefore, the realisation of the reconstruction programme is financed exclusively from real internal sources, implies, of course, new high pressures on both budgets, and especially on all their users. However, an integral part of the country's rebuilding policy is population care, and above all its poorest parts. At least one part of that personal sacrifice, submitted by Serbian citizens defending the country and restoring it, the government is making up for these laws to help with as few accidents as possible survive difficult times. The country's commitment especially exists in relation to those citizens whose state, not only morally but also financially, is owed on the basis of loans for economic development in the Republic of Serbia, either on the basis of old foreign exchange savings, or on the basis of achievements in social contributions. The package of laws that we are to adopt today comes from the same economic and social assumptions that the Government of People's Unity has already set out to implement economic policy in earlier years, especially for 1999 and 2000. What is common to all listed legal projects is a clear political and moral imperative to share the burden of rebuilding the country with a fairer, proportionate to the real economic strength and opportunities of individual social layers, cities, businesses and each individual. In doing so, the government of the Republic of Serbia pays particular attention to social policies and programmes to protect the most vulnerable layers of the population. Recognizing, therefore, these laws and legislative projects, which are before us today, and the foundations of programming policy and orientation, you know, the Socialist Party of Serbia, the Social Justice Party policy, the SPS parliamentary group in general supports the proposal of the Government of the National Unity for the adoption of laws of economic and social content, which are now on the agenda of the National Assembly. Successful implementation of the targets set in the reconstruction and construction of the country in the long term is not possible without the creation of such an economic and social environment in which the material position of the most vulnerable parts of the Republic population will be adequately protected. This is not just about moral and political imperatives, but also about the need to ensure optimal management of material and human resources, which will be activated and put into operation. The Socialist Party of Serbia does not look at these legal proposals in light of cheap social demagogy, with the goal of providing additional support in the election year, as was otherwise interpreted by the domestic political public. On the contrary, we are firmly defined to strengthen all proposed measures further the institutions of the market economy in the Republic, as well as the overall environment for economic and social reforms. The definition that a key part of the public debt of the Republic is being serviced by the emission of long-term bonds means further fostering the country's financial markets, but also a way to protect the real value of these bonds, thus also the rights of users. The option that the value paper is on the bearer, which will allow their legal turnover, will allow those after the law of defined purposes to be imposed as a desirable means of payment in a significantly wide circle of users. The position of the Socialist Party of Serbia is that, above all, all or most of the necessary conditions for the adoption of such a package of regulations have now been acquired in a macroeconomic way. First, we successfully removed the most severe destruction from the period of NATO's aggression pact and revitalised the most significant infrastructure facilities. Secondly, for the first time in a long time, we have established the necessary currency and price stability, while strengthening the country's foreign reserves. And thirdly, the government of the Republic of Serbia's policy, aimed at maintaining stable prices of basic energy and agricultural products, is being successfully implemented. Therefore, with these macroeconomic assumptions, they have finally obtained the conditions that the Republic is part of the assets in its ownership, and part of the budgets bear the burden of reconciliation of public debt. The SPS parliamentary group does not see the essence and meaning of the proposed solutions as administrative management of the economy. On the contrary, we believe that, first of all, the state is paying back at least one part of it, its existing debt to citizens, regardless of whether it is the users of social giving, the old foreign savings or the signatories of the loan for economic rebirth. Therefore, it is the obligation of the state to repay the existing debt, i.e. to enable it to be returned in a legally regulated manner, and how it will continue to manage assets, i.e. securities of value, which will enter legal traffic, the top of our opinion is no longer a matter of government, but rather a market for which, in the whole of our commitment and programme, we are in favour. And finally, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, allow me to comment on only the additional Excise and Transport Tax Act, relating to 3% for Belgrade, for the reasons you know. This assembly, these MPs, due to the difficulties of our country's capital, despite the fact that all local self-government in the Republic has exceptional problems and difficulties, only Belgrade has been defined by an additional 3% of the services tax in Belgrade. That's a lot of money. For those funds, the assembly wanted to give responsibility to local self-government in Belgrade. I can tell you, and I hope that I will succeed materially, in fact, to prove that what happened in the public transport of Belgrade, when two million Belgraders suffered, what happened in over 100 years of old, in which citizens, in Serbia's economy, invested all over 100 years, is the greatest destruction of state and social property, the greatest theft and the greatest destruction that I have ever seen. Public urban traffic did not exist on June 1st this year. Public city transport has been turned into a completely ruined company. I believe and I am convinced that the government of the Republic of Serbia's decision to introduce temporary measures to this company, but at the same time by proposing that 3% continue to be directed towards Belgrade, but not towards irresponsible local self-government, but by a policy of directing funds towards Belgrade for the same purposes, for which this assembly has already decided, by the government of the Republic of Serbia to decide on this, of course repeating and asking for the opinion of those who no longer need to be asked about it. I must tell you honestly, our task is difficult. And because it takes a short time for Belgrade's blood flow, public city transport, to bring back to the people of Belgrade. We will succeed, but we have a parallel obligation to prove and prove that this is one of the most dangerous and the greatest thefts that has happened in Belgrade's history in our capital's municipal systems. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, with an apology for speaking a little longer. I repeat, the SPS parliamentary group fully supports the draft laws for the reasons I have said.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-12-0.u2056	Thank you. He has the word Stevo Dragisic, head of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary club.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-12-0.u2057	Ladies and gentlemen, all the draft laws, submitted by the Government of the National Unity of the Republic of Serbia to the National Assembly, are always the product of the consent of coalition partners. Almost never, but that's happening, there's no question of who's the initiator of passing certain laws. But so far, in the practice of the current Government of National Unity, certain laws have been linked to one of the coalition partners. This was the case with the Information Law, the University Act, and recently, the Law against Terrorism JUL highlighted as its own proposal, as an initiative by the party to pass the law. I must point out, not without modesty, that the Serbian Radical Party is the initiator of the adoption of a law on the sale of certain immovableities in state property in order to settle obligations on the basis of the so-called old foreign exchange savings and loans for the economic development of the Republic of Serbia, then the proposal for a law on the first emissions of long-term bonds of the Republic of Serbia and the proposal for a law on public undertakings and the exercise of a general interest. These laws address issues that have been on the burden of the state for a long time, regardless of what the government is doing as an executive body in the state, in particular the law that provides for the settlement of obligations based on old foreign exchange savings or on loans for the economic development of the Republic of Serbia. Ten years ago, the state -- it must be said -- gained a huge financial debt to its citizens on the basis of old foreign exchange savings and loans for the economic development of the Republic of Serbia. The result of this failure is that our country may be the only country in the world that has no savings for citizens in banks, and saving citizens is one of the basic sources of credit potential for banks. When banks don't have credit potential, then economic development is at a very low level or not at all. Citizens' mistrust is certainly caused by the state's guilt, but it is also significantly "heated" by the belief that the state will not be able to repay the debt created ten years ago. The reconciliation of this debt is necessary not only to deprive the state, but also to restore citizens' trust and restore their credibility. By passing a law on the reconciliation of obligations on the basis of so-called The old foreign savings will take steps towards restoring the credibility of the state to its own citizens. The law established a commitment of 3.6 billion German marks in the Republic of Serbia, which is due to be returned from 2000 to 2011. Since July 1st, the state has begun to repay the debt envisioned for 2000. However, this law goes one step further. The law proposed today by the government of the Republic of Serbia provides for an additional source of funds to repay part of the debt the state has towards foreign savings, while at the same time not introducing new fiscal commitments. So the state decided to place one resource at its disposal, which is a business space, in the function of repaying the debt it has to its citizens. This business space now provides one source of income to those whose business space is entrusted with use, or at their disposal. It's mostly local self-government units. However, since the business space is owned by the Republic of Serbia, and the Republic of Serbia has obligations towards its citizens, it is the smartest thing for the Republic of Serbia to put that business space on the market, a resource at its disposal and by selling part of the business space to solve the problem, part of the problem in terms of foreign savings obligations, i.e. creditors based on loans for the economic development of the Republic of Serbia. This does not establish new fiscal obligations, no new taxes and new taxes are introduced, in order to raise funds for the recovery of the debt from a real source, do not print - don't, God - money, and in a completely painless way, the smartest way, in our opinion, the state is slowly beginning to reduce debt to its citizens. The law has a lot of similarities with the law recently passed, with the Law on specific conditions of transport of certain immovableities in the property of the Republic of Serbia. The subject of this law is all that was subject to the previous law. Therefore, a business space not used by state authorities or bodies of local self-government units, but rather a commercial space to be leased. The right to buy out a business space based on old foreign exchange savings has all the tenants or, better said, have the option of buying out, which means that those who do not want to buy out a business space or have no claim on the basis of old foreign savings or on the basis of the role of a loan for the economic development of Serbia, or cannot afford to buy out from another foreign exchange investor on the basis of old foreign savings, do not have to buy out their own business space. So the law does not foresee the obligation to buy out a business space, but rather the possibility. However, what we assume will be an additional stimulant for business space users, in fact the tenants, is the possibility that even though they do not have old foreign savings bonds, therefore they are not the creditors of the state, they have the opportunity to buy foreign bonds from foreign foreign savings that do not have a business space and, therefore, these bonds that would read on the bearer buying out their business space. This will represent, we are sure, a stimulant for all users of the business space, which may, under more favourable conditions, come up with these foreign savings bonds and solve the problem of their own business space, a problem that they have failed to solve under the previous Law on special conditions of purchasing a business space. This law opens up wide possibilities. The possibility is opened to every business space user who is capable and has the opportunity to buy out his business space in the simplest and cheapest way. At first, I said that citizens have long lost confidence that the foreign currency savings they have invested in our banks will come into play. Because they have lost confidence, they are willing to sell their bonds to someone else who will thus manage to make his claim through the purchase of business space. Multiplely motivated are all users of business space and foreign currency savings that finally, their savings roles are realised in one way or another. The state predicted that, under this law, it would collect some fresh money. It is predicted that 20% of the established business space price is paid in cash to a special account of the Republic of Serbia. It will be an additional source of revenue that the Republic of Serbia, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, will spend in the way it considers most appropriate, and invest in some projects that are most important for the country at this point. The deadline for submission is somewhat longer than the previous law. He's six months old. It is submitted to the same body as under the previous law - the Property Directorate of the Republic of Serbia, and 30 days since the conclusion of the buy-in contract is the deadline for the settlement of the obligations arising from the signing of the contract. What needs to be pointed out specifically, that was the word, no one will be harmed by this law. They will not be damaged or foreign exchange savings, for they will be able to collect their foreign exchange claims, perhaps even in full within six months, or seven months. Nor will the users of the business space be damaged, because, as I have already said, they are only given the possibility of buying out a business space and not establishing a commitment. On the other hand, the Republic of Serbia, as a debtor, is reducing its obligations in a different way, by some new source of income, and by buying this business space it will raise some funds in those 20% of the established cost of costing the business space. There's no place for speculation. I thought I was talking about all three laws at once, so I'm not gonna take my word for it later, when it's the second and third laws. So there's no place for speculation when it comes to this law. No one will be expelled from business space, no one will be left without a job, but only a new way of regulating the obligation is being introduced and provides the possibility to collect their debt and to regulate the problem that many business space users have, because they never know when their public business, which runs through the local self-government unit, may cancel the use of business space and, with a high commission, conclude a contract with some other business space user, which is often the case in the city of Belgrade. Speaking of the city of Belgrade, the city of Belgrade and the machinations of the city of Belgrade, the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Excises and Tax on Transport has been attached. The law stipulates that the government of the Republic of Serbia is delivering a programme of spending funds collected from a special 3% fee on Belgrade's territory. The tax has been collected in Belgrade for several years. The purpose of these funds is purely municipal. Therefore, they can only be spent on municipal construction of the city of Belgrade, according to a special programme to be adopted by the Belgrade City Assembly Executive Board, and that consent to the programme is given by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. However, last year, and especially this year, there were problems in the adoption of the programme. Practically, this year there is no programme for spending these 3% tax money. The executive board of the City's Assembly refuses to act on suggestions from the government of the Republic of Serbia, but is already trying to spend 3% of the amount of money on acquired habits, old habits, corruption and criminal charges he imagined. It is a public secret that money from the tax, through various utility companies, ended up in private pockets or in building some facilities that serve as party symbols of the ruling party in the city of Belgrade. As a member of the Serbian Radical Party, I must express great satisfaction that the government of the Republic of Serbia has finally decided to put an end to the Serbian Renewal Movement's robbery efforts in the city of Belgrade. At the same time, I must also express my regret that this has not happened much earlier. As a council member of the City Hall, I was able to get acquainted with the many failures of the city’s executive bodies, many machinations. Many of these affairs, as a council member of the City Assembly, I also started in the City Assembly and in public appearances, many of the Serbian Radical Party's committees were also familiar with it. Some of these affairs prevented the abuse of office as officials of the City Assembly, such as the famous affair with the purchase of Czech trolleybuses, when even the criminal police department launched an investigation against officials of the City Assembly. We, as a committee group, have even applied for the introduction of a forced administration in the city of Belgrade. Unfortunately, this has not happened, but there has been a partial evaluation of our request. The government of the Republic of Serbia has introduced temporary measures into the City Transport Company. We hope that they will react so vigorously in each of the following cases of abuse in the municipal enterprises of the City Assembly. We also see about the abuse of funds available to the city of Belgrade, but now, what is it, there it is. We are aware that we have a corrupt and criminal government at the city level. We didn't take advantage of the opportunity to introduce an emergency administration when it was due on time to warn many machinations. The only thing left for us now is to act as a post-festum and to warn what can be warned today, to warn, and here I understand the adoption of this law as one of those measures, which wants to warn the further destruction of the municipal system of the City Assembly. Certainly, it should be stressed that the purpose of these funds remains the same as it was. They remain a 3% fee, used for municipal equipment in the city of Belgrade. It will continue to be used for that purpose, but this is now, about, like, a situation where you have someone you've entrusted with some kind of work, it has proved to be incompetent for this job and not to do more damage than it has already done, you're giving him an guardian. Practically, the now immature city government of the Republic of Serbia introduces a custodian, making its own decisions that were in charge and under the responsibility of the city's Executive Board. Unfortunately, only after four years has it come to the conclusion that our city government was completely incompetent, completely out of line with the obligations it was supposed to carry out and the government of the Republic of Serbia was forced to carry out part of its own affairs within the jurisdiction of the local self-government unit, which has the sole responsibility to deal with municipal activities in its territory. Unfortunately, they have failed to perform their only jurisdiction properly. I believe that the adoption of this law will finally introduce order, even in that part of the spending of money available to the City Assembly, that a quality programme, which will finally be put in place, that most necessary municipal systems will recover, receive some financial assistance and for some of the next few months, in how much better they perform their function. The public utility "Belgrade Water and sewerage", which has been systematically destroyed for the past few years, and the only goal of this destruction, was to make it more valuable, in order for the French partner to have as little money as possible to pay for the purchase of the utility. Fortunately, no proposals have been approved for the purchase of the public utility "Belgrade water and sewerage". It remains owned by the city of Belgrade. Huge funds are needed to invest in a water supply system in Belgrade, to bring it to, as satisfactory a level as possible, so that during the summer period, half of Belgrade does not have drinking water. The city, which has two million inhabitants, cannot provide water for all its citizens. It's a mess. The main problem is that whenever supplies of materials or parts or equipment to be used were always taking those equipment for which the contractors could provide high fees through import companies. We believe that this public enterprise is one of the communal companies that is of vital interest both to the city and to the citizens and to the industry in Belgrade, and therefore the attention of the Government of the Republic of Serbia should now be specifically directed towards the municipal enterprise. As for the law on the first emissions of long-term bonds of the Republic of Serbia, it is one of those laws that I said was passed on to the Serbian Radical Party's initiative. The essence of the law is similar to the law on the sale of immovable property in order to settle obligations under old foreign currency savings. So there is a debt of the state to the users of the mother and child allowance. It's about 4,200,000. This debt has to be paid and it is about 24 months’ payouts for the users of these social supplements. It's been two years too late. Now the most favourable way to eliminate this delay is to move towards a regular payment of those obligations. We had something similar when the government of the Republic of Serbia resolved how they would pay back their pensions. So, the state is now issuing bonds that will be able to settle obligations based on property tax, income tax on agriculture, total income tax on citizens, obligations to buy apartments in the property of the Republic of Serbia, obligations to house children in pre-school institutions, purchase of textbooks under the basic and secondary education programme and the cost of treating children in the country's health rehabilitation institutions and their companion. These are the obligations that cover to the greatest extent that the spectrum of obligations that users of child and maternal allowances have. The minister said the average debt to users is about 10,000 dinars. With that amount, a good part of the obligations that users have towards the state or the need for some other elements of obligations that they will be able to cover over these bonds, the problem is solved. And the bearer of obligations, i.e. legal persons or undertakings that have obligations to the state, which amount to about 4.5 billion dinars, so they are approximately at the same level as those of children's and maternal allowances, will be able to settle their obligations in relation to 1 : 2. Even with those bonds that didn't come for payment. In this way, debtors are also motivated by the budget of the Republic of Serbia or by some funds to regulate their obligations to the state by coupons, i.e. bonds received from children's and maternal allowances. There won't be any damage here either. This way, the state is painlessly solving the problem that is certainly on its back, which must thus calm down, and those who receive bonds will be able to reduce their obligations by 50%. This is the contribution of the government of the Republic of Serbia, the method and method of reconciliation of these commitments will certainly not affect the additional emissions of money, will not affect the increase of inflation in the country, a problem that has been in place for two years. Many will succeed in their private obligations to settle, the government of the Republic of Serbia will be able to establish the dynamics of paying off its obligations month after month. These two laws are therefore laws which make the state serious to resolve its obligations to citizens, without affecting the primary emissions of money, without affecting the total amount of money in circulation and from real sources of income, it manages to provide funds that will regulate its obligations to citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-12-0.u2058	Thank you. There is a word from MP Dr. Zivorad Djordjevic, deputy head of JUL's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-12-0.u2059	Dear People's MPs, the Yugoslav Left MPs' club supports the proposed law package that creates a legal basis for providing material resources for the citizens' existential needs, but also for the country's economic and social development. Simply put, we are building a land of aggression that is torn apart. The policy of fierce land-building is the best gift for any normal man, for his happy life, to live peacefully and to rejoice tomorrow. The Yugoslav left always supports all efforts that mean greater material security, more joy, and all this is the foundation of humanity, on whose side is always the left. After all, to remind life in peace, an equal and coherent life of people and peoples, a life without hatred, without fear and acuity, were the foundations of the policy of the Yugoslav Left and at the time of its creation, and these are the values of the Yugoslav Left today. It should be recalled that the Yugoslav Left was the first to create a comprehensive programme of reconstruction and reform of society in the peace of NATO aggression itself. We have offered good and imaginative solutions to all relevant institutions of society and the public. We look forward to identifying many ideas and solutions from our program in the proposed legal proposals. We are pleased that the programme of the Yugoslav Left has an enviable level of passivity in our social reality and that at the moment we have obtained the conditions for our long-term political definitions to be translated into these legal solutions. We look forward, of course, to what is also the high degree of political consent achieved on our ideas and solutions, and what these legal solutions are based on many of our initiatives. I believe any party would look forward to this with its own contribution to building a society. We feel all the joy of political engagement that we encourage to work for the sake of creation and affirm life from our own work, not life from foreign charity for vassal devotion. That is why the Yugoslav Left supports the Serbian government's legislative proposals, pushing for a legal basis for children to have conditions for normal development and learning, to have beautiful houses and apartments, not to trample, not to be afraid of thieves and robbers, and to remain in the jurisdiction of NATO's obliged party to teach in the streets and riots, whistles, wheezing and other important activities. We thus create conditions for our generations to live and develop in the spirit of work, of happy lives, without fear of tomorrow. We create conditions for a normal and happy generation. Such a generation cannot be threatened by groups of spiritual unfortunates, who direct NATO's pledge parties with the watchful supervision of Western mentors. With the proposed legal solutions, this authority proves its readiness to fulfil its obligations to its citizens under the most difficult conditions. That's normal, because this nation is the boss of this government. We have no obligation to the NATO alliance, but we have to our people. On the other hand, NATO officials have obligations to their NATO heads. This is the main difference between the parties in power and those that used to be the opposition. Our government deserves support, because without foreign funds, with its own real-estate funds, it has restored the destroyed land in less time than the aggressor should have destroyed it with thousands of planes. On behalf of the Yugoslav Left parliamentary group, I propose to the Assembly that it adopt all proposed legislative solutions, as at this time they have gained basic and economic and other conditions for their launch and adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-12-0.u2060	Thank you. He has the word Dragan Vesenov, head of the Vojvodin - Sandzak parliamentary club.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-12-0.u2061	People's MPs, in a country where debtors have long defeated creditors, in that country, legal uncertainty must be extremely high. Where the state itself is in debt, which has not fulfilled its obligations for years, it burns both the foundations, and the walls and houses. There is no doubt that the state must punish itself unless it fulfils the obligations it has made before the people. The state should sell its assets if there is nothing else and there are no other sources to pay back the money it has taken over from the people, and in this case on the basis of loans for economic development from 1989, and of course it is obliged to repay foreign savings, an old foreign savings. It's sad that our country doesn't have the strength to explain why it invited the people in 1989, in that patriotic barbecue, which was at the time, and almost a billion dollars was asked in Serbia by the people, and to this day no explanation of where that money went, how that money was spent, and in whose pockets it ended. Why is there no old foreign savings? In this country, the main companies in social and state property are inequitable compared to banks. Banks are inequitable from the population. The bankruptcy and liquidation procedures are not being opened for major state-owned enterprises, which are under special political attention. This means that the legal mess and mistrust in the stability of the relationship between creditors and debtors is extremely large. Not everyone in this congregation is equally responsible. For this, first of all, the successors of the 1989 Union of Communists have been responsible, who have taken over his political commitments to which they are constantly called. And they're obliged to explain where they went on billions of marks and why that money can't be returned today. We cannot vote for this law not because we are not for the state to sell out of what it has - but it is the worst, when the state of its real estate sale, that means that there are no more current incomes and when it has to be used by this last means to repay its debts to the people - we are already convinced that there is no injustice, and this is missing foreign savings and no money on the basis of loans for economic rebirth from 1989, this money cannot, in our opinion, be returned to any sale of property that was nationalised and confiscated after 1945. This law does not make it clear, although I would be happy to support it, if it were clear, whether this law will sell and property that has been nationalized and confiscated since 1945. It's not just the property of large-scale owners. And many of the tiny ones have been killed since then. We can't vote for a law to sell property that was once taken away to pay back the debt of the people and to keep those who are responsible and who put his money in their pocket. A new bourgeoisie since 1990 will be preserved by the sale of the bourgeoisia property from 1945. It can't. We believe that the property that has been taken away since 1945 must be returned to everyone. And those responsible, for which the law is passed today, but who are responsible for not returning the money from the old foreign savings, from the loan for development, have been preserved. I'm not saying this government is responsible for that. This government is not responsible, because this government did not exist in 1980, it did not exist in 1990 and 1991, but in this government are the people of the party who are responsible for it and who wants to double-cross the people and sell out the property of the people since 1945, which is then affected, because of their debts, which the party has made with its wrong policies. What kind of patriotic development fund? Where's that? It's nowhere to be found. Which makes it possible to steal the foreign savings without explaining to the people where the money went. This government is required, since some are constantly calling for patriotism and morality, it is required to go before the people and explain where it is! Although this one doesn't have to, and I'm saying that this government in this individual system doesn't have to bear the responsibility for the obligations it's taking today, but the people in it are from the party that created these debts. And it can't be protected by citizens' assets since 1945. The obligations this party has created and the people from it must take them over and settle these debts. That's the meaning of our intervention today. Ambassador Risticevic will probably talk about how we demand that Vojvodina does not participate, and its property, in reconciliation with the obligations of citizens, but is the essence of our resistance to this law in that we do not want an old injustice to be restored to try to correct the new injustice through the old one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-12-0.u2062	Thank you. He has the word of Deputy Prime Minister Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-12-0.u2063	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it was not our intention to debate today and determine who was to blame for the great debt of the state, because if we were to question it then we would have knocked on the door of Dragan Vesenov, his father, his family, who made these debts by systematically ruining our country. The debts were made to us, huge debts, and political allies of Dragan Veselinov, and above all Ante Markovic. When Ante Markovic was president of the federal government's foreign reserve, the SFRJ amounted to more than $10 billion. Ten billion dollars. The main background of these foreign reserves was old foreign savings. Based on such a foreign exchange base, Ante Markovic opened a free sale of foreign exchanges, so the money from the primary show of the National Bank of Yugoslavia was sent primarily to Slovenia and Croatia. Slovenia and Croatia bought foreign exchanges in banks from primary emissions to these dinars. Ante Markovic sold old foreign exchange savings to Slovenia and Croatia. There were also shops in Serbia and other republics, but mostly systematically in Slovenia and Croatia. That's how huge debts were created. We have to pay those debts back, and then we'll go through the succession to see who took how much, and then go to certain beatings. The debts of Serbian banks are the obligations of Serbia as the Republic, as federal units and they must return. The guarantee was given by the federal government, and the federal state is not running away from that guarantee. We're here to discuss how to pay the citizens back, and ten or twenty, so maybe fifty years, we'll determine who robbed Serbia and who took it. Those who carried factories from Serbia with Father Dragan Veselinov after World War II to Slovenia. TAM in Maribor was transferred from Rakovica. That's the kind of policy that's been going on. And we're in a position to correct the most tragic mistakes of this policy, and we're doing it, and by my deep conviction, these laws are what we do in the smartest way. We make it clear to the citizens that no debt of the state towards them will die, will fail, and that we will repay our debts from real sources without printing money. How else did the debts come to be? As a federal unit seceded, it tried to make the money it owed from the National Bank of Yugoslavia as soon as it materialized in any way, so the money was poured over into Serbia, so Serbia had to respond to the primary show, because it is the only way you can stop the incursion of dinars from Slovenia, Croatia, BiH, on our market. That's when the inflation started. What she was not controlled and she received some other situation is a second and political question, but the process was initiated with two factors. The first factor - the titoistic, communist regime, which was extremely anti-Sprish, which mutilated Serbia both in political and economic and social terms, and the second factor is - the government of Ante Markovic, which was a strategic preparation for Yugoslavia's disintegration. That's how the debts came to be. As we return them, we return them in a way that no serious man can make any excess remarks. First, we arrange the sale of state property to return old foreign currency savings, in one smart and appropriate way. Secondly, we're not jeopardizing someone who uses that property as a tenant, but we're giving him the right to buy that property under favourable conditions. We had early this year even more favourable ransom terms, for cash, for dinars. He used about 1,250,000 dinars to sell business space. This was the most favourable, at the cheapest price, of approximately 3,000 marks for a square meter of exclusive zone in Belgrade, which is sold at some 6,000 or 7,000 marks on the free market. That was almost half the price. Whoever took advantage of that right took advantage of who had the money. We urgently needed money to rebuild Serbia, to rebuild the infrastructure, to rebuild the factory, and we found that money that way. This is phase two, the price is still very favourable, but not as favourable as it was at the beginning of the year when we were in a hurry. We were in a hurry, the law was in effect for a month, and we got as much money as we planned. We may have planned a little bit more than that, but it doesn't matter. That money's welcome. And this price of 4,000 marks for a square of business space in Belgrade's exclusive zone, that's Terrazie, Prince of Michael's Street, that's a cheap price. Whoever wants to buy it has a six-month chance and 20% has to pay in cash, in foreign exchanges, and 80% of the old foreign currency savings can pay. What's the point - and whoever doesn't own a business space, who isn't a user, and who has bonds of old foreign currency savings, will be able to sell those bonds freely to whoever is the user of the business space. Maybe at some discount, 2-3%, 5%, that's already a big profit. Maybe somewhere, if someone's in a hurry, 10% to 20%, we're not getting into it, but we're opening up the possibility, and we're planning on doing that in a way that's gonna bring back the old foreign savings problem. That's not all. The old foreign savings will be able to be used in the privatisation of companies, they'll be able to do some more things, we'll see which. It's in the process of alignment, thinking, etc. This time, there is what is most tempting, what is most attractive, and that is the state's business space. Whose business space it is -- it's the business space of the state, no matter how the state becomes the owner. I agree that nationalization in 1945 was largely unfair, except where war criminals were exploited, it was no longer nationalisation, but the seizure of property, if someone was a war speculator, or a war criminal, etc. There were war criminals whose property was taken away. Many people were wrongly taken away, but not only their property was taken away, some were shot. That's one historic injustice. She can't be corrected when it's been over 50 years, 55 years. In our legal order, the 20-year deadline is absolute obsolescence. And when you kill a man, for 20 years you're not caught by the police, after 20 years he can't even chase you anymore. Now that a body is found somewhere over 20 years old, the police are not in charge of an investigation. It's that deadline of absolute obsolescence. When you steal something and he knows you stole something from him, but he can't find that object, point a finger at it, and it goes 20 years, after 20 years, he can't force you back. It's the meaning of the term of absolute obsolescence. For if we now returned to those to whom the property was taken in 1945, we would also have to return to those to whom King Alexander took away the property. You don't know, even though you're professors of the university, you're a great ignorant, you don't know that King Alexander Karadjordjevic took much more from church, monastery countries than from communists. Some educated church people know that. So you should get that back. So where to stop in the past -- we'd get the country back to the Turkish escapes, and they were kidnapped once. Our ancestors felt that they were justly kidnapped, but these fugitives and their descendants felt that they were wrongly kidnapped. It's a matter of morality, but some long-term, historical morale in some historical retrospective. There must be a limit here where injustice will be corrected. That line in our legal order is 20 years, in some legal denials is shorter, in some segments, but not to get into it. We have 20 years, over 100 years, as far as I know, and we don't need to change that. How we're going to solve the problem of back-to-back child supplements -- this problem is very big for the state -- it's 4,260,000,000 dinars in numbers. The state doesn't have that money. What the state can now through the government of Serbia in the National Assembly promise is that it will not remake those debts and that is a great obligation and a finance minister, who has indeed drawn a great deal into the process of making these laws and harmonisations. But old debts can't go back in cash unless we print money. If we were to print 4.260,000,000 dinars now, Serbia would sink into hyperinflation as in 1993, surely. There are no other sources of income for this, and there is a commitment. This obligation can be resolved this way - by beating each other's claims again. The state printing bonds, bonds are also remunerated at six months' intervals. However, they can be realised earlier by making sure that those bonds, if they have entered into the long-term purchase process, will pay for the remaining wars, which will pay the kindergarten for their children, which will buy school textbooks, which will pay the tax. There are a whole range of other opportunities to take advantage of these bonds, and the most important possibility that they can buy goods from companies that owe the state, based on fiscal burdens and on loans from the Serbian Development Fund. There's a huge number of these companies, there's 596 of them. Among them PIK "Tavo", "Gosa" - Smederevska Palanka, "Record" - Belgrade, "Serbia" - BK, PTT, "Pekabeta" - Novi Belgrade, "Kluz", "Politika", BIM "Slavija", Vršačka brewar, Belgrade Confection, "Godomin" - Smederevo, "First May" - Pirote, Niška mlekara, Jagodinska brewar - this is just the case for, at random, some of the companies that have goods that they can offer for these bonds. We don't force all the companies to sell all the goods immediately, because then they'd be left without that basic financial substance, which interferes with normal business, but we commit them by the end of this year 20% of their obligations to regulate. Why is this law good for companies - debtors too? It's not our goal to destroy these companies. It's to help them get rid of their obligations. We gave them a 50% discount in the settlement of commitments, if those obligations are met by these bonds, which we give to the holders of children's allowances, maternity allowance, etc. If the PIC "Such" now sells chocolates and other its products for these bonds, it will pay 50% less with those bonds to the state than it would pay with cash and has the obligation to sell it. So, one of the smartest variants of beating up each other's claims of state and economy, through which we solve a huge problem of paying off children's supplements. What could have been better done in this situation? In a similar way, we solved the issue of back-up pensions. We've paid three back-up pensions through an electric bill. The vast majority of pensioners were satisfied. He wasn't happy with the one who had a much bigger pension than he was wasting electricity, but, you know, we're not exactly the primary ones who have the biggest pensions, but the ones that have the least or the average. There's still a solution, we'll see in what way, we've already taken one measure of government, and that's through the payment of certain fees for beer, to pay for the backlog of farm pensions. It probably won't be enough, we'll find a variant that we'll settle down, at the latest by the end of this year, and maybe much earlier, maybe by September. If we do all of this the way we imagined, this government really has reason to boast in front of the people for its results. Of course, there are now the dangers of different, malicious interpretations of our laws, as was the last time, so some of Belgrade's city authorities threatened to rent business space that they would not be recognised if they bought it in this way, that they would have to return it to former owners etc. It's all nonsense. Fortunately, there is now no normal man who can expect the pro-American, traitorous opposition to win the election, so all their threats are empty. The guarantees of the state exist, the one who buys property from the state, he's certain of his property. No danger threatens him from these new nationalists, including Dragan Vesenov. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-12-0.u2064	There is a word from MP Dragan Veselinov, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-12-0.u2065	Seselj, you're in a bad mood, you're nagging me a lot. I expected a much better answer. However, I can see that you're giving the most of your speech to my father, and I haven't noticed by now that you've found him a debt to the state. But I've revealed your debts to you. You didn't pay your residence tax in Vojvodina, and you got citizenship. How is that possible? And it's known that someone who doesn't pay taxes on citizens' property can't register a car. And you don't have to pay your residence tax, and you get citizenship and you still think you can be president of Serbia. I see you don't understand what you've done. Well, your socialists used you. Well, you take care of these laws how their debts will be paid to the people, they've planted you. I blame you, though, for wanting to sell the nationalized property since 1945 and not bring it back to the citizens, even though you promised it with your own program. You said that in 1990. You said that later, and now you're giving it up. You're referring to obsolescence. What old age in historical laws? It doesn't exist. And what obsolescence in this congregation? You think, 20 years when it's over, we stop this assembly in anything. Do you remember how much this assembly passed retroactive laws? The principle of government work is retroactive laws and legal instability. And you are now giving up the correction of a great injustice and protecting them. Well, you think you'll stick to them. Well, they've already changed the Constitution of Yugoslavia to free you, among other things. The election this year, so it's because of you, they want to kick you out of the coalition. Well, they don't need you anymore, you're starting to get in the way. And you think by investing like this, through these charlatan laws, which are propaganda nature, you'll be saved. Well, you won't. They'll drop you off. And what you're talking about -- the NATO opposition, that's what you're talking about. You're not an opposition to anyone for a long time, at least I am, I'm trying and I'm holding on to myself.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-12-0.u2066	He has the word Vice President Vojislav Seselj, the reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-12-0.u2067	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, only a notorious idiot can want to be a majority opposition. When we formed the Serbian Radical Party, we formed it in order to win power as soon as possible. That was the point of forming a political party. Of course, we did it, we're not exactly what we wanted, we wanted to win power ourselves, but in the elections, the people ruled that no one could rule alone and the coalition was formed. What you're telling us is that constitutional amendments are designed for our eviction, it sounds very nice, but unfortunately, it's not convincing enough. Because we and when we wanted to leave the Serbian government, the President of the Republic brought an order with the legal force to keep us. After all, that the Serbian Radical Party is a qualified, capable and desirable partner in the Serbian government and the federal government, you can see for yourself in any place, not only among our coalition partners, but also with Serbian citizens. What our entry into power has brought to Serbia is, above all, political stability. And the people know, while we are here, there is no passage for you, for you servants of the Americans, for the servants of the NATO Pact. Where Serbian radicals are, the NATO Pact can't possibly pass. As far as debt is concerned, it's government debt. The debts didn't come now or five years ago, not even eight years ago. Debts were made nine or ten years ago. Debts were incurred when Ante Markovic sold out the state's foreign reserves. And in that Antu Markovic, and you swore in 1990, I know reliably. You were in the coalition, you held the rally together. Whether he's directly with you, I don't know, but I know that his and your party, you've always been to a traitor's camp. What bothers you in these laws? It bothers you that they're well thought out. That's why you don't have any objections, and that's why you're bringing the debate back to history, back to the past. Historical things stand as I told you, not otherwise, and they can't be corrected. The problem is in history what it says about the events that happened. We can love them, we can not love them, these events may be in our interest or against our interest, but later they cannot be corrected without new major historical interventions. That's the problem. If there is a return to what the communists took away in 1945, what King Alexander had to do in 1919, 1920, and 1921 when he was doing it, where he was also conducting agrarian reform. But according to that principle, and what was taken from the escape at the time of the Serb uprisings. That's ridiculous. Here we should go to what the legal order allows. The legal order prescribes, not only our current now, but it is with us a tradition, that absolute obsolescence is limited to 20 years. It's pointless to go on in the past 20 years. All that happened 20 years ago is history, it's a matter of historians, not serious politicians. Serious politicians can only learn from this experience that it is not to work, not to break up constantly. You guys are obviously breaking up. As for my residence tax, I don't know why I would pay it, because I've lived in Serbia my whole life. I was born in Serbia and lived in Serbia. And you don't know that, because your father told you that Serbia was just a former Belgrade pashaluk and struggled all his life for Serbia to remain Belgrade Pashaluk. And my father said to me: Trebinje, it's you, son, Serbia; Bosnia, it's you, son, Serbia; Montenegro, it's you, son, Serbia; Vojvodina, it's Serbia. And, of course, the Woodland has never been questioned. That's the difference between your father and my father. My father was a railwayman, a highly qualified worker and a loyal Serb, and your father was a traitor to the Serbian people and you are a traitor, because it remained from the father to the son. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-12-0.u2068	Thank you. I'm taking a break by 2:30. [[After break - 15.05 hours]] We're going back to work. There is a word from MP Milos Jojic. Let the People's Messenger Cedomir Vasiljevic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-12-0.u2070	I will talk about the first five members of the law mentioned and of Article 12, as they speak about the essence of this government proposal, while the other 14 members are more technical and I would talk less about them. The aim of the adoption of this law is to comply with the obligation of the State to comply with the obligations of citizens under the Law on the settlement of obligations under deposited foreign exchange savings and the Law on loans for the economic development of the Republic. Therefore, it is possible for the tenants of the business space to acquire ownership of the business space currently used on the basis of the lease. In particular, it is important to point out that Article 4 of this Act lays down real market prices for the sale of a business space and that the sale of the same conditions ensure that the old foreign savings settles in part and before the maturity deadlines laid down by the Foreign Savings Act. In this way, the Republic of Serbia does not burden additional fiscal obligations with legal and natural persons, allowing savings to acquire property in the business space where the tenants were, as they are given the opportunity to obtain funds to buy a business space by buying foreign bonds from savings that are not leasers of business space. It is significant to point out that the buyer of the business space must at least 20% of the contracted price to pay in foreign currency, and the rest up to 80% in old foreign savings bonds and arrive and unmistakable liabilities based on loans for Serbia's economic development. This allows old savings to buy the bonds, regardless of their maturity, a business space in state property even though they have so far been used to rent it. So, this law has a full constitutional basis for its adoption, and we Serbian radicals advocated even in the pre-election campaign in 1997 for its adoption. Dear colleagues, MPs, this law has a constitutional basis for adoption. We worked Serbianly, in a pre-election campaign in 1997, advocated the adoption of this law and promised the citizens that we would bring it in if we were in power.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-12-0.u2071	Thank you. There's a word from MP Cedomir Vasiljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-12-0.u2072	Ladies and gentlemen, it is a great pleasure today to be an MP in the National Assembly when the government has proposed a law like this and we are talking about it, and I hope that we will make a final decision. If there is something today that is patriotic, this is what the Government of People's Unity has proposed, proposing a law like this, to repay to the people in this way what is owed to them. The people are owed more than ten years of old foreign exchange savings. The government of the People's Unity has gained strength and found a solution, which assures us that this will be realized. She did not approach what the people were most afraid of, which is to print money, to settle their debt with some primary show or cash mass to the people, or, God forbid, to remain a commitment to the people on the basis of old foreign currency savings. When we talk about it today, we can't not call in the time behind us. To this government, which proposed this law, a great burden fell, it was able to propose this law, although it was not -- the truth of will -- that nothing contributed to what happened, to the debt of the state and to the money spent as it was spent. That is why I believe that this proposal, which the government has made and the legislation proposed by the government, has the basis, has the opportunity to realise, especially when the property of the Serbian state is known, when there is enough business space and how old foreign savings can be reconciled. It is also very important to mention the law on the reconciliation of child supplements, i.e. the Government's proposal to settle the 24-month debt precisely for those who are the poorest today, because we know that children are entitled to just those who are threatened, who are limited by a certain amount of money and personal income. It is very good that, at this time of investment momentum and reconstruction, Serbia's country has found the possibility and way to settle its debt to the people and restore the trust of the people in its country, because without that trust, there is no real solution in its country. I hope so, and I am convinced that in the next period, after the law is implemented, we can return savings, foreign exchange and dinar to banks, trust will return to banks. It can't be our economy, as much as we want, without banks, without saving our citizens. It's not a single economy that can be implemented without saving citizens, so I don't think our economy or our bank. That is why I am convinced that the vast majority of MPs today will be in favour of this bill. I must stress, I am happy that after 10 years of significant emphasis on the Serbian Radical Party for the realisation of such proposals, the time has come for it to be realized and realised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-12-0.u2073	Thank you. There is a word from MP Dr Ljubisa Stojmirovic, and let MP Miodrag Disic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-12-0.u2074	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable fellow MPs, we have before us a bill that the citizens of Serbia have long expected from us and rightly so. The law was also a pre-election promise to most parties, and on those parties that gained the trust of Serbian citizens and were given the opportunity to be in the Government of People's Unity, it is also a decision to pass this law and face its application. It is normal for this law, like any other, to come across many criticisms, but it is a matter of those who enforce the law to consistently implement it and to show critics that they were wrong. What does it take to pass one law, no matter what? It is necessary that those who propose it have knowledge, will and, thank God, voter confidence, or voters in Serbia. The government of the People's Unity has proven to have all of this. Most importantly, the vast majority of Serbian citizens have made a decision that those parties that are now part of the Government of People's Unity can propose laws and implement them. Secondly, the fact is that these parties have in their ranks people who are capable and have enough knowledge. If we had the will to help the citizens of Serbia and to get Serbia out of these difficult problems, we have proven that many times already. One thing I'm a little worried about here is that there's no big criticism on this bill. Is this because the law is really extremely good, and I always think that any law and any proposal can be better, so I can't believe it's an extremely good law, or is it a sign that we don't have an opposition in Serbia? The task of each opposition is to criticise the legal solutions proposed by the ruling party, a coalition. I would rather believe that the situation in Serbia seems to be such that there is no opposition that could point to a ruling coalition of failures, mistakes in the adoption of various laws and implementation of these acts, and I would like the future parliament and future Serbia to always have some strong opposition that will help the ruling party find much better and more certain solutions. This legislative proposal, which is ahead of us, I believe that the vast majority of the Assembly will accept and I hope that, in the implementation of this law, it will also be persistent and that in the next elections, we will have even more support for the voters in Serbia, because we have proved that we are behind what we promise and that we are able to implement it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-12-0.u2075	Thank you. There is a word from the People's Messenger Miodrag Disic, and let the People's Messenger Alexander Djordjevic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-12-0.u2076	Mr. President, fellow MPs, the basic items and ideas of today's Law on the settlement of liabilities under old foreign exchange savings by selling certain properties owned by Serbia and the second law on the first issue of bonds in the name of reconciliation on the basis of residual children's allowances and maternal incomes must be said to be good. Why are they good? First, because they stem from the views of the Serbian Radical Party. The Serbian Radical Party has made these views public in the previous period, as well as in practice in its programme, and represents the idea that the serious state and the responsible government must be disbursed to their citizens. They must, for this reason, be fully cheeky in future restoration and in future development. These laws, which the state finally, after many years is at peace with, are today ahead of us, and I hope that they will be adopted today in this congregation hall. It's about someone who's willing to always criticize, he has reason to find those places in a good legal proposal. When we look at this first law on the reconciliation of liabilities based on old foreign savings, one can notice at first sight that one can say that not all citizens are put in the same position. Practically, the law gives the tenant the opportunity to buy out a business space on the basis of foreign exchange bond. Namely, another group of citizens, who are not in relations with the state based on leases, has no opportunity to buy out a business space, but the government had an idea to protect already existing lease contracts, and if they were eliminated or threatened, they would have one legal chaos in the whole area. The fundamental issue about this law is how to motivate tenants to start the process of buying property owned by the Serbian state, which are currently in their lease. We had one previous law and we saw that he had almost achieved his goal. The assumption is that even now, even though they have lease contracts for 5 or 10 years, they will have motives, especially which is likely to come up with a certain discount of these bonds with a slightly lower business space price. Perhaps there should have been a provision that even a tenant, if he did not take advantage of this possibility given in the law, that the next step be possibly a public auction, that we do not give him the opportunity to rent or rent this business space in the fifth year of the lease. With regard to the Law on Reconciliation of Restricted Obligations on the basis of Children's Supplements and Incomes, the point is that on one side we allow legal persons and entrepreneurs to settle their obligations to these issued bonds, resulting in 31. In 3.1999, and on the other hand, that citizens to whom the state owes this period of unpaid income on the basis of child benefits, can exercise their rights, practically, to purchase these listed goods and services, both legal entities and entrepreneurs. Those involved in the sale of goods and services, and who owe certain tax obligations to the state, are ultimately obliged to perform a service of 20%. It is also important to say that the issue of bonds, on this basis, does not create inflationary money, because the budget of the Republic of Serbia provides funds for the payment of due bonds, including interest coupons every 6 months of the year. As for the amendments to the Excise and Tax Act, finally, the government has stepped in the way of self-will in spending and so on. tax, which is not a tax, is an additional 3 per cent turnover tax, which is paid by all citizens of this country who make purchases on the territory of the city of Belgrade. The government, or assembly, has decided that the funds could be used by the Belgrade City Assembly for programmes in the municipal and railway infrastructure, approved by the Serbian government. Questions have been raised on the Finance Committee whether this decision is now in the jurisdiction of local self-government, whether this is an assessment of the work of the city government, etc. It is clear that only an additional 3% tax is being talked about, and that those competences of local self-government, or the city in the area of municipal taxis remain in force as they have so far. Well, I guess it makes sense that whoever made it possible to use those funds has complete control over them. This process was supposed to be like this at the beginning, so that the government's programme, related to this area, could be agreed to by the Executive Board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-12-0.u2077	Thank you. The People's Messenger Alexander Djordjevic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Zoran Milosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-12-0.u2078	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, the Honorable President of the Assembly, respected members of the government, have today found a package of laws drawn up by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Government of the People's Unity of the Serbian Radical Party, the Socialist Party of Serbia and the Yugoslav Left. The law package before us represents the continuation of laws that govern the fundamental issue of a country and the direction that this government has taken from the very moment it was established. The adoption of a law on the sale of certain immovableities in state property, in order to reconcile the obligations of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of foreign exchange savings of citizens and loans for the economic development of the Republic of Serbia, is a law that will restore the confidence of Serbian citizens in the institutions of the state system. We are aware of the extremely difficult social situation in which the majority of Serbian citizens are located, the government of the Republic of Serbia has kept its promise through these legal projects to insist on the adoption of a law that will resolve the radical and edgy finding of financial resources for the reconciliation of leftover child and maternal allowances and the law for the return of old foreign currency savings. The Old Foreign Savings Act, if we remind ourselves, contains the obligation of the Republic of Serbia to settle obligations to old foreign currency savings from 1 July of the current year to mid-2011, i.e. to provide 3,610 million German marks, and that the adoption of this law will make it possible for one of the sources to be from the sale of a state-owned business space, where it is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In its reasoning of the law, it pointed out that this law creates the basic conditions for the old currency savings to be settled in part and before the maturity deadlines and obligations laid down by the relevant law. In view of all of this, in this way the additional Republic does not burden the fiscal obligations of businesses and citizens, and in particular the savings enables the acquisition of a business space, which was rented by the tenants, and the possibility arises for the purchase of a business space by the purchase of foreign bonds from the savings that are not the tenants of the business space, or those who have not paid the loan. The government of the People's Unity has always pointed out that the state must keep the laws to be passed and implemented in order to protect the interests of citizens, who make the state as the basic bearers of its existence and development. The development policy of the Government of National Unity, the Serbian Radical Party and the Left Coalition, and the direction of action have always gone towards the basic postulate of Serbia's preservation as a parent state and as a whole of the Serbian people and all citizens living in it. Looking back on all the events that have followed us over the past 10 years, we can rightly tell the Serbian citizens that the government of the Serbian Radical Party and the left coalition has achieved part of its programme, both in the economic and social sphere. The people of Serbia are aware that we have done everything to repair every foundation of life after last year's aggression by the Western Alliance and the NATO Pact. Serbian radicals know that social poverty, that pensioners and workers are having a hard time living, but the fact that the government of the Republic of Serbia has found the possibility of paying back their pensions, that it will pay off the backlogs, that what was destroyed in the NATO pact's aggression has been built, says the government is really working in the interest of the entire people. The people can hide the government, they have the right to do so, they can't see how much effort has been made, but in these conditions in which this government has acted, it can rightly be said that the government has achieved exceptional results. In the end, the government of the Serbian Radical Party and the left coalition's work and results showed that the preservation of Serbia is their highest goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-12-0.u2079	Thank you. The People's Messenger Zoran Milosevic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Marijan Rističević be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-12-0.u2080	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party fully supports the proposal for a law on the sale of certain immovableities in state property in order to meet the obligations of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of foreign exchange savings of citizens and loans for the economic renaissance of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the proposal for a law on the broadcasting of state bonds to pay off liabilities based on child allowances and maternal supplements, as well as the law on public enterprises. The first draft law refers to the sale of a business space for obligations the state has towards citizens on the basis of old foreign exchange savings and loans for the economic rebirth of the Republic of Serbia. Under this bill, all current tenants will have the right to buy out a business space. And all those citizens who have old foreign savings and claims based on loans for the economic development of the Republic of Serbia, and are not tenants, will be able to sell their bonds and claims to the tenants for the purchase of business space. By adopting this law, citizens who have claims, and are not tenants of business space, will receive their funds. The tenants will buy a business space, and the state will settle its debts. As for bond broadcasting in order to pay child and maternal supplements, the government of the Republic of Serbia has come up with an excellent solution, which will allow citizens who are owed these payments to benefit from government bonds in order to meet a wide range of their needs. Or, on the other hand, to sell them to companies that can settle double tax with them. The Serbian Radical Party welcomes the proposal by the government of the Republic of Serbia. As regards the proposal for a law on public undertakings, this proposal sets out in a unique way the legal form of public enterprises. It is very clear and precise that the full establishment of public enterprises, the objective of establishing and operating, accountability and obligations in public enterprises, public business authorities, is ensured the protection of general interest, as well as all other elements related to the later functioning of public enterprises. What I would especially like to point out is very important in this bill, which is an enhanced control of the business of public enterprises by the competent authorities. It is particularly viewed through Article 21, which prescribes a decision on the distribution of profits, that this is taken by the board of directors of public enterprises, with the consent of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Then, Article 15, which prescribes the powers of founders in the event of disturbances in the business of a public undertaking, as well as Article 34, which prescribes that a public undertaking with a majority participation in state capital cannot pay off funds for sponsorship, advertising, donations, humanitarian and sports activities, representations, etc. until the consent of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is obtained. It was precisely these items that were a permanent source of abuse of financial resources in public enterprises. Many companies will use their monopoly position to generate extra profits, which they later unintendedly and irrationally spend. The bill is now proposing to prevent abuse of financial resources in public enterprises. With this in mind, the Serbian Radical Party fully supports these bill proposals and calls on the government of the People's Unity to continue with such and similar measures in the area of economic and social policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-12-0.u2081	Thank you. The People's MP Marijan Risticevic has the word, and let the MP Momir Markovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-12-0.u2082	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the Patriots, it seems to me that the election campaign in Serbia has already begun. I've listened to this bill of law boasting, by that people's saying, praise my mouth, I'll tear you apart. Also, I listened to the government's self-sufficient vice president's praises about the clever suggestions he wrote. It's so smart that by any chance I'm the commander-in-chief, I'd hang a medal on those heroic breasts or hang so many medals that it'd be used up by three lemons. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and the law professor here said it was so smart in those bill proposals that he wrote, for example. Kids can buy beer from a couple of brewers instead of a child's allowance. I understand that. Since Mr. Seselj was Deputy Prime Minister, children's allowances have been so late that in the meantime children have become full-time. And in Article 4 of this bond broadcasting law, these bonds will be broadcast on July 1st, so 12 days before the deadline. A smart law professor should be asked how the law can be applied 12 days before its adoption. When I read it, I thought the law was written by Milutin Mrkonjic, 12 days before the deadline, a little closer look, and that was Vojislav Seselj who became smarter than Milutin Mrkonjic, 11 days. Furthermore, the Deputy Prime Minister said that the foreign savings went missing by secession of republics that bought foreign currency in Serbia to the surplus dinar. That's not true. At the moment of the secession of those republics, a new currency was printed here. We all remember bringing IDs, trading money for a new currency. That new currency Topcider printed to the unconscious, and Seselj then claimed that money should be printed as much as possible, that it was a special type of tax and that the population would pay through the collection. How did the foreign debt come about? If I cheat on someone, say a few people for a few hundred marks, you will rightly arrest me. In Serbia, you stick a few posters, bring you in, take prints and open the file. Dafina Milanovic cheated millions of citizens for thousands of millions of marks and walked freely for five or six years, and eventually, along with a passport, she walked out of the country. Is that old-fashioned, too, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Professor of Law? Why didn't you judge her? What were you waiting for to get out? Are you waiting for this to get old too? Speaking of which, this law doesn't apply to foreign exchange savings at Dafiment Bank, as far as I understand. Could that money have been taken by Ante Markovic and the secluded republics? The proposal says that the sale is done in favour of repaying loans for Serbia's economic rebirth. Did that money also be taken by Ante Markovic and the secluded republics or this government? We of the Vojvodina Coalition welcome the government's intention and would be willing to vote in favour of the government's good intentions, to return foreign exchange savings to the poor by 2011. We'd really vote for it, but we doubt you'll have such a long term. Is your intention sincere and should you vote for it? I doubt it. How did this law and these laws come directly before the elections? Why didn't you bring them in a little earlier? Secondly, not all the money goes from selling state property to savings. The government, according to this proposal, first resembles itself. He takes a 20% commission in cash in German marks for the Republic of Serbia's budget. Since a high moral, high-patriot government can take German stamps, currency and hateful aggressor states. You don't like anything from the West except Western money and Western cars. It's not even constitutional. It is not constitutional to charge something for the Republic of Serbia's foreign exchange budget. You have authorised the Belgrade bank AD Belgrade to finance transactions under these laws. It's the bank from the three that won the concession on the Belgrade-Novi Sad highway. They haven't even nailed the stake by the road yet, and now that bank's charging the toll on this one tape of highway, made by the Dukes, so you're going to raise our money again and make our money a road and say it's yours. You stick a bridge on our noses all the time in Novi Sad. The Nova Sad had three beautiful broad bridges. He lost them because of your misjudgement. From the war reserves, you've made one for us, and that's good, if it's a gift. Over the previous bridges we were able to outrun four fiyakers compared to four fat horses, they were so wide. There's no duke wedding to get past this, because it's so wide that accordionist can't stretch the accordion. The sale of state property is not exempt from the one taken by violent and coercive laws by previous owners. You gave up the violence of the former systems and the former systems, but you have no intention of giving up the property acquired by this violence of that system. You even intend to sell such property now. One injustice to foreign savings you wish to remove another by injustice. The law professor claims that the return of such property is impossible, that it's obsolete, and that's not so true. If it was impossible, then how was the land taken back from 1945 to 1953, 40 years later, if it was 20 years old. As far as the Belgrade tax is concerned, 3%, if you really care about the good Belgraden people, you just don't cancel that tax. If you care about good citizens, cancel the number tax. Why don't you abolish the decision of your municipalities by which, against the law, thousands of acres of agricultural land are turned against the law into construction, and land to the fifth class, by law, can't be converted into construction. Let me explain it to the law professor - how is that possible? The government claims the opposition wants to sell the state. Well, you sell state property with this law, and whoever sells state property, he sells something that's state, he actually sells state property. Finally, to say that this law is only cosmetics and makeup ahead of the upcoming elections. Your intention is clear to fool the citizens again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-12-0.u2083	Replica, Deputy Prime Minister Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-12-0.u2084	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I regret that our opposition has made it impossible and burned to a very limited number of individuals in both quantitative and qualitative terms. Well, instead of justifiably opposing government proposals, they come up with pure nebuloses that can only affirm government proposals. I would refer only to a few pure fictions brought here by Ambassador Risticevic. First, as far as saving in Dafiment Bank is concerned, it is covered by this law, because it is also covered by the federal law on the return of old foreign currency savings. So all the old foreign currency savings are here in the same status. Secondly, the rest of the Yugoslav state during the secession of Slovenia, Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Macedonia had to increase its money emissions to curb the flood of dinars from the Slovenian, Croatian, Bosnian-Herzegovina and Macedonian markets. They pick up all primary show dinars charged with by their republican national bank at the time and those dinars are trying to buy as many goods as possible from Serbia. In order for that to be contained, it had to go to controlled inflation. those years, 1991, 1992. The SRS has advocated, when money from the primary show has to be printed already, in order to combat the efforts of the securitised republics, then these dinars should be invested exclusively in public works. And if by any chance this proposal had been accepted, the consequences of hyperinflation would have been much easier. Instead of going directly into consumption, if it had been for loans to social firms, if it had been invested in roads, if it had been invested in municipal infrastructure and similar facilities, the consequences would have been much more favourable. It is only because of the public, so that this fiction of Risticevic will not be accepted from anyone's side as truth - hello for granted. As far as the new laws are concerned today, we did not time those laws before the elections. We've been working on these laws for a long time. We even expected that the date would be adopted earlier. That's the only reason. Secondly, last year we had a war, a three-month aggression, which stopped many of our good initiatives. We've passed a law on the reconciliation of three back-up pensions to regular pensioners. We've overloaded the power industry. We had to take a break. We couldn't do it all at once. Then, we entered into action to rebuild and build Serbia after the bombing. We had to concentrate huge financial resources there, and now we're going to settle child supplements, as promised, we're going to settle everything, but we can't all at once, we need to gradually, so that the state doesn't get hurt. It would be the easiest thing for us at the same time, but the consequences would then be catastrophic, with an economy like ours. That's the only reason. As for agricultural pensions, the question now is whether or not we will succeed before or after the election, but right now, farmers need to know that they are not forgotten either, that they too will be reconciled in an adequate manner. And what's most important to us now, how we reconcile what category, we can't get into new delays. On the other hand, Ante Markovic ruined his foreign exchange savings by selling out the country's foreign exchange reserves, which amounted to $10 billion during his government's time, allowing for the purchase of currency exchanges for dinars, new presses from the National Bank of Yugoslavia. It's already a historical fact. The loan for Serbia's rebirth has been charged in a certain amount, I can't remember the exact figures anymore, it has been invested. Why he couldn't have been returned earlier -- there's a whole series of objective circumstances: the collapse of the country, the war and everything that's happened to us. This is a good option for that loan to come back. Maybe that variant, since I'm the amount of the dinar part of the loan and it's not particularly high, after all the devaluations and pre-tumbations we've had, and the foreign currency hasn't even been charged in any large amount, maybe this method could have been applied before. But if it were applied, it would be at the expense of something else, because in the economy, it's all based on connected vessels -- one move in one sphere immediately causes consequences in all other spheres. Each economic measure must be strictly appropriate to the conditions in which it is implemented and must be addressed with the basic objectives, efforts and opportunities of economic operators. It took much more time for this to be brought into line with the specific possibilities of our country and our society, through a systematic examination of the obligations of the firm towards the state and the possibility of these companies to settle those obligations within certain deadlines, assuming that, if they are in this order, 50% of their obligations and write them off. We need to pay on behalf of children's supplements and maternity supplements 4.260,000,000 dinars, and these companies that owe the state owe a lot more, and through this break-in and they will benefit and families that will come to money. The primary thing in all of this is to buy various kinds of goods. I chose from a list of 300 - 400 companies, whose names I announced, companies dealing with the production of the most diverse goods. There's beer amongst those goods. Sometimes beer can be bought for that bon, assuming that those money that went for beer, went for a child, went for baby diapers, went for children's shoes, clothes and the like. It is important here that the state, according to the rightholders, settle its obligations, and always the rightholders decide for themselves how that money will be used. And finally, I think they're in front of the new health minister, Mr. Milovan Bojic, and now I think he has to take responsibility before the National Assembly for next time not to show up here with two bigger teeth and not to make us laugh, not to laugh at the hall, not to make people's MPs laugh, but to listen to him very carefully, as I have listened to him. You know, I may have Googled his teeth, so I can listen to him, but don't you laugh at him, neither is he to blame for our health situation. Now we expect the new minister to solve the problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-12-0.u2085	He has the word Borislav Milacic, the finance minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-12-0.u2086	Just to help make things here as political anti-marketing, about things that have a deep social dimension, and about the reconciliation of obligations towards the users of the right, and provisions that are legitimate here, that are prescribed by Vice President Seselj, and yet they are done in second place, because the Ministry of Finance's resolution is in charge of it, I have to explain the following -- the debt found in the first member must be cut off with a certain date and it's June 30th. The bonds that will be printed must have a starting date for the interest account and it is July 1st. Therefore, on July 1st, it comes out of June 30th, when a balance of debt relating to the obligation of the Republic to pay for the children's allowances, and since July 1st, interest is on those bonds that will be issued in order to settle these rights. The law is extremely professionally and responsibly made, it creates real opportunities for this year, as I said, not only to get bonds, but to charge in about eight tranches, but to regulate at least a billion dinars of debt in this year on the basis of these benefits and the rights introduced by the law. I wouldn't discuss anything else.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-12-0.u2087	He has the word National MP Marijan Rističević, a reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-12-0.u2088	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister has confirmed two things to me -- the first thing is that it's really pre-election marketing and that here's the thing -- "keep the water so the masters don't leave." The second thing he admitted here was that the state was still behind Dafina Milanovic, so she did not prosecute or punish her, and she let her out of the country and took over her debt. Also, I have proven that Mr. Seselj sold state property or intended to sell state property to the state. I can also say to prove that Mr. Seselj is a traitor to the country. At the last session, we passed the Law on the issuing of land for the government's benefit. He who betrays the earth can be called a traitor of the earth. Also, it was proven that Mr. Seselj was receiving money from abroad. According to his own recognition, in 1991 and 1992, when it was due to war, he gave interviews to foreign journalists and for those interviews he received copyright fees, I think it was 1,000 - 2,000 German marks. That's from Mr. Seselj's confession at the time. In return, foreign journalists asked him to talk about rusty spoons, about burying bulldozers, so after that interview, foreign journalists gave him money, so they go to Croatia and ask - how much will you pay for us to broadcast this? And of course, these give them ten times as much. The biggest damage to this broadcast on foreign television was our country and it is no wonder we lost our reputation abroad, and for all that money received in the country only Mr. Seselj. His patriotism is not worth talking about. What kind of Serb is that when even The Hague court won't, which is so anti-Serbian? Also, Tudjman's police didn't want him in 1991 and 1992, according to his confession, they caught him somewhere in Jagodnja-Kocetin, and after 30 minutes of talks they released him. Most likely that they contacted Zagreb and those from Zagreb said - you know what, let him go to Belgrade, there will be more use there. As for health services, I may not have a lot of teeth, and Seselj doesn't have a lot of brains. As for my father, I believe Mr. Seselj's father was an honorable man, but that doesn't mean the son is honorable. Speaking of fathers, I think that father of honor, if he could see his behavior today, would regret not spending nine months before his birth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-12-0.u2089	Replica reply, Deputy Prime Minister Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-12-0.u2090	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the state does not make up its property. That's what every founding father of ours knows. The state makes up the apparatus of government, and state property is one side category, which the state uses to rule more effectively. It is sometimes used by deploying government services, sometimes by renting it, and sometimes by selling it. A smart country in every variant is always looking for the most comprehensive solution. Marian Risticevic doesn't know that. Second, in 1991, the National Assembly passed the Law on the return of the country to peasants, which was taken from them by administrative measures, not by agrarian reform. It's not the country taken by law, it's the decisions of the administrative authorities, so the executive authorities. There was no interruption of property relations. The property was held up, except someone else took and worked the land. That's why it was possible to get the country back. And it was true, taken from that and that, it goes back to that and that. Furthermore, Marijan Risticevic should know, when the state is in need, then he must make extraordinary moves. When 700,000 refugees come to Serbia, then Serbia should offer them a roof over their heads. Sometimes through collective housing. The first to arrive were apartments, as many empty dwellings were found in Belgrade in 1991, I personally remember the situation. Some people need to be paid for individual housing. The Zemun municipality remembered it first and gave 6,000 crying to refugees, city building land. Imagine if every municipality in Serbia had done so, the problem would have been solved long ago. That's a good example of reputation. No one took that land on their backs, she stayed there, she was enriched by houses and auxiliary facilities. There is much greater contribution to the agricultural land on which houses and gardens are located, than from bare fields, where wheat or industrial plants are sown. Look, take a nice piece of paper and a pen and figure it out. If a man sows potatoes, tomatoes, peppers, cucumbers and what else can he think of, what is the annual yield there, and what is the yield where wheat is sown and after that wheat harvested, you can see with 6 acres how much wheat value you can have at the world's highest prices (Dragan Vesenov: And how does Marjanović earn? ).
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-12-0.u2091	Don't get out of the place.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-12-0.u2092	He's sober until the break, and after the break, you don't even know what he's saying. What was crucial in the presentation of Marijan Risticevic, it is a question of New Sad bridges. Marijana Risticevic, the New Sad Bridges were not destroyed by the Serbian government, but by your political and military allies from the NATO Pact, the military force, served by your People's Peasant Party, as you called it, a party from which your President Dragan Vesenov receives orders and money to act against his country. We, the Serbian radicals, charged interviews to foreign journalists and fine with a receipt. And what would we give them for free? In those interviews we have always represented our policy and there has never been anything wrong with that policy. If someone found something wrong, it would have been hit on all the bells a long time ago. Of course, everything that is patriotic is wrong for you, and for you, it's only right that what is treasonous. Everyone can be a friend to you, if he is a traitor to his people - and Rasim Ljajic, Milo Djukanovic, and Djindjic and Draskovic and anyone else. You and your comrades can only fight over money, as you argued with Chanka and Milet Isaac. How was the fight? By being deceived by Dragan Vesenov. Before the elections themselves, when they had already formed the coalition, Dragan Veselinov reported some coalition parallel to that, the "Vojvodina Coalition" coalition and took all the money from the state, which was to be divided into three parts. Only Vesenov took the money and that's how their coalition broke. Remember, the press wrote both Isaac and Canak about it. There, Vesenov was cunning, but he was not fair (Dragan Todorovic, from the place: To the father). And his father was clever, but he wasn't fair. Genetics has long established that children inherit the traits of their fathers and mothers. It rarely happens that the father was a traitor and the son was a patriot. Does anyone in this room know one example that the father was a traitor son of a patriot? That's impossible. Where the father is a patriot and the son is a patriot. Where the father is a traitor and the son goes into treason. What's costing him, he learned in a parenting home how to do it. And as for the brain, intelligence, there is no crazimetre, which has such a low line, which can measure the stupidity of Marijan Risticevic. One who invents such a blubber can immediately win the Nobel Prize.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-12-0.u2093	He has the word Minister Zeljko Simic.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-12-0.u2094	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would have a replica at the expense of the previously stated remarks, which is related to the third of the proposed legislative solutions, which concerns Belgrade and the situation in it. So here's an objection that is related to the fact that it should convince citizens that they don't pay and that they don't have rights, which they usually have under the law. What is more important, because I speak as a Belgrade citizen and as a culture minister, is that the situation in Belgrade is so dramatic that there has been an absolute disintegration of all municipal services and the collapse of the culture of life of all Belgraders. What the Serbian government could no longer allow, is that the basic, basic institutions of the municipal system, the infrastructure levers that the city maintain at a normal value level, are being questioned. It is illogical that someone who does not live in Belgrade and does not know how many citizens of Belgrade have suffered over the past year because someone wanted to carry out the initial accumulation of capital because of their interests and on behalf of their interests, then must understand that this law, as well as a whole of the law, is proposed to the Assembly, so to the highest legislative body, first of all, because of raising the standard of living, to restore the country, to build and do so because of those who bombed this country. This is the most absurd claim I could have imagined, even if I had dreamed of, that someone could accuse the government of her being guilty of destroying bridges. They have been torn down by those who are destroying the foundations of this civilization, not the Government of the Republic of Serbia, who in the last year and some days since the bombing stopped doing everything, first of all, to reconfigure the country, to affirm its real values, and to sober the whole public opinion of the world from the drunkenness in which it fell, but not just that, but from the drunkenness in which some of our opposition colleagues were burned. It's about us building bridges. Contrary to this claim, we will continue to build bridges, not only material bridges, but all bridges that bring people together, because the party I belong to has always been open to all democratic and patriotic ideas, but has been closed to every idea of enslaved by this people and this free-loving country. That's not even a question. Those who are not from Belgrade would be obliged to ask us, us who are in Belgrade and who live in Belgrade, us whose grandfathers are Belgrade citizens. They should know that Belgrade is also megapolis from an arithmetic point of view, because it has more than two million inhabitants and has never cared about the national or religious background of those who are its citizens. We here must say openly, because of the citizens who listen to us, that Belgrade has become a butcher and that because of these funds that the Belgraders separate and deserve to live normally. You can't call someone a citizen, and at the same time he lives under conditions that are equal in the desert -- that they don't have water, that they don't have electricity, that they can't move from one place to another in Belgrade to meet their basic work obligations. So it's not even cynicism, it's an eclectic excerpt about elemental rules, about facts that are so white that no one can question them. I felt the need and the right to, as a folk MP and as a minister of culture, say that in the last few years, I have been restored and damaged by the quality of life of the Belgraders who deserve, precisely because of the tax that is involved, to live the lives of citizens, not the lives of cavemen. In that sense, I think that we should support not only that, but both previous laws, so the whole package of laws that undoubtedly represent the continuity of the government of the Republic of Serbia, which has its foundations to make a big improvement when it comes to the deterioration of the lives of all citizens, to continue rebuilding and building the country, despite the efforts of those who want to convince us that this is impossible, which they assured us a year ago, to convince us that even bridges are not bridges, even though the bridges, although the people know that we are working in his interest, and not against that interest. Therefore, I also want this opportunity, given that it was also a replica, to support both one and the other, and the third law, because it is doubtless the continuity of the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is doubtless and will surely be valorised by citizens, not because we are in a pre-election campaign, because we have realized that the pre-election campaign is when the government is established, and not when someone is using demagogue tricks to convince the people of something they cannot convince him of.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-12-0.u2095	There's a word from MP Momir Markovic. Let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Jovan Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-12-0.u2096	Dear Presidency, we have four legal projects that allow, above all, this government to wisely run the state and this country to function normally. By taking over the rule of the Government of People's Unity, the government took over all the obligations that the state had back several years. We heard the state in charge, we heard there was a failure to pay off the old foreign currency savings. The only way to deprive the state, and that, in doing so, does not print money, so that there is no inflation, is to just sell state property, primarily business space. As a man who works in a business dealing with the issue of business space backwards for a few days, I had a few phone conversations where people are interested in how this business slot will be sold, what the price will be, and what those who are not users of business space can do, and they have old foreign savings. Therefore, the law has caused great interest among Serbian citizens. He must have come across approval. Art. The 3rd and 4th members are most interested in Serbian citizens. The first one speaks about who has the right to buy business space. The other one's talking about the price. It's just that all the questions I've had so far are about those two members. As far as the proposal for a law on the issue of long-term government bonds of the Republic of Serbia is concerned, a burning issue is also being resolved. No children's allowances, maternal allowances, etc. have been paid for for two years. It's a long one. The way that the state also owes itself and the companies that owe the state are also due, with a 50% reduction, is to pass this law. The third law that is before us concerns amendments and additions to the Act on Excises and Taxes on Transport, i.e. the famous tax of 3%. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Belgrade was 500 years under the Turks, four years under Austrians, 50 years under Broz's dictatorship and four years under the Serbian Renewal Movement. It is in these four years that Belgrade has been robbed much more than in all these previous periods. There is nothing that could have been robbed in Belgrade without robbing it, first, the Together Coalition and after the Serbian Renewal Movement itself. They robbed even the possibilities. You couldn't get on the bus line without previously paying the mayor -- as he likes to be called, otherwise the president of the Belgrade Assembly -- directly in his pocket to pay 1,500 German marks. Never more and never more strongly been robbed by Belgrade than has been robbed for the past four years. It is this bill that resolves the issue and makes it impossible for those currently in power in Belgrade to continue robbing Belgrade. In the end, I can't say a few words about critics, specifically one critic, and the discussion of the other couldn't be criticism, but rather it could be something else, not to say slamming. I went to the Faculty of Political Sciences in the '80s. There I met Mr. Dragan Vesenov, a young scientific worker at the time, I think he was an assistant or a magistrate, or was preparing to be a doctorate, Mr. Dragan Vesenov who at the time was ondulating his hair and taping his beard or was on the other side, I don't know, to look like Marks, Mr. Drgan Vesenov, for whom everyone wrote the letter by Marks was the Holy Scriptures. Today, Dragan Vesenov criticises exactly what his friend Marks was at the time representing. It's an organization and nationalization. I don't know if then or now Dragan Vesenov was saying what he was thinking. Maybe he's mature. The scientific achievements of Mr. Drgan Veselinov - the dean of the Faculty will correct me - the maximum scientific achievements of Mr. Dragan Veselinov are the Latinies that he carried from Argentina to Vojvodina. He forgot, in Argentina, that you could ride for two days without meeting anyone, and Vojvodina is an extremely densely populated area. How much was Marksist Dragan Vesenov, and now he is not, a student in 1989 at a lecture asking: Mr. Professor, capitalism is a profit driving power, and what in socialism, or communism that you represent needs me, as a worker, to start doing my best and to do certain jobs? Well, my colleague, the Labour Order, this big medal with the gold and probably the silver crown. In the end, party policy Dragan Veselinov had already been on the political scene of Serbia, more specifically in Vojvodina. Citizens of Serbia, the people of Serbia have driven the people of Serbia off the political scene with a jugort. Therefore, what Mr Nikolic once said that, if Dragan Vesenov continues to do so, once he is brought out of the beard room, he should not, Mr Nikolic, have two glasses of Jugort and - he escapes. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-12-0.u2097	I believe we now have a bibliographer here, one of the expert assessors of my scientific work, but I see that he remembers my work from 1980 to 1989. How long were you a student? Nine years. I don't want to talk about you. I prefer to talk to your president. I find that much more interesting. Seselj knows his finances as well as his father's geography. It seems that's where the unification of knowledge began. Seselj performs here and says that with this bonding law, children's allowances will be paid -- four billion dinars, plus about 260 million more. How do you have the heart, Seselj, to deceive the people that this is possible? What are you doing, despite the election campaign that started? Do you know what four billion dinars are? You obviously don't know the financials. Here's Milacic. Do you know that's 25% of the money in the state? Who will give 25% of the money to buy Serbian government bonds? Where's that money? That's impossible. Secondly, what do you want to save the socialists from paying off their debts? What are you doing? How long are you going to suck up to them? I see it's your policy, but it won't save you. They will reject you and they will go to rule without you. They need neither the Serbian Renewal Movement nor the Serbian Radical Party. They're going to the elections without you, and they're going to try to rebuild the government. When socialists and juries suck you out, you won't be good for recycling waste either. There's nothing from you. May I point to one fact what are you doing? You promise your parents and their children that a child's allowance will be paid in two years' time. How? By selling government bonds, where companies will buy it, and these companies will have the right to buy a debt of two dinars for one dinar. That's your suggestion. Whoever owes the Fund for the development of 100 million, if he buys out the bonds for 50 million, he'll pay off a debt of 100. It's your policy. What can I say? The Socialists take from the Loan Development Fund, and Seselj forgives their debts. It's your policy, and it'll lead to that, that's what you do. When it comes to selling bonds to citizens, he can pay a debt from one dinar for a single dollar, and the Socialist who subtracts from Borka Vukic, from the Fund for the Development of Debt that doesn't pay back, will be forgiven by half of the debt. That's what you're helping them with. As you want the property that was nationalized in 1945 sold to pay off their debt since 1990, now you want to pay off other debts by forgiving their debts. They have to resign for that. And you should know that. When you're talking about my father, let me tell you something, Seselj, it's a mistake that you're doing it, a big mistake. Now I find out for the first time that your father taught your geography, that you didn't teach it at school. For you, Serbia seems to be where your father told you. I'm sorry, but where you said Serbia was, there's no more Serbian people. My father was in Vojvodina, the Serbs were rich in Vojvodina while he was there and there were twice as many of them, and where you said that Serbia, that the Serbian people, there was half of the Serb people, lived in the heats and dismayed. I'm not looking for proof that I'm a Serb. That's what you asked from the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts. However, the president, whom you very much respect today, who you once attacked in a senseless and fierce manner, said that the political voice of the Serbian Academy of Sciences is the same as the voice of the agricultural cooperative, you remember. This means that you could very easily seek proof of your background and at the veterinary station. The only law I'm going to support today is a law establishing a veterinary station, to make it easier for you to prove your Serbian background.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-12-0.u2098	Replica reply, Vice President Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-12-0.u2099	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, there are no political parties in our country's debt to the citizens, to the people. There are government debts. As those government debts were made, I was already talking about it. Those government debts have to come back. They must be returned by any authority, even if, God forbid, once the party of Dragan Vesenov came to power, she would have to give it back to the citizens. Far be it from you to come to power, I agree with Petričević, but our people are neither naive nor stupid, and do not worry, that trouble will surely not befall you. [[tossing out of the O.R.]] Debts must return, and we return them in the most rational way, since the amount is very large - 4.260,000,000. Debts do not return immediately but are paid through bonds on which interest flows at the Escont rate of the National Bank of Yugoslavia and as much as 10% higher. That rate is 3% a month, as far as I know, if that's how the finance ministers are, that's another 10% to it. It saves bonds from devaluement. From now on, in four years they have the same value, according to this rate. The government's debt companies have been committed by the end of this year with 20% of their debts to sell bond goods. It's a huge number of companies, almost 400, and then there's plenty for that amount of bonds. It is true that these companies are in the social sector and that they were taking loans from the Fund for the Development of Serbia, that they are messy in returning these loans. We can't shut down these companies now because they can't repay the loans. We must force them to return it, and we must force them, on the other hand. That is why this law contains one convenience and one obligation. The convenience is that 50% are written off if they take bonds for their goods, and, on the other hand, they are obliged to do so, under the threat of sanctions. That's the point. As far as geography is concerned, my father had an excellent knowledge of geography and knew where Serbia was. Your father, Mr. Vesenov, didn't even want to know the geography, didn't want to study. He was not interested in Serbia or the Serbian people either. He sought for himself a feud where he would be an absolute master and this feud tried to make in Vojvodina. Such as your father has ruined both Serbia and the Serb people. You created the basis, both AVNOJ and the 1974 Constitution, for breaking Serbia and the Serb people. It is not the Western Serbs' fault that they remain outside the borders of the current Serbia, but the Serbian traitors who sold themselves to Serb enemies, as you are today selling yourselves. All Serbian friends are your friends and allies. From them you receive a warrant to act against your own people. Is that true? And Javier Solana, and Madeline Albright, and Clinton and everyone else, that's your friends, you're acting according to their instructions. One more thing to let you know. The Serbian Radical Party serves no one but its people and their homeland, but when we are with someone in the coalition, we are a correct coalition partner, extremely correct. This can also be witnessed by socialists and juries. Kill God what a coalition partner you are. That can be witnessed both by Mile Isaac and Nenad Canak. So the difference is between heaven and earth. Whether this coalition will continue to be healthy and firm or not, it does not depend at all on you, Mr. Vesenov, or on your foreign mentors. Neither you can fool us, nor you can confront us, nor can you initiate any dissension in Serbia, because you have been read long ago. Whether strong will be a coalition or not, it depends on our success. As successful as we are, we will remain complex and solid. The people will give everyone the price, what they did, how much they contributed. You keep talking about the election campaign. All we politicians do is calculate to challenge a certain effect in the next election. Yes, but we serious politicians, who we don't steal, who we don't rob, like these companies of yours from the Serbian Renewal Movement in Belgrade, and those other companies of yours in Novi Sad, Kickinda, Pancheva, wherever you came to power, or your allies, you were all around, robbing everything that came into your hands and disgusted the people of Serbia. Now you're moaning against the federal constitution. And he bothers you. By yesterday, you were counting on the election to win 274% of the vote. That's what your public opinion research was like. When they add some of our small percentages, it goes up to 283. Now you're afraid of choices. Now you're afraid of constitutional opportunities for these elections to be direct. You've been whining until yesterday that you're worth nothing to the Greater Citizens when there's a Greater Republic, whatever majority you win in the Greater Citizens, you can't make up for it in the Greater Republic. So now we're giving you a chance to win most of them both in one and the other. What you're afraid of now is choices, which you're running now, which you're now announcing boycotts. Neither will these comrades of yours. Everything's falling apart, it's falling apart, it's going away. Where you leave Risticevic, something Risticevic said went somewhere, something rude said. That's where you're going, that's where you're going. That's where you're going, that's where you're going. It's not worth it, it's ruined. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-12-0.u2100	The messenger of the people, Jovan Djordjevic, has the word, and the messenger of the people of Mita Abram, shall be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-12-0.u2101	Dear President, honourable members of the government, fellow MPs, I speak as a worker and an MP for the Yugoslav Left. I speak on behalf of a vast number of citizens of the occupied city of Nis, whose local self-government is managed by NATO mercenaries. Today I'm just going to talk about the third item of the agenda, and that's the bill on the sale of certain immovableities in state property. The conditions for the adoption of this law and this law were met immediately. The reasons are very numerous, but I'm going to point out the most significant. This law strengthens citizens' confidence in the institutions of the system and the rule of law in the country. This law prevents machinations with a business space, especially in those areas where the local government is being held by NATO mercenaries. This law provides the necessary resources in the budget for the financing, reconstruction and construction of the country, as well as the programme of social protection of the poorest. This law provides for the rational use of certain resources, as well as those that are state-owned, but are not used by the state. I'm asking myself, and one question to you, I'm offering possible answers. After this law is passed, who loses here and who wins? All those who want chaos in Serbia, who want to see Serbia hungry, poor, devastated and occupied, are at a loss. So, at the loss are the enemies of our people, both external and internal. On the other hand, Serbian citizens, those who do not have their country and who would not give their country for a handful of bloody dollars. We know where we are. We can't hope for anything good from those who threw bombs at our children. Our strength is in the people's unity, and the people's unity gets its full expression in the government of national unity. The government handled election statistical assessments, relying on its own forces. The legislative proposal ahead of us is a new mechanism for using a small number of our greats, and unfortunately so far untapped possibilities. I only remind you that in its progressive programme of reconstruction and reform, the Yugoslav Left has long participated this possibility and has shown it to all the important institutions of society. As a member of the Yugoslav Left, I am pleased that the JUL programme's definition has been accepted by the public. However, I am pleased as a citizen and as a worker of Nis, when I adopt this legislative proposal, I believe that we will, I will be able to return to the exalted head among my colleagues and among my men, to look them in the eyes and tell them that I voted in the National Assembly for the better of our children and all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-12-0.u2102	Thank you. There is the word of the messenger of the people of Mita Abram.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-12-0.u2103	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there has been a lot of talk here today about this law that needs the Assembly to adopt. The Serbian Radical Party will support this law, and I hope everyone else, for the great joy of the citizens and the savings that have been spared in this country in time. The essence of all this is very important, that the state settles obligations to the rightholders. If by any chance this government of the People's Unity had those 10 billion dollars that Ante Markovic once threw into the fog, it wouldn't have happened today. This government would do anything in time and fulfil all obligations to the rightholders. However, everything that has happened, however, this government of the people's unity, which is with great effort, we all know what has happened to us in the last two years, without speaking back much more, has found opportunities and strength to do what is best to make commitments to the citizens. These obligations are in one situation that is not even a little envious at this point. However, the government has had the strength to do and to defile the citizens who have found themselves damaged at this time. So I will support this bill on, hopefully, once again, the great happiness of the citizens to whom this money, these bonds, will come very well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-12-0.u2104	Thank you. The People's Messenger Goran Perčević came to the floor, and let the People's Messenger Toma Markovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-12-0.u2105	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, I would like to say a few words about the draft law amending and supplementing the Excise and Sales Tax Act. I believe that these changes and additions are not ordinary changes to the tax code, as it might seem to someone who is uninvited at first sight. This is about the law of vital importance for normal life in our capital. It is known that we live in a time of great difficulties caused by the governments of the aggressor countries. The government of the Republic of Serbia has shown that it is also possible to achieve extraordinary results in restoring and initiating development in these conditions. Those results are very visible. However, it is equally easy to see that in Belgrade we have incompetent, bribery, non-patriotic power. Belgrade's citizens face daily collapse of municipal enterprises, urban chaos, unintended use of these funds. It is not remembered that someone who lives, for example in the Old Town or in another part of Belgrade, fears the loss of water, as a basic means of life. And the citizens of Belgrade have invested in his infrastructure for years. All of us living in Belgrade have faced an attempt by the city government to hide its incompetence and corruption by putting our hands in the public's pocket, by increasing the 3% tax, which is specifically used to solve the capital's problem. By this law we refuse such an attempt and go the only way possible. We are not removing the funds that are allocated for this purpose, but we are ensuring that they are used for the purpose and for the benefit of the citizens. I will remind you, funds from a special fee are used to participate in funding under the law, to participate in the financing of the city's municipal and traffic infrastructure programme, to continue building the Belgrade railway node, as well as for the rehabilitation and economic-financial consolidation of public utility companies. That is why it is certain that citizens will support the adoption of this law. They will support it just as they supported and seductive order in the City Transport Company, because it prevents further burden on citizens and allows funds that are now being spent on normal and better life in our city. Finally, citizens know that the government of the Republic of Serbia and this assembly are the most responsible for the situation in the Republic and ask the government to stand in the way of those whose concept is - the worse. And it's not realistic to expect domestic lawyers, those who bombed us yesterday, to be honest and serious, to solve life problems in this city. In Belgrade today, we have the opposite of two political concepts. One is on the line of what represents the restoration, development and resolution of numerous problems imposed on the outside, and the other concept is logic - the worse, the more the subjective attitude towards aggressor and personal interest, corruption and other forms of crime. Finally, the dedicated use of a 3% fee will ensure not only the prevention of abuse and other crime but also enable funds intended for municipal infrastructure and economic and financial consolidation of public enterprises, municipal enterprises, not only to be used by solving everyday citizens' problems but also to engage in the economy of this city, which will have many other positive effects. The local elections ahead will put an end to unhappiness, incompetence, corruption and vasality of local authorities so far, protect this city from public functions paralysis and open a perspective for Belgrade. The new local government will work in the interests of Belgrade, but also countries in general, not for the purposes of any foreign or private interest. Today's law is one of the measures that the government of the Republic of Serbia is taking to eliminate the consequences of the real wasteland left behind by the city's authority in Belgrade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-12-0.u2106	The word has a People's MP, Toma Markovic, and let MP Tomislav Milenkovic, minister of Serbia's government, be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-12-0.u2107	Dear Presidency, honourable fellow MPs, I am sure this law on amendments to the Excise and Sales Tax Act will accept the largest number of Belgraders with relief. The troubles of Belgrade's Belgrade citizens, when it comes to municipal problems, are difficult to understand if it is not daily in Belgrade. Any of the issues in the municipal area in Belgrade are controversial or more specifically said by the functioning of Belgrade's public utility services is disastrous. Take, for example, all known cases from GSB. Is that where the words are to be spent? Because the experience of Belgrade's citizens in urban transport is bordered by abuse. You have seen, by intervention of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, by bringing new leadership, such a situation has changed dramatically for the better, with a tendency to improve transport. Take any municipal action from Belgrade, you will encounter chaos with long-term consequences across all municipal branches. Should we talk today about the problems of city water and the plight of citizens in water supply? Can the question of water be resolved in a way that is now resolved by the City Hall’s leadership? Look how dirty our capital is. He's never been more abandoned in his history. We are ashamed of the citizens, and those who really need to be ashamed are visiting the world's metropolis and muddying their country and people, of course, about the cost of the Belgraders. I don't think I should remind you that the overall municipal problem is in Belgrade City Assembly and the Belgrade Executive Board. The same chaos exists in other branches of Belgrade, so there is no need for me to explain each and every one of them individually. Just walk around Belgrade and you'll see what I'm talking about. Or, more specifically, I'm a MP from Section 3. New Belgrade - Zemun, and I am a resident of the municipality of Novi Belgrade, where local self-government is running the SPS, so I know the problem of this municipality well. What is the attitude of the City Assembly towards SO New Belgrade is sufficient, without my comment, and you will draw your own conclusion: The municipality of Novi Belgrade has about 320,000 inhabitants, the annual budget allocated by the Belgrade City Assembly is 24 million dinars. At the same time, the municipality of Stari Grad, which is four times smaller per capita than New Belgrade, receives an annual budget of 74m dinars from the City Assembly. Compare those numbers. You understand that local self-government in the Old Town is being conducted by the former Coalition Together. The citizens of New Belgrade face other municipal problems, as well as other Belgrade citizens, and there is no isolation. But for almost four years now, during this city government, we have been trying to resolve their jurisdiction and obligations, despite other major problems, three major issues, important not only for New Belgrade. First, it's construction of a traffic station on the street. Toshin's well, which is not only a problem as a narrow throat of traffic towards the New Belgrade industrial zone, but is a huge problem of water drains to sewers, groundwaters, where in four local communities with about 30,000 inhabitants on the basements of buildings swimming water in the autumn-winter period. Another problem is building a primary school in the Bezanski Kosa settlement, part of the municipality of Novi Belgrade, where more than 35,000 people live. You can imagine how in this, conditionalally speaking, small-town elementary school students with the kind of city transport they've been getting to their schools all over New Belgrade. I stress, it's about children, not citizens who didn't want to vote for the torn coalition "Together". The third problem is the Sports Center "April 11", which can literally collapse at any moment and lead to a great tragedy, which no one can even think about. I stress that this facility is also intended for young people. However, every year these problems enter into the work programme of the Belgrade City Assembly, but -- are they realised. I know you know they're not. But today, I hope, after the adoption of this law, the chances are higher and therefore the citizens of my municipality, as well as the other Belgrade citizens who single out their 3%, will finally welcome their funds to be invested in solving the problems most burdened by the residents of the city of Belgrade. In the end, I would like to tell the citizens of Belgrade not to fall for the lies of the opposition and the yellow press that someone is taking their 3% from Belgrade. That leaves their money. It's the money of the Belgrade people. It's just that now it's really going to be spent on solving their problems, not unintentionally spent on world trips. They have a happy trip in the white world, but at their expense. As of today, Belgrade's government of the Republic of Serbia will solve its accumulated and abandoned municipal problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-12-0.u2108	Thank you. Please, since the discussion began on the fourth and fifth points, I suggest we finish the third one first. Is anyone else answering for a third-point discussion on the agenda? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-12-0.u2109	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will address you shortly after the previous MPs have already spoken a lot about the third item of the agenda. The government of the People's Unity with the bill on the sale of certain immovableities in state property in order to meet the obligations of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of foreign exchange savings of citizens and loans for the economic development of the Republic of Serbia is still going towards reconciliation of debt towards citizens by allowing for the purchase of business space. So, current tenants can buy foreign exchange bonds of foreign savings that are not leasers of business space, and they buy that business space by going 80% on behalf of old foreign exchange savings and loans for economic development and 20% on behalf of effective foreign exchanges, so cash. It is particularly important that the government wants to address this problem on a realistic basis, so no inflation is encouraged. And more importantly, it is to accelerate the process of ownership transformation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-12-0.u2110	There's a word from MP Tomislav Milenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-12-0.u2111	Dear President, honourable MPs, the government of the Republic of Serbia has submitted proposals to the National Assembly for several laws to be discussed and adopted, which we are discussing today. All these laws are in place to achieve the set objectives of economic development, reform and stability of the economic system in general, and in particular the social security of citizens. The government of the People's Unity consistently and responsibly, and after the criminal NATO aggression on our country, continued to create a measure of economic policy towards overall development. The destroyed material goods, the halved social product, tens of thousands of people without a job, didn't hesitate us or leave us without a solution. We turned to problems and took a responsible approach to their resolution. Three global tasks on the plan for reconstruction, reform and development, set up by Socialists by Socialist Party of Serbia President Slobodan Milosevic, were accepted as the most important task, as our highest responsibility to the people and the state. In this work, we acted in harmony with such a degree of responsibility. After us are very great results, achieved first of all on the restoration of the earth, the results of admiration and pride. At the same time, successful realisation of the economic - social programme, all the ruined factories in NATO's aggression restored their production, redefine their production programs and returned workers to work. Of the 80,000 workers who have lost their jobs, 65,000 are employed, and by the end of the year other workers will be back. Today they are highly profitable companies, capable of permanently increasing the social product. It is very important to point out that these results have been achieved with constant maintenance of the high level of economic stability and social security of citizens. By continuously adapting the measures of economic policy, above all in monetary policy, fiscal, external trade, as well as policies of sound budgetary constraints and price policies, we have managed to implement and implement social justice policy. During the most intense pressures on our people and our country, we have maintained a satisfactory level of established social rights in the area of social protection. We have never questioned the rights of different areas of social security of citizens, nor will we narrow them down, regardless of the difficulties we face at the expense of these rights. First of all, I am referring to the laws established in the area of pension - disability insurance, combat and disability protection, child protection, protection of socially endangered persons, refugees, exiled and displaced persons, as well as other rights. Our social protection system, according to the degree of established rights in this area, is the most humane in the world, so it will remain. Of course, under the conditions of high restrictions and depravity that a number of countries in the world carry out in the form of sanctions, the Government of the People's Unity has additional problems in the realisation of social rights. The problem is in the real possibilities for budget revenues to serve these rights regularly, and at the level of fees in accordance with the law. That's why we got into the late payment of certain rights, as is the case with children's and maternal supplements. The government of national unity, in line with the adopted policy in the field of family care and population policy, has approached the solution to this problem. A solution has been offered in the form of long-term bonds from the Republic of Serbia. The law in this area, offered by the Serbian government, is today ahead of us. Under its essence and the solutions offered, conditions are provided for the full reconciliation of the budget commitments in the area of child protection in a non-inflation way. The offer of a four-year maturity model, the protection of the value of these bonds at an econtamination rate of the National Bank, increased by 10% for the period of maturity, as well as the stimulation of legal persons to meet the old fiscal liabilities of 50% of their own debt based on fiscal obligations, are essential solutions that allow the use of those in the achievement of personal consumption and reconciliation of the obligations of natural persons on the basis of their tax obligations. It is particularly important to point out that natural persons, i.e. users of children's rights, can, both in terms of arrival and inaccessible bonds, reconcile a number of different obligations defined in Article 4. It's a bill of law. In one word, it is a new market-based non-cash form of payment, which creates conditions for further reform steps in establishing a securities market of value and financial market. The results of this law, positive and negative, should be used for future new solutions, especially in determining the financial market system. In particular, I must point out that this law solves the social security of an important social category of population, such as family and children. For all things, I propose and advocate that this law be passed. I also think the other laws, proposed by the agenda of this assembly, are good and should be adopted. In particular, I am stressing the law on the sale of immovable property for the settlement of foreign savings and loans for the economic development of the Republic of Serbia. Much has been done so far. Some of the obligations of the state are fulfilled in accordance with these previous laws. This law provides security savings and eliminates potentially speculative actions through forms of leases and property rentals held in state property. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-12-0.u2112	Thank you. There's a word from MP Zivko Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-12-0.u2113	Dear President, honourable fellow MPs, as time has moved on, my predecessors said they had given their opinion, both individually and their parties, on the bill on the sale of a certain mobility coalition of Serbia's Peasant Party and the United Pension Party of Serbia this time, as I once said at the beginning of my verified mandate, a normal review of the materials delivered. They no longer go there through NATO's pact to be verified by Covic there, so that he can allow our representative to stand here in the Assembly. So now I can say in a legal way that I represent our two parties, which I represent here in parliament. I would not look back on what was and whether it was good to blame someone in the past period for which this or that was not done, should be looked at - what to do in the present conditions and whether at this moment this Government of the Republic of Serbia has found the right, the right, the right ways to save what our people say can be saved, in the present time, and possibly looking for a future time! We support the proposed law that I'm talking about, and also all these other proposed laws, so that I don't go out for the pay phone again later, I'll look back briefly on them. We support for this reason that we believe that by selling certain immovable property of the Republic of Serbia, it will lead to a significant amount of funds, which will be tried to alleviate our plight, caused by, firstly, the foreign savings of citizens and these loan bonds for the rebirth of Serbia. So there are many ways to allow citizens to, behold, and this final debt of the state towards us in a certain way will be able to use people, especially since there are more possibilities for this money to be recovered at least in a way. I also point out that the current way of using the lease has been privileged by some users of this business space, and used for very small funds in the extra zone - Terrace - Prince Michaela - or in the first zone of the restaurant for very low prices. I think this law would end it, that privilege to these users, so they pay adequate use of that space in an extra zone. I would also briefly refer to the proposal for a law on public enterprises. Please, we'll do it tomorrow. ) With this I would like to conclude the presentation on this proposal for a law on the sale of certain immovable property, we support and we will vote for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-12-0.u2114	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. If no one ever hears from you again, I'll conclude the search in principle. I ask the MPs to set up a quorum to place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I put to the vote the draft law on the sale of certain immovableities in state property in order to meet the obligations of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of the foreign savings of citizens and loans for economic development in the Republic of Serbia, in principle. There were 159 votes against two, no abstentions, no two votes, a total of 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. A review of the bill in particular will continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Thank you. Dear People's MPs, we continue the session of the First Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2000. I would like to inform you that 140 MPs are present today's session, according to official record. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to place their identification cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am informing the National Assembly that I have approved the absence of the following MPs: Duško Matkovic, Dr Milet Novakovic, Dr Biro Gezi and Milan Rodic. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. I remind you that at yesterday's session, we completed our work on the first two points of the established agenda of the session and heard the opening statement which was submitted by Borislav Milačić, Minister of Finance on the draft law on the agenda of this session. We have also carried out a principled search on the proposal for a law on the sale of certain immovableities in state property in order to reconcile the obligations of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of the foreign savings of citizens and loans for economic development in the Republic of Serbia and adopt the bill in principle. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on the Sale of Certain Immobilities in State Property in order to reconcile the obligations of the Republic of Serbia under the basis of the currency savings of citizens and loans for economic development in the Republic of Serbia to Article 3 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The amendment was tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. The Government's representative did not accept this amendment at the meeting of the Finance Committee. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee to declare this amendment. The rapporteur of the Legislative Committee does not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He has the word National MP Marijan Risticevic.
