ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-09-0.u2201	I apologize for this long break, which follows because the political parties' parliamentary clubs have held appropriate consultations and these consultations will continue tomorrow. We're about to move on to the agenda. Before that, I welcome the Serbian Renewal Movement Parliamentary Club, which is with us again in the Assembly. I am opening the First Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2000. I would like to inform the Assembly's session that in the morning it has come to our Assembly and President-elect Vojislav Kostunica, President of the Republic, whom I welcomed on your behalf and congratulated him on your behalf, on the election of President of the Republic. I would like to inform you that according to official records, 198 MPs attend today's session. [[Applause]] In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units. We have a quorum. I am informing the National Assembly that I have approved the absence of the following MPs: Bozidar Vujanovic. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-President, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. You were presented the minutes of the July 12th and 13th 2000 session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's First Extraordinary Session in 2000. Any objections to the record? No, there isn't. ) Since there are no objections to the minutes, I am voting on the minutes of the session of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2000, held on 12 and 13 July 2000. Please set your cards to MPs before. We have a quorum. I'm putting the record to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I find that 149 MPs voted against two abstentions of 21, 19 did not vote. There are 191 MPs present in the O.R. I received a notice from Vlajko Stojljković, which reads: "As I took over, by verifying the mandate of the Federal MP in the United Republic of the Federal Assembly on 7 October 2000, according to federal law, the rights and duties of the federal MP in that council, and since, under the Law on the State Administration of the Republic of Serbia, "the minister cannot perform any public, professional and other duties incompatible with his office as minister" (Article 49(1)).I would like to inform the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that there has been a discrepancy with my role as interior minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia." In accordance with Article 202., Article 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been informed of this by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. I suggest that, in accordance with Article 202(4). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly finds that Vlajko Stojiljkovic has informed the National Assembly that he has assumed the right and duties of the federal MP in the Greater Republic of the Federal Assembly, and since, according to the Law on the State Administration of the Republic of Serbia, the minister cannot perform any public, professional and other duties incompatible with his role as minister, the irreconcilability of his functions has taken place, so he ceases to act as Minister of Interior in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. He has the word of Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia Dr Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-09-0.u2202	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Serbian Radical Party's MPs have applied for a no-confidence vote by Interior Minister Vlajko Stojljkovic. If Vlajko Stojljkovic had resigned immediately after that without any reason, we are toleranceous people who have no intention of getting revenge, we have no intention of mortifying someone who is leaving the post where we attacked him, but this is an extreme insolence that he explains that he is leaving the office of interior minister because it is incompatible with the function of MPs in the Greater Republic of the Federal Assembly, when that is not true. Here, I haven't left the post of Deputy Prime Minister yet, and I'm a federal envoy. It's not incompatible, and I've been in the last term. Vlajko Stojiljkovic can give another explanation of his resignation, but he cannot do what does not correspond to the real facts. He doesn't even have to give an explanation, he's had enough to resign and the Assembly's finding it, because it wouldn't be our goal to mortify him here today, just to get rid of him.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-09-0.u2203	Thank you. There is a word from MP Borisvoje Borovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-09-0.u2204	Mr. President, honourable MPs, I don't think we from the Serbian Renewal Movement should participate in this farce. Perhaps the Serbian Radical Party's intention was entirely justified, to demand his resignation, but I don't think we should accept the argument Therefore, we will seek what was already provided for in the SPO proposal, that it be resolved, to be replaced as a failed police minister. [[From the bench Dr. Vojislav Seselj: We asked for a shift.]] He can't perform any function in the Federal Parliament on that basis. I think that's the way we should talk today. Vlajko Stojiljkovic did nothing expected of him as police minister. As JUL's senior official, he followed the promotions of the president's wife. The promotion, of course, was unsuccessful. All the time, he abused the police department to serve as his escort guard to him and the person I mentioned. So, I wouldn't "any more wrinkling," as Mr. Seselj said, it's not about that, this is a serious parliament. We were once more serious MPs than we are now allowed, thanks to the people who have defined themselves as political parties who have shown true will at this time. Today, as someone who needs to preserve honor, we cannot allow a fugitive to appear without any responsibility. I expected the Republic government to resign completely today. But since there is a certain political agreement, I don't want to go in there and spoil such agreements that bring good to this people. So please do not vote in this way on Mr. Minister Vlajko Stojljkovic's actions. [[A partial round of applause.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-09-0.u2205	Let me explain. There's no vote on the findings. Since there is a proposal from the Serbian Radical Party's Parliament Club, when setting the agenda, you will say whether or not you agree with that agenda point. Therefore, if this is not respected That's right. [[from the bench Dr Vojislav Seselj: If it is a resignation, then it is pointless that this point of the agenda be.]] (From the bench Dr Vojislav Seselj: But if anyone wants to discuss it, they can rephrase - the responsibility or work of Vlajko Stojljković so far. If he resigned, we have no reason to discuss it. ) I suggest that Mr. Vlajko Stojljkovic says whether it is resignation or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-09-0.u2206	Mr. President, gentlemen of Parliament, I am not a member of the JUL, I am a member of the SPS General Committee and a member of the SPS since its establishment. On the occasion of Mr. Borovic's claim, firstly, the Ministry of the Interior, whose head I led, acted for several years in the very complex and almost most difficult conditions in which our country was located. It honourably carried out tasks in defence of Albanian separatists, in the fight against violence and the prevention of crime. I'm proud of it, and I'm proud of the members of the Ministry who did it. I agree to resign. I'm being attacked by NATO forces, and it's my honor to know I'm me. Also, the argument given by Mr. Seselj, Deputy Prime Minister, is arguments from sources that are for personal reasons. [[From the bench Vojislav Seselj: a victim of the NATO Pact]]
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-09-0.u2207	Mr Stojiljkovic, you have not solved any political murders in Yugoslavia and Serbia. For Kosovo and behaviour in Kosovo, I will leave another opportunity to talk. People went there with honor and had the principle of co-ordination, which followed orders, and that is one question that is not for this parliament. You have not solved the murder of an assistant Serbian police minister, you have not solved the murders of many politicians, including some JUL vice presidents and other political parties, who were at the time when you had the greatest power and until there was a war in Kosovo. The biggest sin of yours is that you have just beaten members of the student and the people's OTPOR organization. You have arrested hundreds of people by saying that they are members of the NATO organization and that is your greatest sin, so that you cannot represent the will of any youth, student and others you have applied to the repression. In order not to specifically open the discussion, Mr Tomic puts everything on the agenda that we present today, I think it would be a moral act to resign for other reasons, that you do not have to be proud, rather than be proud and continue to work if you were right. This principle will no longer be respected in this House and you will not have the right to make fun of the people, MPs, with a Parliament that soon, hopefully, since 17 December, will have a completely different composition. Personally, against you as a man, of course, I can't have anything, but what you did to our children will still be the subject of perhaps some of your criminal responsibilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-09-0.u2208	Thank you. He has the word Zoran Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-09-0.u2209	Your Honor, I'd like to ask you to respect the Rules of Procedure and not enter the grounds for your resignation. The Rules of Procedure are very specific that everyone has the right to resign and there is a point, and it is yours to determine.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-09-0.u2210	Thank you. Please, after the presentation of Minister Stojiljkovic, it is indisputable that it is an resignation. I'm resigning. We're moving on to the agenda. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before setting out the agenda for the session, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we need to decide on proposals for the adoption of acts by emergency procedure and on proposals for amendments and additions to the proposed agenda of the session. First, a group of 83 MPs of the Serbian Radical Party's MPs suggested that an urgent procedure be taken to consider the draft law repealing the Law on Public Information, which submitted to the National Assembly on 29 September 2000. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I am putting to the vote a proposal by a group of 83 MPs of the Serbian Radical Party Group to consider, following an urgent procedure, the draft law on the abolition of the Law on Public Information. I conclude the vote: 200 votes against one, with no abstentions, did not vote 7, a total of 208 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Secondly, a group of 83 MPs of the Serbian Radical Party's MPs suggested that an urgent procedure be taken to consider the draft law establishing the validity of the Public Information Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 29 September 2000. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I am putting to the vote a proposal from the 83-nation group of MPs of the Serbian Radical Party Group to consider, after an urgent procedure, the proposal for a law establishing the validity of the Public Information Act. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I conclude the vote: 194 against no, abstention one, no vote 10, a total of 205 MPs are present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. Third, a group of 83 MPs from the Serbian Radical Party's MPs suggested that an urgent procedure be taken to consider the proposal for a law on Serbia's public business, which submitted to the National Assembly on 29 September 2000. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I am putting to the vote a proposal from the 83-nation group of MPs of the Serbian Radical Party Group to consider, after an urgent procedure, the proposal for a law on the Serbian Radio-Television Public Enterprise. I conclude the vote: 179 votes against 12 abstentions, not 10 votes, 203 MPs are present in total. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. Fourth, a group of 83 MPs of the Serbian Radical Party's MPs suggested that an urgent procedure be taken to consider the draft law establishing the Public Enterprise for the News and Broadcasting and Broadcasting Action of "Politika" AD, which submitted to the National Assembly on 29 September 2000. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I am putting to the vote a proposal by a group of 83 MPs of the Serbian Radical Party Group to consider, after an urgent procedure, the proposal for a law establishing a Public Enterprise for the news and broadcasting activity of the "Politika" AD. I conclude the vote: 157 against 40, with two abstentions, did not vote 9, a total of 208 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. Fifth, a group of 83 MPs from the Serbian Radical Party's MPs suggested that an urgent procedure be taken to consider the Privatisation Bill, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 29 September 2000. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I am putting to the vote a proposal by a group of 83 MPs of the Serbian Radical Party Group to consider, after an urgent procedure, the proposal for a law on privatisation. I conclude the vote: 159 against 43, with two abstentions, did not vote five, a total of 209 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The sixth, a group of 76 MPs of the Serbian Radical Party's MPs, suggested that an urgent procedure should be taken into account the draft law on the termination of the Solidarity Act for employees who temporarily lost their jobs due to wartime acts, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 29 September 2000. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I am putting to the vote the proposal of a group of 76 MPs of the Serbian Radical Party's MPs to consider, after an emergency procedure, the draft law on the termination of the Law on Solidarity for employees who temporarily lost their jobs due to wartime acts. I conclude the vote: 195, against one, with three abstentions, did not vote six, a total of 205 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. Seven, a group of 74 MPs of the Serbian Radical Party's MPs, suggested that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law amending the Law on Excises and Tax on Transport, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 7 October 2000. I ask the Members of Parliament to put their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am putting to the vote the proposal of a group of 74 MPs of the Serbian Radical Party Group to consider, after an urgent procedure, the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Excises and Tax on Transport. The vote was 166, against three, abstentions of 20, did not vote 16. A total of 205 MPs are present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. Eighth, a group of 75 MPs of the Serbian Radical Party's MPs, suggested that, following an emergency procedure, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 7 October 2000. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I would like to put to the vote a proposal by a group of 75 MPs of the Serbian Radical Party's MPs to consider, following an urgent procedure, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government. The vote was 189, against - no one, with three abstentions, voted 11. There are a total of 203 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The ninth, a group of 76 MPs of the Serbian Radical Party's MPs, suggested that the draft law on the selection of MPs, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 7 October 2000, should be considered. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I would like to put to the vote a proposal by a group of 76 MPs of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group to consider, after an urgent procedure, the bill on the election of MPs. The vote was 196, against - no one, with two abstentions, voted 10. A total of 208 MPs are present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The 10th, a group of 75 MPs of the Serbian Radical Party's MPs, suggested that an urgent process be followed by a proposal for a law on government and ministries, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 7 October 2000. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I would like to put to the vote a proposal by a group of 75 MPs of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group to consider, after an urgent procedure, the proposal for a law on government and ministries. The vote was 172, against - no one, with abstention 24, voted 10. A total of 206 MPs are present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. Eleventh, MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented and, after an emergency procedure, consider the proposal for a decision on early elections for MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and for the president of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 7 October 2000. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I would like to put on the vote by Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic to supplement the agenda and, by urgent procedure, consider the proposal for a decision on early elections for MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and for the president of the Republic of Serbia. 41 voted against 156, with one abstention, four MPs did not vote. A total of 202 MPs are present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Proposals to expand the agenda. 1. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that this session be complemented by the agenda item - Proposal for a law on the termination of the Law on Public Information, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Dr Dragan Vesenov and Marijan Rističević on 4 February 1999, with an amendment of 22 October 1999. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? He wants to. You have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-09-0.u2211	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as far as I can tell, you have just refused to vote on the agenda to find a decision on early elections for MPs. That, a little bit, disappointed me, and my reason for going out for this pay phone is this: to abolish the Public Information Act. Why did I submit this proposal to supplement the agenda? For the simple reason I can't let the hand that wrote that law now demand that that law be abolished. For this reason, I simply went out for a pay phone, i.e. a few days ago, I suggested that our proposal, which is two years old, the draft law on the abolition of the Public Information Act, be put on the agenda and discuss our proposal, not the Serbian Radical Party's proposal, which this criminal law, according to journalists, and extremely harmful, was written. The law has caused a lot of damage to independent journalism, journalists, people have paid huge penalties, etc. That damage can't be compensated. Whoever did this damage can't remove it by saying-- well, I didn't mean it seriously, I'm going to get that law back now. Radicals are prone to it, and I'm sick of having to throw up, just like Seselj Krajina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-09-0.u2212	Thank you. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am putting to the vote the motion by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević to supplement the agenda of this session - the draft law on the termination of the law on public information. The vote was 44, against 161, abstention -- no one, voted four. A total of 209 MPs are present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. 2. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by the agenda item - Proposal for a bill on the election of MPs and committees - submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Marijan Risticevic and Dr Dragan Vesenov on December 10th 1999, with an amendment of 21st of December 1999. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? He wants to. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-09-0.u2213	We submitted more than a year ago a proposal for a declaration on early elections and in the package we proposed a bill on selecting MPs and committees, a bill on political parties and a bill on the financing of political parties. If you had accepted those suggestions then, you wouldn't have lost the local election so smoothly. It's about CESID's models all three electoral laws and not to appear after each item of the agenda, or in all three additions to the agenda, I'll briefly say that it's the right electoral laws that guarantee that we don't replace one majority of the other, that as many political parties skip the censorship, that our governments are unstable, and the state is stable, to prevent political abuses, that we never have what we had until the other day. I am prepared, if the arrangements are reached, as I understand it, in this assembly, to withdraw these proposals in favour of the SRS proposal. If that deal is reached and that deal still stands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-09-0.u2214	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? He doesn't want to. ) I ask the MPs to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I am putting to the vote the motion of Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic to supplement the agenda of this session - the bill on the election of MPs and councilors. 38 voted against 166, no one abstentioned, five did not vote, a total of 209 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. 3. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that this session's agenda be complemented by the agenda item - Proposal for a law on the financing of political parties, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Marijan Risticevic and Dr Dragan Vesenov on 10 December 1999. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? He doesn't want to. ) I ask the Members of Parliament to set up a quorum to place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am putting on the vote by Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic to supplement the agenda of this session - the draft law on the financing of political parties. The vote was 42, against 160, no one abstention, five did not vote, a total of 207 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. 4. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by the agenda item - Proposal for a law on the abolition of electricity tax, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Dr Dragan Vesenov and Marijan Risticevic on 4 February 1999. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-09-0.u2215	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this may be the last chance for this House to do a good deed, which is to lift the electricity tax. And this bill was passed by MPs to the Vojvodina Coalition on 4 February 1999, almost two years ago, and this proposal was not on the agenda, although it is a business and constitutional obligation to find it within 60 days. The deadline can be exceeded in 30 days with the explanation of the president of the Assembly, but no more. For strange reasons, therefore, this draft law on the elimination of electricity tax was not found on the agenda. It is a taxi prescribed by the RTS Act, I think, amounting to 100 kilowatts a month on an electric number that citizens of the Republic of Serbia must pay each month. So we paid 100 kilowatts of electricity a month to get that TV to lie to us for years. We've all paid for that one liar in the house, and it's time to stop it, no matter what the RTS is right now. The bill is in line with some of the demands the miners made yesterday, they asked for the electricity tax to be abolished. That tax really doesn't make sense, because it includes some people who can't pay for physical reasons. My late grandfather is obliged to pay a fee on an electric counter. The man died, we didn't want to check out the count, and every month he has to pay 100 kilowatts of electricity on TV he can't watch, because the man's dead. Mr. Seselj...
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-09-0.u2216	Please don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-09-0.u2217	Your name and last name will soon be no political name, it will be a diagnosis of psychiatry. You've become the president of a cute little party. I heard you resigned, so I suggest, since you've already resigned in terms of strength, that your place may be inherited by Nikola Sugarski, your capacities are similar. I'm really sorry, Niko Sugar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-09-0.u2218	He has the word of Minister of Information Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-09-0.u2219	I, ladies and gentlemen, have tried to warn Mr Risticevic not to say nonsense about this speaker, that he has the arguments when he comes out for this pay phone, that possibly the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia are familiar with some true data, with some facts, with some arguments, but he has come out talking about a law that does not exist and not knowing at all what law he's talking about. The tax was introduced by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on RTS, and you would be here for an electric fee to introduce a Lex specialis. It's so stupid and so pointless that it's almost amazing, and at the same time you haven't read the material you got. You have not read the draft law of the SRS parliamentary group, and you should have read it, it's not such a large material, so you would find that there is no charge for RTS. There's a reason why that tax should no longer be paid. It is not a way of paying that fee, whether it goes through an electric number or in some other way, but rather a fee is not foreseen at all, but rather a financing of RTS from the Republic of Serbia's budget and from the economic effects of the television itself. You should've read that, Mr. Risticevic. One more thing, since I talked about it in the Federal Assembly, which is, as they say, this New Radio Television of Serbia, after they burned the old one, cut it out, so they wouldn't let it go alive, and I have to tell you that this time, even though we're unhappy with the election results, and we believe the quick sobering of our people and we're confident that we've now got a lot more than the largest political parties in that DOSsu coalition have ever had, even when they had the most. So much for political power and political strength.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-09-0.u2220	He has the word National MP Marijan Rističević, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-09-0.u2221	Mr. Wolfie, I know exactly what proposal I was talking about. I was talking about the bill to abolish the electricity bill, which the MPs of the Vojvodina Coalition filed nearly two years ago. The proposal did not see the light of day, so it was not on the agenda of this congregation. I said what tax we're talking about, we're talking about a tax prescribed by the Radio-Television Act. You've corrected me - by amending and supplementing the Radio-Television Act. As far as your material is concerned, I didn't want to read it on purpose. I don't allow it, I may be stupid, but I don't allow myself to be so stupid as to read the proposals of the law on lifting a fee on a counter or as you already called it, the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Radio Television, your new law. So, you want to cancel the tax you brought in yourself. Then who's stupid? So you admitted to being stupid. Here last time the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Seselj spoke - if there were some blister here, there would be no such small, low measure, which would measure the stupidity of Marijan Risticevic. I agree with that, I'm so little stupid that there's no such low measure. But when I listen to you, I don't think there's such a high measure to measure your stupidity. Mr. Seselj, if you'd stop at that blubber, you'd go into the ceiling.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-09-0.u2222	I ask the Members of Parliament to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I would like to put on the vote by Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic to supplement the agenda of this session - the draft law on the cancellation of the electricity tax. The vote was 39, against 159, one abstention, nine did not vote, a total of 208 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. 5. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that this session's agenda be complemented by the agenda -- a bill on political parties submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Marijan Risticevic and Dr Dragan Vesenov on 10 December 1999. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? He doesn't want to. ) I ask the Members of Parliament to set up a quorum to place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am putting on the vote by Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic to supplement the agenda of this session - the draft law on political parties. 41 voted against 162, one abstentioned, no six votes, a total of 210 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Six. A group of 44 MPs of the Serbian Renewal Movement suggested that the agenda should also be included as the third item of the agenda to consider a proposal for a no-confidence vote to the government of the Republic of Serbia. Does the proposing representative, MP Milan Mikovic, want a word? He wants to. ). He has the word Milan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-09-0.u2223	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled this assembly a motion to vote for mistrust with the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In the proposal you received, we presented the reasons why we believe that there are conditions to replace the current Government of the Republic of Serbia, which has for a long time harshly violated the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia by taking over from the National Assembly of Powers under Article 9(1). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and, in particular, adopts a normative act, to which it has no right to adopt and which do not serve the enforcement of the law, as the Constitution says, but to regulate issues that can only be regulated by acts of the National Assembly, contrary to the provisions of Article 90(2). The Constitution of Serbia. According to our point of view, the Government has not made any commitments under Article 7(1). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, resulting in severe violations of citizens' rights in various areas. The government's policy has caused enormous problems at universities, in education in general, health, culture, agriculture, financial spheres, taxation, crime prevention of each species, the abundance of unexposed murders. In such a situation, the Government faced the fact that not only did we submit a proposal for setting up an intervention board for lighting up a series of events with too many consequences, but others in this assembly did. In such a situation, we felt that there were all conditions to vote non-trust with the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Given the fact that the interior minister has resigned, we will point only to one more fact. In this country, political files were established for a large number of young people, who tried best to make this country a democratic country. In such a situation, we believe that such a proposal has been established. However, during today’s day, we are familiar with the fact that the government is ready to resign within two or three days and enable the formation of a new government. For these reasons, and only for these reasons right now we are withdrawing our proposal to vote for mistrust with the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-09-0.u2224	He has the word of Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-09-0.u2225	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the government of the Republic of Serbia was ready to resign immediately. Today, parliamentary and non-parliamentary opposition parties have asked us not to resign yet, as the negotiation process has begun. The first result of the negotiation process is to call an early election. It was said for December 19th, and now we've been checking the calendar, most likely it means December 17th, because Sunday is December 17th. It was agreed to go to an emergency presidential election. This was agreed by all political parties, and when we later went to Milan Milutinovic, DOS gave up, Qindzic, Micunović, Batic, Covic, Vesenov, who were. There was a witness and Mr. Mikovic, Vuk Draskovic was. This is an incorrect procedure, which doesn't surprise me, and against which I have nothing. But the Serbian government has been acting by law and by the Constitution. You can tell how successful or unsuccessful she was. She was successful in many things, and in many things she was late. However, the government would not resign, nor offer to resign, if the coup hadn't occurred. For ten days, the government has been unable to rule, and we have offered opposition parties, we will not legalise, police have been kidnapped, almost completely, many factories, infrastructure facilities, institutions, system institutions, all against the constitution and against the law. We don't want to give it legal, but we offered a compromise. It is clear what the mood of the people was in these elections, the people's will is recognised on the basis of the election of the President of the Republic, however, the coup continues today. We won't participate, we don't have the police, we can't fight back, but that's why no one can force us to act against our conscience. The government is ready to resign immediately, but the government thinks the electoral law should be passed first, and a whole set of other laws, and today the first seven of this agenda has been agreed, although this agenda is not exactly accurate, I think that some points should change the order. So, between four key political factors, the Serbian Radical Party, the SPS, the SPS and the Democratic Opposition of Serbia, an agreement has been reached to pass seven laws. The other four laws will be held for the next days, and the government's issue will be precise tomorrow. A meeting of the leaders of all four political groups has been scheduled to try to find agreement -- whether the government will reconstruct, which parties will enter the government, which it does not. And of course, you and the whole public, as far as the Serbian Radical Party is concerned, not at all costs. If there is a chance that, with the goodwill of all the political entities involved, things will return to constitutional and legal conditions, then this government makes sense. If there's no chance of getting all that back into constitutional and legal conditions, then we'll just split the seeds, so if it's a coup, let it be a coup to the end, if it's a revolution, then let it be a revolution to the end, and the revolution is always an unconstitutional and illegal state. Remember, gentlemen, especially you who have always been against the revolution and boasted that you are a counter-revolution. It's an honor to be a counter-revolutionary.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-09-0.u2226	There is a word from MP Dragan Veselinov, head of the coalition's parliamentary club for Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-09-0.u2227	It is not here, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, or any coup, or coup, as Mr. Vojislav Seselj, Vice-President of the Government, who no longer exists, but this is about our country in the past fourteen days, by the will of the people, the people took over, and that is what this is about. In the elections that were most difficult in our history, in the elections that the Democratic opposition of Serbia under your laws, under your circumstances, electoral laws, without media support, with uninterrupted threats, with uninterrupted convictions, with police arrests and persecutions, we have come out under the most difficult circumstances of elections and people's will, the Democratic opposition of Serbia has won. It's not a coup, it's a victory, it's a victory of a new spirit, it's a victory that leads us to a safe future. And secondly, we haven't given up the presidential election, you're misreading our conversations today. We agreed to call early elections for the Republic Assembly on December 17th, and we will discuss the presidential elections tomorrow. So, we'll talk about it. No one has given up calling the presidential election, but we will discuss it. So you don't understand the meaning of our speech today. If you think the Democratic opposition of Serbia is going to give up the presidential election and the concrete change of government, so you're wrong, so there's no reason to stop. Let's go all the way. You're ex, so this is the spirit, so you're the spirits, so you're the advents of the past, you're the soap opera. We don't stop, the last time the people look at you here, in nine and a half weeks, they'll be watching here just smiles and the greatest news, a wonderful day coming.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-09-0.u2228	There is a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-09-0.u2229	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is a disgrace from a university professor to deceive those he speaks to. It is clear that the situation in which the Republic of Serbia is located and the relationship with the legally elected authorities of the Republic of Serbia can be called a coup. This is not about winning federal parliamentary elections and federal presidential elections. The will of the people was won by Vojislav Kostunica. You would never have proved the will of the people if it hadn't been for the Serbian Radical Party. We're glad we had the right control and that we could help whoever the people wanted win this election. But everything that happened from Thursday to today, and what continues to be passed on to Serbia, which was not at all the subject of the election, must be called a coup. It's a part of you who organizes all of this. It is not the people's will to enter colleges today, to take over the places the Government of the Republic of Serbia decides on. You're breaking all the existing laws today, this day, this hour, and the moment you talked to us about how we'd settle the crisis peacefully in Serbia, solve it by making an appointment on December 17th, you've been nagging and coercing to continue the coup. You continue to do so, and why would the Serbian government participate in this? Why would the Serbian Radical Party participate in this? The ladies here exist as a government, as a ruling party, and that at that time you're doing the coup, that it turns out that the Serbian government is in agreement with the coup, that it turns out that the Serbian government is giving you legitimacy by being, no, I think it's completely pointless and I think that when we adopt this set of laws today, we no longer have any reason to talk to you, except about the elections, and again on the basis of the law that we're passing today. And that we're talking to you, and you're breaking locks at that time, harassing physical people, replacing people, which you can't replace, illegally, non-institutionally, with guns, with long weapons, and at the same time calling yourself the Democratic Opposition of Serbia, so that's incomprehensible. Have any of you ever been harassed, persecuted, for these two and a half years, have any of you ever seen a gun in front of you by any of these people, you call dictators, undemocracy, and what do you call them all? You've never experienced it. You dragged a bulldozer into Belgrade to tear down the Federal Assembly building, three people died, none of you apologized for those people who died, but you say -- not much. Today you said - the people took over. In what country does the people take over? How does the people take over? The elections -- individual and political parties participated in the elections. Even the SPS and the JUL had to admit defeat in these elections, as they always admit, and you made them do it. You made them do it. But that day was supposed to stop the chaos. The day that Vojislav Kostunica at least took an oath and accepted by everyone, you should have stopped that chaos, Mr. Vesenov. Maybe after these choices, we won't be in this assembly. Maybe that'll be the people's will. But this chaos in Serbia is not a people's will, Mr. Vesenov. This chaos in Serbia is an American will. You do the American will, Mr. Veselinov. People, if you had the time, if you had the television now, on which someone else could show up, you could hear some different truth, even if you thought about it a little bit. But we radicals have such fate, when the SPS holds state television, we are not on state television, when the Democratic Opposition of Serbia holds state television, we are not on state television. Now you can call yourself Democrats just as much as the SPS did. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-09-0.u2230	He has the word Zoran Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-09-0.u2231	I think that today's constructive talks were about overcoming this situation, and it's not a word of whether all the political parties agreed on the election for the President of the Republic, but we agreed to continue these talks tomorrow at 10.00 p.m. Therefore, the Socialist Party did not say whether or not it agrees, but rather we are talking about Serbia's political rationality and what is most rational for Serbia and the citizens of Serbia. The most important thing right now is for the Socialist Party of Serbia to be at peace in Serbia and not to be bloodbathed. The SPS is not the most important government, but the peace and security of citizens. What is happening these days with violence is what will certainly condemn the people. When it comes to a vote three weeks ago, the SPS is pleased with the number of votes won. She is not pleased that the DOS has won more, but she is pleased with how many Serbian citizens have indicated the SPS' trust. Based on that and by the number of votes we determine our position. But also, this is about republican organs, this is about the fact that you can't get guns into customs and put a gun on people's forehead and that you're looking for a takeover and an exorcism. Everyone will get out of that function and out of those places that the competent authorities will determine and say he's not here. When it comes to federal institutions, of course, where the federal government or the Yugoslav Assembly is responsible, when it comes to republican institutions, where the Government of the Republic of Serbia is responsible. Now it's not happening, it's violently taking over functions. We care about giving every contribution we need, including the elections, to stabilise the situation in Serbia, to rule over peace in Serbia and to stop lawlessness.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-09-0.u2232	He has the word Dr. Vojislav Seselj, Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-09-0.u2233	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, something happened again that shouldn't have happened. People's will has been disputed in the presidential elections and parliamentary elections, but we haven't even been able to discuss it. The revolution of the people was justified and because of this revolt of the people and the violation of the law in prison should be members of the Federal Election Commission who are guilty and members of the Federal Constitutional Court who are guilty and under great pressure from the people. [[Applause]] The Serbian Radical Party recognised the people's will in the presidential elections. Vojislav Kostunica took office as president of the SR of Yugoslavia and took an oath. To that point, you can talk about justifiable revolt. What happens after that, it's pure robbery. We, gentlemen, have been repeated by the October Revolution, as Lenin robbed banks, and now some others are robbing banks, and apparently they've taken all the police into their own hands. It couldn't be done one night, or one week, or one month, taking the police under control must have lasted at least a year to two days. We know who could have taken control of the police. The political parties certainly couldn't. Someone else did that big job. It's tragic that NATO has achieved a pact, relatively peaceful, that the bombing could not. But now, what's there? There is a lot of guilt from leftist parties that the elections ended this way and that the electoral procedure was lacking and irregular, that the people were so irritated, that they voted only against, whatever the consequences. But now comes sobering. How can I take up with the bank's guns, public enterprises, social enterprises? Do you know who took over the federal customs administration? A certain Zabunovic, the main merchant of whiskey and cigarettes. And it looks like it's in agreement with Curtis. They then destroyed documents that could prove their work in importing the most profitable excise goods. Whoever else is destroying the paperwork, that's the real question. We don't want any part of it. If the police will return under government control, strict government control, from the police to remove all those who do not carry out their duties, this government makes sense, but to be in a government that will act as government and allow the kidnapping of state institutions, institutions, businesses, I will not, at the expense of life. But like every revolution and this one will start eating its children, it's obvious. For as long as there are unlimited quantities of prey, they are easily distributed; and when all the spoils are distributed into the first wave, then shall the spoiler of one another begin, who shall be more, who shall be less. So, when it comes out of legal condition, then there's a stronger law, then there's road robbery. This is where the question arises whether or not we will agree to road robbery. We can't agree. No party in parliament should agree. We shouldn't have a non-parliamentary client. These were federal and local elections. At the local level, as far as I know, there was nowhere to interfere with the takeover of power, but somewhere, the power to storm has been taken over, as in Belgrade. We were scheduled to go to City Hall 16 and they took over 10 days earlier, and they wouldn't even call me. I'm the only one from the Serbian Radical Party, there's 105 DOSs, they shouldn't have called me on that constitution. I'd come, like on my wings, I can assure you. They didn't want to, they shouldn't have. The federal government has not been established. Who knows who's gonna make it, maybe left-wing parties, maybe DOS with SNP, it's all in play. But federal institutions cannot be taken over until the federal government is established. And they take customs, they take the National Bank. What else did they have in mind to take? Everything, and the government's gone. What's that? Is it legal and constitutional, can we justify that? There's no such revolt that can justify the coup. Revolt can be an excuse for demonstrations, for persistent demonstrations, for determined demonstrations, but the revolt can't be an excuse for the coup, and the coup has already happened. Now the DOS would like to find cover for that coup, and we're not going to give him cover. I offered at this meeting today in front of the Serbian Radical Party to enter the government, that both the radicals and the SPS and the SPS should separate a number of ministerial chairs, that the DOS should enter the government. Where do they go in? We said where you'd taken her. To take the energy. They've taken over Kolubara, and the batteries in the artificial lakes are empty. Once they've taken over Kolubara, let them take responsibility for all the energy. They've taken over a lot of hospitals. I said today, come on, be your Minister of Health. And the supplies of the drugs took both Hemofarm and everything. (Glass from the O.R.: What's Bojic doing? Ask Boyic, what will he do, not me now. I know what I'm gonna do. They won't even take the Ministry of Health. I offered DOS to take over the Ministry of Education. They've taken over primary schools, high school, kidnapped colleges, so let's make them their minister of education. There's a chance they can legalize the situation, fix the situation. They won't take it either. They won't take it either. They're bragging... Well, that's what we're doing right now, and we're doing radicals, and we're talking about who's gonna take it from us. We'd like ours to be the minister of police, SPO of theirs, and we'd be looking for a solution here somewhere. However, they are praised for having finished pension insurance solutions. Today I said, "Let the DOS be the Republic Minister for Pension and Social Security, for work, as it is already called." He won't do that either. They say their minister of police, and everything else doesn't matter. Well, it can't be that way. It may be their police minister, but in a revolutionary government, in command of the revolution. I don't believe it can go through this House. As for the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, they can take us all to the shooting, but our consent won't win for the coup. And then, frankly, they say, or they'll all go back to normal, constitutional and legal conditions, so if we had regular elections, we've proposed the best possible electoral law, we're ready to control the election with all the parties to carry out, but without a choice, that someone grabs power -- they can't. He can't do it with our consent. Let's go with the guns. There's already been a hijacking of power here, so there's been a big tragedy. There's nothing good behind this coup. I told the DOS gentlemen, here's because you're fantasizing about the billions you promised, take over these ministries that are the hardest, and invest those billions. If you are successful for these two months, the Ministry of Energy and the Ministry of Pensions, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Education, and the people will vote 100% for you in the Republic elections. Then who are we next to you successful? But they know they're lying about getting the money and that's why we have to win the chase. They can kill us for the chase, but they can't wash our brains out.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-09-0.u2234	Please, since MP Milan Mikovic has withdrawn this law, he is not on the agenda. I'm sorry, it's not the law. It's the government's mistrust. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-09-0.u2235	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is said here that guns and rifles fall into the university. That's not true. To remind you -- the day ahead of this event, since Thursday, the Serbian government has appointed dean and rectors to include them -- She's right, I know that, ma'am, I know very well - to include them in the fight against teachers and students. [[loud from the O.R. Can't be heard]] Deans and reactors... You've been banging for years... Deans and rectors are resigning themselves. Did you hear what the Rector of the University of Nis wrote in his resignation today? "I am resigning and requesting the resignation of SPS President Slobodan Milosevic and SPS Secretary-General Gorica Gajevic. "It was done by your Vice-President of the City Committee in Nis, Professor Branimir Djordjevic, who is known as the man who chooses the winning side in critical moments. So these are your personnel. So, no hiducia... Please... I have nerves.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-09-0.u2236	Let the MP speak. Please, please, please, please, please,
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-09-0.u2237	Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-09-0.u2238	Please, Mr. Vakic, don't leave the scene. You're looking for a word, so get out.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-09-0.u2239	Let me get this straight. There's no talking about hiducia, Partisanism at universities. The deans and the rectors are resigning themselves... I've resumed, please, that you don't use such untruths.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-09-0.u2240	He has the word of Minister of Information Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-09-0.u2241	I'm an MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-09-0.u2242	People's ambassador.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-09-0.u2243	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have calculated that SPO MPs are not DOS MPs, but they seem to have begun at all costs to join the DOS in their political impotence. I've got a few things to point out, since this was about breaking the Constitution and breaking the law, which wasn't spoken. They're formed in this country, everyone heard, some kind of crisis headquarters that decides everything. They decide people's lives. Something similar to the People's Liberation Committees in World War II. Remember, it was first in Foca in 1942, and then it continued until 1945, and then the NOF was created. You know that, Mr. Tomic. Correct me if I'm wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-09-0.u2244	I was a kid back then.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-09-0.u2245	I, Mr. Tomic, thought I'd never see it. I was born 25 years after 1945. I've read a lot about 1945, about everything that's been going on, and about 1948, about Goal Island and everything. I thought that would never happen to me. And that's what happened here when they said democracy won. And such a democracy won, that they started threatening on television. Last night, you were able to watch a certain Dinkic who threatens with a single link to everyone who doesn't think like him, who wants all MPs who don't think so, and you heard that we're having a bit of fun in all this trouble and misfortune for our people, says they're guarding the pay traffic now, and I don't know what. They say - one came to him and I reported "I got permission from Dragoljub Micunovic to transfer 150,000 dinars to a company". And he called Dragoljub Micunovic to see if he had given him permission. Believe it or not, in this country, Dragoljub Micunovic and the crisis headquarters decide whether anyone can transfer 150,000 dinars. That's where we came from. What constitution does that say? What laws does that say? I ask Manojl Vukotic, who took the Evening News, brought this kind of seal to beat, who put you in that place? Shut up, they don't know what to say. They say as Veselinov - brought the people. No, that's what we saw in the Partizan films of Veljko Bulajic, and we figured that story was over. You can put all the pressure you want. You can bring these from the OTPOR, and those from DOS and whoever you want to bring ahead, and you have five, ten, and fifty-hundredths of thousands of people, to threaten us with guns, murders, bulldozers and bangers, whatever you want, you won't convince us that you're right. You won't convince us, and we will fight, as we fought left-wings, especially against JUL, as we were, I haven't had that luck, but the rest of the SRS leaders, in prisons, and I see that under NATO's rule, the pact doesn't die either. But don't worry, I'm not afraid at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-09-0.u2246	Thank you. Please, we're going to the seventh point. Seven. The Serbian Renewal Movement parliamentary group has proposed that the agenda of this session be complemented by an urgent procedure to discuss the draft law repealing the University Law. Does the proposing representative, MP Milan Mikovic, want a word? No, I don't. ) I ask the MPs to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I would like to put to the vote the proposal of the Serbian Renewal Group to supplement the agenda and to consider the draft law repealing the University Law after an urgent procedure. The vote was 43, against 148, with three abstentions, not 12 votes, a total of 206 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. 8. The Serbian Renewal Movement parliamentary group has proposed that the agenda of this session be completed and, after an urgent procedure, consider - a bill establishing the validity of the University Law. Does National MP Milan Mikovic want a word? He wants to. ) He has the word Milan Mikovic, head of the Serbian Renewal Movement Group.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-09-0.u2247	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, we have put these two bill proposals before you in a desire to resolve issues related to the university, to students, to scientific research at colleges, to the material position of the university, to drain an enormous number of professional staff from college. We were fully convinced that this is a matter in which we all have the same interest, that this issue should be regulated in a way that provides....
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-09-0.u2248	Please allow Mr. Mikovic to speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-09-0.u2249	I think the existing university law is based on ideological grounds and that it is unacceptable for the university. The university's autonomy has been completely abolished. The application of the provisions of this law has resulted in disastrous consequences both for education and for everything else that has been done in colleges. It is not a coincidence that this assembly is thus dealing with young people, who should represent the future of this country and who should really drag this country forward, into Europe and the world. You will explain to them why you believe that the University Law, which no longer respects both those who have received both the dean's and the rector's posts, should continue to remain with all the consequences that exist. You will explain to them why you believe that the highest body in this Republic is taking such a stand and such a relationship with the young generation, and they, believe me, are capable of choosing for their rights. Cheers.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-09-0.u2250	Thank you. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I would like to put to the vote the proposal of the Serbian Renewal Group to supplement the agenda and, by urgent procedure, consider - a bill establishing the validity of the University Law. The vote was 40, against 138, abstention three, did not vote 14. A total of 195 MPs are present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Nine. A group of 49 MPs of the Socialist Party of Serbia's MPs and the Yugoslav left parliamentary group suggested that the agenda be complemented and that the first item of the session agenda be - the formation of the polling committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in order to determine the facts related to the murder of Radovan Stojcic and the murder of Zoran Todorovic. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? He doesn't want to. ) I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am putting to the vote the proposal of a group of 49 MPs of the Socialist Party of Serbia and the Yugoslav Left Parliamentary Group, to supplement the agenda and to be the 1st item of the session agenda - the formation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia poll committee to determine the facts related to the murder of Radovan Stojčić and the murder of Zoran Todorovic. The vote was 179 against one, abstention one, did not vote 12. A total of 193 MPs are present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Ten. A group of 45 MPs of the Serbian Renewal Movement Group suggested that the agenda be complemented and that the first item of the session agenda be - the formation of the polling committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in order to determine the facts relating to the disappearance of Ivan Stambolic. Does National MP Milan Mikovic want a word? He wants to. ) He has the word Milan Mikovic, head of the Serbian Renewal Movement Parliament Club.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-09-0.u2251	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, this is one of the current issues, not only and I hope it's not the hardest, but in this country, if the man who was at her head disappears, then we all have to worry, to what extent we're all safe and safe if they, the small number of people who were at the head of this country, disappear without a trace. Ivan Stambolic disappeared without a trace. He wasn't our party colleague, he was never on our side, but we're not here just because of people who are on our side. We're here to give all people, all families the same opportunity to live normally, to be safe and not have to worry about them. Only this fact was finally enough for the interior minister to resign. That's how it happens all over the world. And for these reasons, we have accepted that this issue is cleared up, not forgetting that there are dozens and dozens of people who have died, who have lost both their lives and for which this government has not given a single report, nor has it pointed out in which direction to look for traces of all this. Now, in such a situation, all the objections that can be put to others that they have missed something are far from being taken by the state government and not considered responsible for what it does. There's one more thing I'd like to point out. For now, we have one item on the agenda, which is the issue of forming a National Assembly survey board to determine the facts related to the deaths of four SPO officials a year ago. Now we have just adopted a proposal to adopt, to form a more polling committee. We suggest that this committee be formed too, but allow me, the committees can't solve all these issues, but the committees can determine that some do not perform their duties, do not carry out their duties, do not feel that people, their rights and their freedoms should be defended. In a particular situation, we'll face another fact. With the fact that we have an opportunity to lose our congregation within two, three days or a week. In such a situation, if disbanding the Assembly were to occur, I think that in all these cases where we have decided to set up committees, we should really empower committees to finish their affairs and if the reports are unable to submit in this assembly, to submit them to the next Assembly that will certainly be formed either after the election or after all of this. I think that's the only way, and with the full co-operation of the polling committee with the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Justice, we can at least do this much for all those who have been killed or who are not there.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-09-0.u2252	Thank you. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am putting to the vote the proposal of a group of 45 National MPs of the Serbian Movement Group to update the agenda of the session and to be the first item of the session agenda - the formation of the polling committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to determine the facts relating to the disappearance of Ivan Stambolic. The 184 vote against no one, abstentioned, was voted by 14 MPs, a total of 198 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Since it's 17.00 hours, I suggest we proceed with the agenda, do you agree? Yeah. ) Is there any suggestion of when to work? No, I don't. ) The Serbian Renewal Movement parliamentary group has suggested that the agenda of this session be complemented by a point-seat issue. Does the proposing representative, MP Milan Mikovic, want a word? No, I don't. I ask the Members of Parliament to put their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Serbian Movement Group of MPs to supplement the agenda to the point of parliamentary issues. In 186, one against, abstaining no one, was voted by eight MPs, a total of 195 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Proposal for a change in the order of certain items of the agenda. A group of 44 MPs of the SPS MPs suggested that the first item of the agenda of this session be - a proposal for the establishment of a polling committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to determine the facts related to the deaths of four senior SPI officials, on 3 October 1999, which submitted to the National Assembly on 5 October 2000. I ask the Members of Parliament to put their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am putting to the vote the proposal of a group of 44 MPs of the SPS Group to consider the proposal for the establishment of a polling committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to determine the facts related to the deaths of four senior SPO officials on 3 October 1999 as the first item of the agenda of this session. You said there was another point. Here you go. Stevo Dragisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-09-0.u2253	Since we have accepted the proposal to set up a polling committee to determine the facts related to the deaths of four SPI officials as the first point, I suggest the next order of items in the agenda. To consider, second, the Proposal for a Law on the Selection of National MPs as a third point, the Proposal for a Law repealing the Law on Public Information, as the fourth point of the Proposal for a Law establishing the validity of the Law on Public Information, as the fifth point of the Bill on JP RTS. The sixth point to be the draft law amending the Act on Excises and Tax on Transport. The seventh point of the draft law on the termination of the Solidarity Act for employees who temporarily lost their jobs due to war acts. As the eighth point to consider the SPS-JUL Group's proposal to form a survey committee to determine facts related to the murder of Radovan Stojcic and the murder of Zoran Todorovic. Then, to consider as the ninth point, the SPS Parliamentary Group's proposal to set up a survey committee to determine the facts relating to the disappearance of Ivan Stambolic. To consider, as the tenth point, the draft law establishing the JP for the press and broadcasting activity of the "Politika" AD. It's like the 11th point of the Privatisation Act. As the 12th point, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government. And, as the 13th point, the draft law on the government and the ministries of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-09-0.u2254	Just this order to change that there's a privatisation law first, then the other one.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-09-0.u2255	As the 10th point of the Privatisation Act, as the 11th point of the Law on the establishment of a public enterprise for a news-issued and broadcasting activity "Politika" AD.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-09-0.u2256	Thank you. You've heard suggestions to change the order of the agenda. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I put to the vote Steve Dragisic's proposal on the order of points, as he put it. 186 MPs voted, no one against, three were abstentions, 10 did not vote, a total of 199 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal by majority vote. Since we have come to the conclusion of all the amendments and additions to the proposed agenda, I would like the Members of Parliament to make a statement on the agenda of the session in general. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I'm putting a vote on the draft agenda of the session in general. For 182, no one is against, two are abstentions, 10 have not voted, a total of 194 MPs are present in the hall. I find that the National Assembly has, in most words, established the agenda of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2000 as a whole. I ask the National Assembly's service to prepare a consolidated text on the agenda of the session and hand it over to the MPs. ♪ No, no, no, no ♪ ♪ No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Proposal for the establishment of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia Survey Committee to determine the facts relating to the deaths of four high-ranking officials of the Serbian Renewal Movement on 3 October 1999, which was submitted by a group of 44 MPs of the Serbian Renewal Movement Group, 2. Proposal for a bill on the election of Members of the People's Parliament, which was submitted by a group of 76 MPs of the Serbian Radical Party Group, 3. Proposal for a law repealing the Law on Public Information, which was submitted by groups of 83 MPs of the Serbian Radical Party's Parliamentary Group, 4. Proposal for a law establishing the validity of the Public Information Act, which was submitted by a group of 83 MPs of the Serbian Radical Party's Parliamentary Group, 5. Proposal for a Law on the Public Enterprise of the Serbian Radio Television, which was submitted by a group of 83 MPs of the Serbian Radical Party's Parliament Group, 6. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Excises and Tax on Transport, which was submitted by a group of 74 MPs of the Serbian Radical Party's Parliamentary Group, 7. Proposal for a law on the termination of the Solidarity Act for employees who temporarily lost their jobs due to acts of war, which was submitted by a group of 76 MPs of the Serbian Radical Party's MPs, 8. The formation of a survey committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to determine the facts related to the murder of Radovan Stojcic and the murder of Zoran Todorovic, who was submitted by a group of 49 MPs of the Socialist Party of Serbia's Socialist Party and the Yugoslav Left Group of MPs, 9. The formation of a polling committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to determine the facts relating to the disappearance of Ivan Stambolic, who submitted a group of 45 MPs to the Serbian Movement of Reconstruction, 10. Proposal for a law on privatisation, submitted by a group of 83 MPs of the Serbian Radical Party's MPs, 11. Proposal for a Law establishing a Public Enterprise for the News publishing and broadcasting activity of "Politika" A.D., which was submitted by a group of 83 MPs of the Serbian Radical Party's Parliamentary Group, 12. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government, which was submitted by a group of 75 MPs of the Serbian Radical Party's Parliamentary Group, 13. Proposal for a law on government and ministries, which was submitted by a group of 75 MPs of the Serbian Radical Party Group, 14. MPs' questions. I'm going to work on a set agenda. I move to the 1st item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL FOR THE FUNCTIONAL COMMITTEE OF THE NATIONAL COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA FOR THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE REFERENCE OF THE FUNCTIONAL FUNCTIONERS OF THE SERB 3. October 1999. YOU have received this proposal, which was submitted by a group of 44 MPs of the Serbian Renewal Movement Group. I'm opening a unique search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? No, I don't. Do any of the MPs want a word? There's a word from MP Alexander Chotric.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-09-0.u2257	Mr. President, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have just been informed by former Interior Minister Vlajko Stojljkovic that he is resigning to this post because his current post is incompatible with his election as federal MP. But I have to say, it's a transparent attempt to avoid discussing his responsibility to perform his duties in a high position so far. Police Minister Vlajko Stojljkovic has indeed done a lot that is contrary to the law, the Constitution of this country. One of the most recent examples of this is the police's inability to announce in more than a year the facts relating to the crime in Ibarska masteral, when four members of the party were killed in the assassination of SPS President Vuk Draskovic. Mr. Vlajko Stojiljkovic was obliged to inform the public during that time, families who were killed by facts, which are learned in every legally arranged state in just a few hours. Mr Stojiljkovic, I ask you to show some patience. We of the SPO have waited more than a year patiently to announce the facts relating to this monstrous crime, when four young lives were lost in the crime, which was ready against the president of the main opposition party, Mr Draskovic. Therefore, you have not announced what was to be said and what is known in every legal state in just a few hours. And that is: who owns the truck - the killer, filled with sand and explosives, which focused on the car where Mr Draskovic was; who owns the license plate of that truck - the killer; why there is no registration number in the official computer record of the MUP. Because the police and the judicial authorities of the country were not doing their job, the SPO was forced to form a legal-expert team, which unequivocally established a certain involvement of members of the State Security Service in this week. It was also due to announce why the SPO's criminal charges against the head of Serbia's State Security Service, Mr Radet Markovic, and against the head of Belgrade's National Security Service, Mr Milan Radonjic. Because it was not done in time, the same people, the same services organised a new assassination on 15.06 this year on the president of the SPO, Mr. Vuk Draskovic. That's when Mr. Draskovic really survived with God's providence, even though two bullets hit him in the head. Montenegrin police, the Montenegrin judiciary reacted quickly, determined who were the direct perpetrators and brought the assassins, but at the same time the Supreme Court of Podgorica issued an arrest warrant for people who were also involved in the assassination, who were found to have been sent from Belgrade. Therefore, the Supreme Court of Podgorica has issued a warrant for Dusan Spasojevic and Milet Lukovic, who has already been full of three months of the Serbian Republic's MUP refuses to deliver to Montenegro's judiciary. These people are still under the protection of Serbia's MUP, although, as we heard, it is the ministry in total destruction. According to our information, these people are still preparing at some of the state security facilities in their shooting sites to finish their bloody work, which they failed, fortunately, to do 15.06 this year. The main goal was to physically liquidate the president of the main opposition party and thus reduce the chances of the elections as the largest democratic opposition party. Unfortunately, in part, you did it, but don't think that you destroyed the SPO. The SPO is a party that will show its true full strength now that our president, Mr. Vuk Draskovic, has returned to Serbia, when in the upcoming elections power, such as other party leaders, will participate in the campaign, to lead the SPO, which will again be not only the main opposition party, but will be the largest party in Serbia. I must warn the former police minister and ask him to form these facts as soon as possible, to cooperate with the Serbian Parliament's Survey Committee, because the very fact that the Assembly, as the highest legislative body in Serbia, forms the Survey Committee and thus assumes the responsibility of the MUP, shows that the police did not do their job and that it is necessary to involve the National Representatives in the investigation, and, if Mr Vlajko Stojiljkovic is not adept, if he does not cooperate with the determination of these facts, it is certain that he will also be held guilty because the Ministry, whose head he was at, did not do his job, which hid the facts and prevented him from finding murderers who are guilty at the Topcider Cemetery in Belgrade, find the graves of four young men.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-09-0.u2258	Thank you. Do any of the Members of the People want a word? He has the word National MP Bojana Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-09-0.u2259	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I would like first of all to welcome the new Yugoslavia - a good day to the new Yugoslavia (species from the hall: good evening). There's something wrong with you. It's still daytime. Today, I guess there is someone who can hear the truth about the death of Veselin Boskovic, Zvonko Osmajlic, Dragan Vusurovic and Vuk Rakočević. On October 3rd last year, in the village of Friday near Lazarec, the assassination of SPO President Vuk Draskovic was attempted. In an accident, two cars killed everyone except the president of the SPO. If it weren't for a car accident, but for the attempted murder of Vuk Draskovic, many evidence suggests. The evidence was submitted to the competent investigative authorities, but the investigation was stopped. No one's even found out who owns the truck's license plate, or who owns the four-way murder plate. Someone wanted Vuk Draskovic to disappear from Serbia's political scene ahead of the elections, and this is also suggested by a new attempted murder of SPI president on June 15th at his apartment in Budva. Two terrorists, Dusan Spasojevic and Mile Lukovic, were not arrested and handed over to the Greater Court in Podgorica, although a warrant was issued after them. The SPO has no right to forget the killing of four officials, nor the attempted assassination of Vuk Draskovic. The SPO therefore seeks the establishment of the Committee of Auditors to determine the facts related to the deaths of four senior SPO officials on 3 October 1999. The SPO also wants the truth in all other political killings, the truth about the kidnapping of Ivan Stambolic, the truth about all political arrests and the truth about beating and persecuting the non-performing regime of Slobodan Milosevic, the truth about the arrests and arrests of the activists "Resist", opposition parties, NGOs, journalists and all other Serbian citizens. We expect the media not to hear now about the assassination attempts by SPS President Vuk Draskovic on the arrest of members of his security, nor on the persecution and loss of many members of the SPS, who have built themselves into the foundations of democracy in Serbia for the past 10 years. If this is a new Serbia, if they have seen RTS, Tanjug, Radio Belgrade, Politics, Fight and other media, if there is no longer one brain in Serbia, if we have democratic authority, we should now be able to learn the truth about the deaths of four SPO officials. We believe no one wants to stop the investigation now. In the name of democracy, on behalf of the new Yugoslavia, on behalf of the families of the dead, the SPO has and is seeking the right to the truth. We're also looking for the responsibility of the authorities for the cover-up of criminals. We're looking for justice and trial for murderers and crime organizers. The dictatorial regime of Slobodan Milosevic is over. It is not over for the murderers Veselin Boskovic, Zvonko Osmajlic, Vuk Rakočević and Dragan Vusurovic. We are waiting for the day when this assembly and the Serbian judiciary will say - it is almost a lie, deception and unexposed murder. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-09-0.u2260	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? He's not answering. If no one answers the word, I'll conclude a unique search. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units (we have the quorum). I am putting to the vote the proposal for the establishment of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia Survey Committee to determine the facts related to the death of four high-ranking officials of the Serbian Renewal Movement on 3 October 1999. 172 MPs voted in favour, against no one, abstentioned, 12 MPs voted. I find that the National Assembly adopted a proposal for the establishment of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia Survey Committee to determine the facts related to the deaths of four high-ranking officials of the Serbian Renewal Movement on 3 October 1999. As the second item of the agenda, we had a proposal for a conclusion on the declaration of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in connection with the election for the president of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, which was proposed by the Serbian Renewal Movement. Does the Serbian Renewal Movement remain at this point in the agenda? (Employee Mikovic, from the post: If you inform the Assembly of your meeting with the President. ). I've already informed you. (Employee Mikovic, from the post: conveyed everything we proposed in the declaration? ). Yes, it is. Thank you. We move to item 2 of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on the Election of People's MEPs You received a bill, which was submitted by a group of 76 MPs of the Serbian Radical Party Group. I'm opening a principled search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? There is a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-09-0.u2261	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in 1992, the National Assembly passed a Law on the selection of MPs, which the Serbian Radical Party Group tried to change on two occasions, first in 1994, and then in 1997, but for this we did not have the consent of most MPs in the National Assembly and this time we managed to ensure that in the consultations before this session we had agreed most MPs to vote this law. I would just like to brief you on the changes made in relation to the law that has so far been in force and on which we have also been elected MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The main change is contained in Article 4 which says MPs are elected in the Republic of Serbia as one electoral unit. Proposers of the law wanted to implement a proportionate electoral principle as a whole, so that the territory of the Republic of Serbia would be one electoral unit, which would elect 250 MPs. This, then, meant amendments to the removal of election commissions that were election committees, so that only the Republic Election Commission remained as an election authority for MPs. The next amendment in Article 12, which is of great importance to conduct the elections and to determine the right results in the elections, is Article 12, which reads: "The Republic of Serbia has a general voting list in municipalities, as part of a single connected system. The voting list in Article 4 is unique and permanent and is mandatory to update each calendar year, no later than 31 March." You know that all the disagreements over the election have been made clear by several provisions that the one in power who conducted the elections could have violated by the current law. The first basic provision is voter lists. There was no single voter list, there was no obligation to update the voter lists, except for an update in the year in which the elections were held. There was no obligation of a single ballot. We want to make a commitment to the Serbian government to an election that will probably be scheduled for December 17th to establish rules, to provide financial opportunities and technical, that in every municipality, press the computer button to find out whether the voter is listed in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, or when the voter is registered anywhere in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, the voter with a single number of citizens is automatically listed in the municipality in which he was registered in the voter list. In this way, and we have predicted this and this law, every citizen has the right throughout the year to have insight into the voter's list. Of course, it remains the obligation, that immediately after the vote is called, every citizen must be allowed representatives, political parties, to see the voter list, but also this change that reads: that the right to see the voter list throughout the year has every citizen: This allows us to conduct elections so that no one can say that there has been manipulation of the voter lists, that one person has been enrolled several times, that one person is enrolled in several municipalities, that there is a record that they are alive and those who are not long live, that in this way increases the electorate body and achieve better parliamentary results in election units that are objectively not so many voters. It is now also in the composition of the Republic Election Commission because the Republic Election Commission will be doing work in the territory of all Serbia, and there must be 16 permanent members of the Republic Election Commission, elected by the National Assembly on the proposal of parliamentary groups represented in the National Assembly. The Republic Election Commission is now tasked with prescribing a type of spray, which is another newspaper in the electoral law. We predicted that every voter who approaches the vote would first sign the voter's list by hand. When the election authorities find him on the polling list, they are obliged to sign the voter's list and then hand him election material and then spray the right index finger on his hand. That spray must last a minimum of 24 hours and that's enough to give that face more, on December 17th, hopefully, it won't be able to vote in any other polling post, even if it has five ID cards. The new obligation of the Republic Election Commission, contained in Article 34, is that the Republic Election Commission is obliged to provide all election material to all participants within five days of the election day. So, special forms for collecting signatures, for issuing various beliefs, and not so far, that the ruling party collects all signatures, provides all documentation, then only then divides forms to opposition parties, thereby automatically taking first place on the pool list, and then in smaller constituencies, where there are very few voters, picks up all the signatures and thus prevents opposition parties from even participating in the elections. The paper is also in the way of providing signatures for the electoral lists. The election list was confirmed by article 43 when it was supported by at least 10,000 voters. The voter may support only one list with his signature, but each signature referred to in Article 1 of this attitude must be certified in the municipal court. Then it won't be possible for us to hand over the signatures anymore, and the electoral commission says, excuse me, she handed over the SPS of the same signatures before you, so she can bring us back five or six times, or she won't use Sinisa Vucinic's signatures anymore, or, say, collect the signatures to the letter "j". The news is that the polling post is set for, up to 2,500 voters and at least 100 voters. There are no more polling stations where there are no minimum 100 voters. I guess you know why we're doing it, too. The paper is that the person responsible for the election at the latest five days before the election day does not deliver a notice on the day and time of the elections to each voter. Newspapers are the election for the persons at the service of the military term. The law stipulates that no elections are being held in barracks. The law stipulates that any person at the service of a military term or military exercise, in a certain military post office, will have a vote at the nearest polling station to the barracks in which the military post office is located, and that polling post will also have a voter list on which the soldier is registered. Military authorities will have to allow all soldiers to step out of the barracks during the day, following a schedule set by military authorities, carry out their civic duty in a polling post where there are representatives of all political parties participating in the elections and return to the barracks. The Republic Election Commission is required no later than 20 days before the elections are held to inform the already-published polling post of soldiers, or reservers belonging to a certain military post office in a particular municipality, to vote. A census of at least 5% of the votes won to participate in the distribution of the winning mandates remains. The paper is that polling stations where elections, their lists and addresses will be held must be published at least 20 days before the elections are held in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". It must never happen to us again that the elections are held, and that participants in the elections, not only do they not know before the elections where the polling stations are, not only do they not know about the election day, but, behold, 15 days after the elections, participants in the elections, individual ones, I mean those who are not in the SPS and JUL, they don't know where the polling stations were, where the elections were held in these polling stations and what the election results are. The National Assembly will appoint members of the Republic Election Commission within 20 days of the date of entry into force of this law. The Republic Election Commission shall adopt acts provided for by this law at the latest within 5 days of the date of appointment of its members. Funding remains the same, with only the winning mandates being financed. So 1,000 average salaries are provided for participants in the election. According to the number of mandates won, the funds will be allocated. And on the day of entry into force of this law, the Law of Election Units ceases to apply. I think you all know what we want. We want the strength of political parties, party coalitions, groups of citizens, to mean those participating in the elections, to be realistically reflected in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, a proportional number of votes won. I forgot to tell you that the boxes in the polling stations are projected to be made of transparent material -- plastics, plexiglas and other transparent materials.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-09-0.u2262	There's a word from MP Zoran Kostadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-09-0.u2263	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that I am in my last term, or 13. 3. In 1996, I submitted a proposal to the president of the National Assembly to amend the Law on the Selection of MPs. Why did I answer my word now? Because even in my second, next, this term, I once again tried to put the law on the agenda by emergency procedure. That didn't work either. And this is just one step of mine to show you that at that time you took our SPO deputies seriously, we would have something to talk about. I wouldn't do it by the dots now, given that this proposal at point 11, will be able to be spoken of, and now for the next one, I'll brief you on what I was looking for back then. I was looking for... I'm saying this for the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-09-0.u2264	Please allow the MP to speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-09-0.u2265	In particular, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that my role model for the application of this law was the Rules of Procedure of the Kingdom of Serbia. It is for people who run large businesses, especially if they were state-owned, forbidding, i.e. They had to declare whether they would be MPs or be directors of state-owned enterprises. Some of them couldn't be management chiefs, so everyone in the state service had to give up whether they were going to be MPs or not. Why am I telling you this? This is where the businessmen who weren't supposed to sit if this law had been passed, or they would have been in their factories, would have done their job. Mr. Mirko Marjanovic would choose between the Director of Progress and the People's MP, I suppose he would choose a MP, but would then pay more attention to the work of the Assembly, and all of its belongings, all of its work would be related to the work of this assembly. Second of all, he'd set a place free for someone in his own party to, say, lead the Progress. Thirdly, all the companies that participated in the "Progress" business, so "Progress" was extended, wouldn't be. So it would be a better competition. And most importantly, the SPS and JUL personnel who are wasting their time here right now, and the businessmen are, would release their party colleagues from their functions, thus expanding the personnel base that leads directly to the democratisation of the party, so we wouldn't be doing the kind of ugly things that happen to us today, and we probably wouldn't be holding such a sad gathering after these elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-09-0.u2266	Thank you. He has the word of the People's Messenger Jemail Suljević.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-09-0.u2267	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I haven't been able to read the bill, but from the presentation of Mr Nikolic I realized and noticed that the issue of minority nations was not resolved at all. The centzus, which has been determined by five percent, I believe that it does not correspond to reality, and if that remains so, it would mean one open discrimination against minority nations that do not have 5% in the structure of the Republic. Secondly, which I would also point out, i.e. He suggested that Sandzak should be a special constituency, so that the Raška area... You should not have asked that question now because I personally have nothing against whether it will be called Sandzak or Raška, the Raška area, because no other word is of Slovenian origin. [[Comment from the O.R. Can't be heard]] Sandzak is, we know, Turkish, and Raška is Irish, or Albanian, and you choose whatever you want. My suggestion is that Sandzak be a special constituency.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-09-0.u2268	Thank you. Do any of the Members of the People want a word? No, I don't. ) Since no one is answering anymore, I conclude a principled search and put the bill to the vote. I ask the Members of Parliament to put their cards in MPs first. We have a quorum. I'm putting the bill to the vote in principle. For the vote, 164, no one against, four were abstentions, no eight votes, a total of 176 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. I'm opening a law search in detail. Does anyone want to talk about the bill in particular? He doesn't want to. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a search of the bill in particular. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I put the draft law on the selection of MPs in general. The vote was 165, against no one, with three abstentions, was not voted by seven MPs, and 175 were present in the hall. I find that the National Assembly has passed by majority vote a bill on the election of MPs. Since we agreed to just process these two points of the agenda, I would like to inform you that you will be later informed of the continuation of this session, since the constitutionals are coming tomorrow, as I said at the beginning of the session, of a political agreement for this reconstructed government, so we will inform you about it.
