ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-13-0.u2116	The honourable MPs, the amendment to Article 3, reads: "It cannot be sold as a state property by taking away private property other than the owner's will through nationalisation, confiscation, expropriation and other illicit actions carried out in the SFRY, the DFJ and the People's Republic of Serbia, as well as further illicit actions by legal followers of the states mentioned. "The explanation: "A good part of the state-owned immovableity was created by taking away private property from previous owners beyond their will, without just, and often without any compensation. Without this amendment, legal and property violence that has been carried out over private property by the state since 1945 would be recognised. This state property should be subject to reprivatisation. The return of previous owners, or their legal followers, would correct old injustices. Besides, damaged savings cannot be compensated by the property of damaged private property owners. We cannot correct one injustice to another. The property seized through coercion has no continuity of property, and legal transactions and legal actions in connection with this property cannot produce legal facts. That means the state has no right to alienate the acquired property. In addition, a large number of clubs were seized by violating the laws of confiscation itself, and such laws were 27. For example, places less than 70 m2 had to be excluded from nationalisation, at least one at a time, which in most cases was not done. The biggest damage will be suffered by customers of the commercial space of the deprived origin because the state cannot guarantee their ownership within a longer period, the old owners due to the extension of disputes and states which will have to compensate for the damage created in this way. "Now to remind the law professor who yesterday claimed that land could have been returned (agricultural) because it was not taken by law, but by decisions, from case to case, that it was not true. And agricultural land was taken away by law. I'll only mention one law. It's the Agricultural Land Fund Act since 1953. That law was put out of force. So much for the right. A simple peasant has to give a lecture to a law professor. We can think of what his students can learn from him.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-13-0.u2117	Thank you. Anyone else answer for a word? Nobody. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For two, against 154, no one abstained, no one who did not vote, a total of 156 MPs in the hall were present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. The Government's representative did not accept this amendment at the meeting of the Finance Committee. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee to declare this amendment. The rapporteur of the Legislative Committee does not accept this amendment. He has the word National MP Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-13-0.u2118	The amendment to Article 3 is the second amendment that we have proposed. The amendment reads, "It is not possible to sell a business space under the conditions prescribed by this law in the territory of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina". Reason: "The sale of property belonging to the Autonomous province of Vojvodina and municipalities in its territory cannot be allowed, and into the state property of the Republic of Serbia has passed under the 1990 Constitution and laws passed under the 1990 Constitution until new relations between the Republic of Serbia and the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina are regulated. "As this law does not apply in Kosovo, and it will apply to the province of Vojvodina, the citizens of the two provinces, two parts of the Republic of Serbia, have brought an unequal position, and the constitution has regulated that autonomous provinces are equal. If the law does not apply in the territory of the Autonomous province of Kosovo and is applied in the territory of the Autonomous province of Vojvodina, then the provinces have been brought into a constitutionally unequal position in the Republic of Serbia itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-13-0.u2119	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-13-0.u2120	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on this amendment, I must say that yesterday, a large number of citizens of Srema called me this afternoon and wondered where Parliament's right to represent them in such a way, because they were also saving their money to banks throughout Vojvodina. I have to remind you that these people, most of them, are very hard to make that money. They earned it working abroad, they earned it working on their fields, and the horror of that money is largely on the people of the host and those who spent their entire working life on it. Thus, Mr. Veselinov's party is opposed to the loss of foreign currency savings on the territory of Vojvodina, and that should be made public, because they did so today. Mr. Marijan Risticevic has never created anything for the whole of his life and has never done anything. Well, they told me to remind him that even in elementary school, when he had a general-technical education task to make one model of a house of plywood, he couldn't do it either, so he got a unit out of it. Therefore, they told me, let him say in whose name he came out today, in whose name he was saving, and to say, who stood behind it and supported this stranger.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-13-0.u2121	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-13-0.u2122	First of all, the Vojvodina Coalition is not against foreign exchange savings being spared. On the contrary, we insist that all foreign exchanges be compensated. One big question is, who embezzled the foreign savings, me or you? I was not in power when that foreign savings was spent, and many of you were in power when that foreign savings was spent and it must be returned. That's the position of the Vojvodina Coalition. However, we insist here that one injustice is not solved by another injustice. So, the state has enough of its property, without the one that was once private, let it sell it and obliterate foreign currency savings. I may not have been able to make a model of the house, but you're the reason that you're the one who made the radicals fall down other people's houses like card towers in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Because of your policy, not mine. My fellow citizen often asks me who I represent. I represent my voters who voted for our program. Who do you represent, gentlemen of the radicals? You have failed your election promises. You were talking about social justice, equal wages, equal pensions. You were talking about the largest range, the smallest oversized salary of 1:2. Those who said that are now receiving salaries 1:5. Maybe someone was wrong about who voted for the Vojvodina Coalition, but that's why everyone who voted for you was wrong. Maybe I didn't really do anything, but I certainly didn't take anything down, I didn't steal anything, I didn't rob anyone, no one's house burned down because of me, etc. My fellow citizen said in the last session that I was lying, that there were no orders to sow that sugar tree, and I am keeping it here and it says clearly: "On the basis of orders from the Government of the Republic of Serbia since 12.4.2000 for the Indji municipality's agriculture, she has committed DPP "Srem" from India to sow another 200 hectares of additional surfaces under her sugar tail." Who's picking up the waves on the Danube now?
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-13-0.u2123	Replication response.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-13-0.u2124	Apparently, Mr. Risticevic is replacing the thesis. I didn't say that for a moment. I said that Indjia, that "Agrounia", which you mentioned, was assigned 350 acres to sow 150 acres of agricultural cooperative. A total of 500 hectares on Indji territory were assigned. I told you not to tell the truth in that direction, that people were over-popping the barley, which isn't true, Risticevic. However, I must admit from this assembly payphone that Mr. Risticevic, and this can be seen here, uses certain literature and very successfully performs in front of the assembly speaker. If you look at his literature, I think you'd find all the pieces of Baron Minhauzen.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-13-0.u2125	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? Nobody's answering. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For - three, against 157, abstained no one, voted three, a total of 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Predrag Zivkovic. I ask the representative of the Government and the rapporteurs of the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee to declare this amendment. Please, Minister, does the amendment of the People's MP Predrag Zivkovic's Government accept? He doesn't accept. The committees do not accept. I ask the Members of Parliament to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For - two, against 160, no one abstained, one MP did not vote, a total of 163 MPs were present in the hall. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 12, paragraph 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. The Government's representative did not accept this amendment at the meeting of the Finance Committee. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee to declare this amendment. He doesn't accept. Does anyone want a word? He does. National MP Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-13-0.u2126	The amendment reads, "In point 1, point 1. is deleted." Reason: "The intention of the state is obvious to direct money instead of savings to itself, and it is unacceptable for a patriotic government to sell state property for the currency of aggressor and hated states. "It is point 1 of Article 12, where 20% of the funds are scheduled to be paid to the government of the Republic of Serbia for the compensation of foreign savings. It's some special commission of 20% in cash and it's in German stamps. As far as I know, our legislation does not allow funds to be settled in the German trade mark budget of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-13-0.u2127	Thank you. He has the word of Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic, Dr Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-13-0.u2128	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the sake of the general public, I think we need a more precise explanation on this matter. This law, which needs to be passed today by the National Assembly, I hope it will bring, is a special character. It is also brought into some circumstances that are not regular. There's a big government debt, and that debt has to come back. He can't come back from the budget with cash, he has to look for a variant to return to. We allow the government debt to buy state-owned business space. The state is also bound by those small savings to repay their debts, and you know that there are certain problems about it, that the state can't all of a sudden repay the amount that is scheduled for this year in foreign exchanges, something returns in dinars one mark - 20 dinars, and something returns to the national bank of Yugoslavia's gold coins, which are corresponding values. So it takes some money for the state to have in cash to serve these obligations by the end of the year, first of all for those foreign currency savings that appear on bank counters to pay them 150 marks, as the federal law for this year. The gross of this law is calculated on an early settlement of the problem of old foreign savings, not in principle prematurely, but in terms of federal law prematurely, because under federal law all debt should be liquidated by 2011. We're trying to make that happen as soon as possible, and we're also counting through the buy-in of business space so maybe 1/3 could be liquidated this year. We count, through the purchase of business space and some other variations that are in the phase of reconciliation and preliminary talks, that the Republic of Serbia is liquidating all its debts. So, to remain a part of the debt of business banks and part of the Federation's debt, and also in the federal government, there has already been talks on the sale of federal property, on the same principle that the Federation would thus pay off its share of the debt. So these don't break any laws. In line with the principles of legal order, with existing legislation, a special law is adopted to address a particular problem. When the problem is solved, the law will no longer apply. Not only that, this law has been laid down for six months and after six months he will no longer be valid.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-13-0.u2129	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? Nobody. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For two, against 162 abstentions, one did not vote, 165 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 12, point 2. The amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Risticevic. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. A representative of the Government, at the meeting of the Finance Committee, did not accept this amendment. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee to declare this amendment. He doesn't accept. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Two, against 160, with no abstentions, no two, a total of 164 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Anyone else want to talk about the bill in particular? He doesn't want to. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a search of the bill in particular. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I put to the vote the draft law on the sale of certain immovableities in state property in order to meet the obligations of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of the foreign savings of citizens and loans for economic development in the Republic of Serbia as a whole. For the 163 vote against no one, with two abstentions, voted one, a total of 166 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the Bill on the sale of certain immovableities in state property in order to meet the obligations of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of the foreign savings of citizens and loans for economic development in the Republic of Serbia. We move to the fourth item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on the First Emissions of the Long-term Obligations of the Republic of Serbia You have adopted a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received an amendment, which was submitted by the Legislative Committee to the draft law. You have received a report from the Finance Committee, which proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the bill. You have received a report from the Legislative Committee, which adopted the draft law in principle and in particular, by proposing that amendments in Articles 10; 11; 12 and 13. These amendments to the Legislative Committee were agreed by a representative of the Committee's proposings and adopted by the Finance Committee. At the session of the Legislative Committee, the opinion was set out by MP Milan Mikovic. I'm opening a principled search. The proposing representative has already talked about the law. Does MP Milan Mikovic, who issued an opinion at the session of the Legislative Committee, want a word? He won't, since he's not there. Do any of the MPs want a word? He has the word Miroslav Nedeljkovic, the minister of family care.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-13-0.u2130	Dear People's MPs, the law on the first emissions of long-term bonds should solve the most difficult problem of the Republic of Serbia in the social sphere. This most difficult problem is large debt to families with children, i.e. children’s and maternal supplements. The addition to children and mothering allowances are, by the way, part of the social care system for children who, besides these, include maternity benefits during maternity leave, one-time financial assistance for newborn equipment, pre-school financing and childcare resorts. This is an important part of the social policy of the state as a whole, and its importance for the management of population policy should not be ignored. In fact, the extremely difficult demographic situation and the dreary demographic perspectives require active leadership and population policies, and all rights in the social care system for children are the backbone of material incentives for families with children. All the measures covered by the social care system for children have been governed by the Children's Social Care Act since 1992, and this system, with so many rights and many users, has been set up in a system of relative economic well-being. By the number and breadth of rights and the amount of material segregation compared to the social product, Serbia belongs to countries with highly developed social protection. This, as a state and as a people, we can be proud, but everything that has been brought down on us in this decade has disabled the normal and regular financing of all these rights. Unlike other countries in our environment, the transition state, which addressed its incomparably fewer difficulties by reducing or even eliminating citizens' rights in the social sphere, left Serbia at the same level of social protection of citizens. A country that has been exhausted in the past decade by war in the environment, by the collapse of a country in which there was an inflow of large numbers of refugees, sanctions, blockades, eventually and severe destruction during NATO aggression, had to provide, among other things, the functioning of such a system of social and children's protection. A million children use one of these rights or some form of protection in it. Such a large number of users and the amount of financial resources needed to settle obligations is a great burden for the country's economy. The payment of these commitments has been particularly compromised in recent years. Since 1995, the state has been unable to meet these obligations regularly. Thus, in 1995, 10 monthly payments were paid, 1996 and 1997 by seven monthly commitments, in 1998, ten, and in 1999 only four monthly commitments were paid. The combined effect on today is 26 unmistakable monthly commitments. The percentage of implementation of social care funds for children in this period lags behind the percentage of budget implementation in general. This could be an argument that the unequal status of these users compared to other budget users, however, in a real situation without additional real sources of income, a more regular payment of children's allowances could only go through a different distribution of available funds. In other words, we could pay children's allowances more regularly, but in that case the situation of other beneficiaries of the budget would be further worsened. Children's allowances have the character of personal income, and many other incomes financed from the budget ensure the functioning of public services and social activities. As a result of the reduction of public service and social activities, it would be much more difficult and would call into question the functioning of public services and these activities and their recovery. The government of the People's Unity has taken certain steps to improve the status of social and children's protection. Let me remind you, there's been an introduction of registration fees for motor vehicles, mobile phone charges, charges for possession of firearms. The only reason for their introduction is to increase the resources available for social and childcare. There have been many attacks on these measures by the government, a fierce media campaign has been led by opposition political parties, and yet, although the position of these users remains very difficult, it is at least partially facilitated by the introduction of these additional sources of budget revenues. The situation in this area, however difficult, would have been even harder if we hadn't introduced these taxes in time. The Ministry of Family Care has partly, thanks to these funds, and partly thanks to selective orientation, managed to significantly reduce or fully settle the debt of maternity benefits users and once-in-a-lifetime financial aid for newborn equipment, so that today with this law, which we are adopting today, we are at peace only for child and maternal supplements. Also, the Ministry of Family Care manages to regularly, without delay, reconcile its obligations to preschool institutions, so that to the satisfaction of the users of preschool institutions carry out their work at a very high material and professional level. The difficult economic situation of families who are users of child and maternal supplements, as well as our legal and moral obligation, requires us to settle these debts urgently. In a situation where cash payments are not possible, we were looking for a model that will be the most useful for the state, and for the users the most acceptable. The way in which debt is settled, as prescribed by the law, the broadcasting of long-term bonds, is the first pioneering step in introducing a real value paper market. In addition to the tax options listed in Article 8 of the Law, i.e. paying tax obligations, buying apartments, buying textbooks, paying for the use of pre-school institutions and treatment costs, there are potentially unlimited possibilities of paying for goods and services by all undertakings and legal entities. It will take a certain period of time for such a imagined mechanism to be launched and stalking, and the law stipulates that 20% of their debt to the state should be settled by the end of the year by selling goods and bond services, and a significant economic motive for businesses has been built in because bonds under certain conditions have twice the nominal value. What the users at the end of the day guarantee is the cash payment of the due bonds, every six months, with the billing of interest which is 10% higher than the Econt rate of the National Bank of Yugoslavia. I believe that the law will be well adopted by those to whom it is intended, and the disputes and attacks we expect from those political forces that every success of the Government of the People's Unity is seen as their failure. We are, of course, handling the interests of citizens, not the interests of competitive political forces. In the end, it's not an exaggeration to say that this law is a kind of undertaking. By the size of the funds involved, it is an undertaking that exceeds the building ventures during the reconstruction phase of the war-torn buildings. The long-term commitment of this country remains - the preservation of citizens' rights in the field of social and childcare and the regular financing of these rights. Let's hope by our own forces, and without distraction from the side, we can meet these obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-13-0.u2131	I thank Minister Nedeljkovic. People's MP Miroljub Veljkovic came to the floor.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-13-0.u2132	Someone once said that only human stupidity is unlimited. Parliamentarian Risticevic's remarks in this assembly are an obvious confirmation that the claim is correct. Dear People's MPs, I am very pleased that the government of the Republic of Serbia has adopted the long-standing initiative of the Serbian Radical Party and has proposed three extremely important laws for this extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. These are primarily the law on the regulation of part of the old foreign currency savings by selling immovable property in the state property, then the law on the payment of children's and maternal allowances through the issuance of long-term bonds by the Republic of Serbia and the law on public enterprises. All three laws are extremely important from the point of view of restoring citizens' confidence in the institutions of the state. As for this law, which is now on the agenda, the law on the payment of children's and maternal allowances by issuing long-term bonds of the Republic of Serbia, I would remind you of a few facts. The commitments made by the Republic of Serbia on the basis of unmistakable children's supplements are late, as the minister said, over 26 months, and are on average close to 4 billion dinars. Obligations on the basis of a mother's allowance are as late as they are close to 300 million dinars. So we were about to pay off April - May 1998. I would remind you that the total users of child supplements and maternal supplements in the Republic are about 733 thousand. It's a huge population. And finally, honourable MPs, I would remind you, too, that it is an obligation for the state to deprive itself of its citizens and to regularly settle its obligations in the future. It's one of every country's basic obligations. The bonds issued by the state by the users of the child allowance and the maternal allowance will be able to settle the following obligations (Mr. Finance Minister taxed yesterday, but not worse to repeat it), means, property tax, income tax, agriculture, total income tax, bonds can be used to buy an apartment in the Republic, then pay for the cost of child accommodation in pre-school institutions, buy textbooks and treat the child. The exceptional quality of the law has been given in the provisions that the bonds will be on the bearer and thus gave the economic operators an extraordinary opportunity and a chance to reconcile their tax returns to the republican budget, in a double amount. For example, if a legal person or entrepreneur owes two million dinars to the state on the basis of an unmistakable tax, it is sufficient to collect bonds worth one million and regulate their debt to the state. The same applies to the users of the Credit Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia. The debt of economic operators to the state on the basis of an unmistakable tax is currently around four billion dinars, according to the finance ministry, and the unmistakable commitments to the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia amount to around 600 million dinars. It's a huge asset. These business entities are also as stimulated by the state to regulate their obligations with a discount as much as 50%. I think they should make the most of that chance. Whether bonds from citizens (i.e. those business entities) will be bought by selling their products and services or by cash, it is up to them to decide. I urge the Government of the Republic of Serbia to send a strong message to these companies, these economic operators - you must take this opportunity. I am convinced that such a message would be both stimulating to these companies through the competent state authorities. And finally, honourable MPs, in the hope that the Government of the Republic of Serbia will, in a very short time and in a similar way, resolve the remaining pensions of farmers, I call on you to accept this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-13-0.u2133	Thank you. He has the word of the Serb MP Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-13-0.u2134	Dear President, honourable MPs, we have before us a draft law on the first emissions of long-term bonds of the Republic of Serbia, which need to meet the commitments made to supplement children and a maternal supplement under the Law on Social Care for Children. For us, the Socialists have always been, and it is now, to take care of man, social justice, stable social status of individuals, family and society. Creating economic and social conditions for displaying these values is not an easy task, especially in a modern world where justice is very expensive. Our general public is aware that there are great delays in the payment of the rights established in the area of child protection, despite the government's efforts and the resolution ministry for further development of the social care system for children, as a significant part of social and population policy. The proposal for a bond broadcasting law is therefore a strategy of the operation of the SPS, aimed at addressing the problem of achieving regular implementation of obligations. I point out this because Article 9 of the proposal points out that the funds provided in the Republic of Serbia's budget are part of the funding for children's and mother's allowances and funds from the sale of business buildings and business premises adopted by the Republic of Serbia. The bonds refer to the bearer on 30 June 2000, and it is important here to stress that they are broadcast when the total amount is greater than 1,000 dinars per user, while less than 1,000 dinars will be paid in cash. So it clearly underlines the difference. These bonds to be issued on the bearer would be issued for a period of four years, the first of which would arrive for payment on January 1st 2001. I point out he's a proposing, i.e. The government also set interest on nominal value, which means that the amount will not be devalued. By reaching coupons and interest, of course, legal persons and entrepreneurs can settle tax obligations on the basis of dinar claims from the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, and citizens to pay taxes on property, on income from agriculture, on total income from citizens, to buy apartments, pay for the stay of children in kindergartens, buy textbooks, pay for treatment costs, etc. Dear People's Messengers, we have defended the land, without much noise we restore, build and develop our country. We boldly, responsibly and organisedly restore our war-torn economy, which has suffered great damage due to war-torn destruction and economic sanctions and external pressures. And there's an answer to the question -- why we're late for payments. However, we are witnessing, behold, yesterday, the openings and the Panchevic highway, not so long ago other buildings. In all municipalities, facilities of capital importance shall be put into operation. Let's go boldly into development, we've passed the law to settle foreign currency savings. So we're not looking for a story, we're looking for foreign powers, we're looking for the truth, we're looking for jobs and you're coming out of the interest of all citizens. And this law that we bring into the interest of wide layers of citizens. By removing the consequences of NATO aggression and social policy, it will gain importance, not only as a constant concern and protection of the most vulnerable categories of people, but also as a prerequisite for stable development, which will bring good to all citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-13-0.u2135	He has the word National MP Dragan Ljubojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-13-0.u2136	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, after the constitution of the Government of National Unity in the state of Serbia, a very difficult economic and social situation has been found. It further deteriorated with last year's NATO aggression and given everything the Government of People's Unity has done since the end of NATO's aggression, in terms of rebuilding the country and building the municipal infrastructure and the recovery of the consequences of the war, it was necessary to channel a part of the funds into that area and in this direction. This slowed down those plans of the government of the People's Unity at the recovery of economic and social life in the country. However, since the first day of the government's constitution she has seriously addressed this part of the social problems, so we have witnessed that last year a really big problem has been solved, a problem behind pensions. Three pensions, on the basis of a proposal from the government of the Republic of Serbia, have been met with electricity bonuses. We have witnessed that at today's meeting, this government policy has resulted in the adoption of the law on the return of old foreign currency savings or on the sale of certain immovable property owned by the Republic of Serbia, which will speed up the recovery process of old foreign currency savings. The law we are now discussing - the law on the first emissions of long-term bonds of the Republic of Serbia - is at this moment the only rational, only possible, most optimal solution for the reconciliation of state obligations towards children's and material supplements users. As we have heard from the presentation of government members, the obligation based on child and maternal supplements is over 4.200,000 dinars. At this point, it is absolutely unacceptable (and I really welcome the government's policy that insists on the stability and firmness of the dinar course) at one point, as well as impossible, to settle these obligations, because it would require a primary show, so printing money, which is -- I underline once again -- absolutely unacceptable. The Serbian government will issue the bill precisely in that amount of bonds consisting of eight coupons and will arrive for payment. The first coupon comes for payment on January 1st 2001 and so every six months. It is important to point out that the interest on bonds is at the level of the Escont rate of the National Bank of Yugoslavia, increased by 10%, which guarantees that bonds will not be defused within the period of maturity. What is the most significant feature of this law is contained in Art. 7 and 8 allowing citizens to owe their payment claims on these two grounds, i.e. to make bonds even before they reach the deadline. Article 8 provides for natural persons to be able to settle certain obligations with their bonds, so bonds issued by the Republic of Serbia before the maturity, and thus the property tax, income tax from agriculture, taxes on the total income of citizens. Also, their bonds arrived, with interest payments, that is to say, with interest and failures, with the handover of interest coupons, can be used to buy apartments in the property of the Republic of Serbia, as well as for the cost of child accommodation in pre-school institutions. They can buy textbooks under the basic and secondary education programme and settle the cost of treating children in health-rehabilitation centres and institutions in the country and their escorts. It is important to point out that, according to the proposal, a large number of tax-based enterprises owe the Fund for Development of the Republic of Serbia a significantly higher amount than the debt of the state to children's and maternal supplements. Article 7 provides that legal entities and entrepreneurs can double the amount of public income, so taxes and commitments on the basis of dinar demand from the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia. These members of the law encourage legal persons and entrepreneurs to buy bonds from citizens to reduce their debt to the state by 50%. It is also foreseen by the same member that those legal persons with obligations based on taxes and claims from the Fund for Serbia's Development until 31 December 2000 are obliged to deliver 20 per cent of the debt to bond bearers. Finally, I would point out that in the next period before the Government of the People's Unity, it is the task of continuing to settle these obligations with the continued payment of pensions, children's supplements and maternal supplements, so that no new delays can occur. I expect, given these results that the Government of National Unity has achieved in the social sphere, that in the coming period, in the most recent time, the National Assembly will be submitted to the adoption of laws of this type and of this character that will solve and overcome the problem of paying off agricultural pensions. Finally, I really want to express my satisfaction that, as a member of the Serbian Radical Party, today I have the opportunity to vote in favour of this legislative project, which is one of the programming definitions of the Serbian Radical Party. This is what the Serbian Radical Party insisted in the pre-election campaign in 1997, which, among other things, earned the trust of 1,250,000 Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-13-0.u2137	Thank you. There's a word from MP Lakicevic. Let MP Dragan Nikolic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-13-0.u2138	Dear President, honourable MPs, on the agenda of this meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we have several very important draft laws, whose proposal is the Government of the National Unity, which fit the Socialist Party of Serbia programme and which represent an important segment in the realisation of the drawn policy and the definition of non-inflatorious, from real sources, of previously created obligations to users. These bill proposals enable the resolution of debt-confidential relations and have a wide range of subjects treated by the law. In that sense, there are broad opportunities. The bill's proposals, essentially, represent the definition of a stable policy, both pricey, monetary and other, which enables a real economic environment, development and prosperity. In addition to a number of laws passed in the areas of economic, financial, tax, fiscal and other policies, the government of the Republic of Serbia is also proposing that laws be passed in the fields that represent the continuation of the policy outlined from this and previous years. The government of the People's Unity has made huge efforts to maintain stable prices, maintain production, social product, supply of the population and others, allowing for the preservation of the monetary sphere and for all financial activities to be resolved from real sources. Serbia's government has given its biggest contribution to rebuilding the destroyed and destroyed facilities due to NATO aggression. Development is now being accelerated as an assumption of a better and better life, a standard and so on. The reconstruction and development represent the image of strength, knowledge and patriotism not only of the Government of National Unity, but of all citizens of Serbia, without whose support the results would not be the same, which is to restore everything destroyed and destroyed and reach a high level of development in all areas of life and work. Is it necessary to testify about this since recently completed and released in the traffic of the Belgrade-Pancevo highway, built in record time? The government of the Republic of Serbia has worked under unprecedented pressures from outside, restrictions and blockades, but also under pressure from their helpers in a country that does not want to do well to this people, but has not yet explained why. Serbian citizens know the answers to the questions of destruction, betrayal and service. It is especially important to highlight the care of young people, trained professionals. In this sense, a grand idea began. It's the idea of building 100,000 apartments in the next ten years. Law proposals include many entities, legal and physical persons. In particular, broad opportunities have been given to use spectrum benefits in regulating certain obligations under very favourable conditions. This is a further disbursement of the business of certain entities that have used favourable credit arrangements of the Serbia Development Fund or are taxpayers, excises and so on. Therefore, it is a fully comprehensive, positive economic project and it is not necessary to ignore the fact that businesses, which are users of the Fund for the Development of Serbia, taxpayers and excises, are to clean up their obligations directly or in multiple relations. Therefore, it is about proposals for laws that have their own human and social dimension, especially the law on the first issue of bonds, because it regulates obligations towards children, mothers, which confirms the definition of the Socialist Party on humanity and social justice. I suggest that the MPs adopt the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-13-0.u2139	Thank you. There is a word from MP Dragan Nikolic, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Dr Jovan Krkobabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-13-0.u2140	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, there is no political party in Serbia that does not have part of the social programme in its programme, i.e. to help people who are powerless, or who are powerless. That includes a party whose representative, i.e. the Serbian Radical Party. In front of us today, we have a law that is devoid of all ideologies. We have a law that wants to help that group of people, that is, our children, our future, and our mothers who protect children and our future. Each party in the pre-election campaign made promises, each party had part of a social programme in its programme, so help today is on the agenda. The Serbian Radical Party has given its programme, it proposed how to resolve the issue. Today we have this settled in a law which I hope the National Assembly of Serbia will adopt today. I think the government's proposal just came at the right time. Maybe it should've been done before. However, what we have experienced over the past few years has created an extremely bad economic and social situation. So this is about a purely debt-confidential relationship. On the one hand, we have a debtor, which is a state, on the other hand, we have a trustee, it's children and mothers. This debt-confidential relationship should be resolved in such a way that what is due will be paid. The government of the People's Unity, which personifies the state of Serbia, as well as we and this assembly, which I hope will adopt today, has decided to return what it owes in the most honest way. She had and there were actually a lot of proposals from non-serious political parties, that we'd get money from abroad, that we wouldn't have to torture ourselves, to tighten the belt, but we'd pay for it without any problems. However, the Government of People's Unity, which is met by serious parties, has decided to tighten the belt and find ways to pay off this as soon as possible. We know 24 months of war hasn't been paid off, maybe even more. We have today's promise from the government's representative that if we resolve this way of paying off the debt that the state has since 24, maybe several months, then every month after that, there will be a regular payment of these obligations. Therefore, we remain to trust the Government of People's Unity, which has so far shown all seriousness and all responsibility in this difficult situation and which has managed to introduce one economic monetary stability, I hope now and social stability and security among citizens. On the Legislative Committee, absolutely regarding this law, we did not have any more serious remarks, except for some of the opposition representatives, who wanted to sort of get explanations about how everything in this law can be solved as well as possible. However, it is quite clear that it is a concise law that has 18 members. It is a core, completely clear and even ignorant party, and it is clear to ignorant people what this law wants and how it can be obtained that this law will be envisaged, that is, when adopted and implemented. I would only read what they have the right to, to the successful coupons containing nominal value and interest of natural persons can reconcile the following obligations, this should be reminded, because it will not come to every hand and anyone who has obtained the right to this law, it can settle the tax on property, income tax on agriculture, taxes on the total income of citizens, for the purchase of apartments in the property of the Republic of Serbia, the cost of housing children in pre-school institutions, the purchase of textbooks under the basic and secondary education programme and the cost of treating children in health and rehabilitation institutions in the country and its companion. So, a wide range of possibilities to settle what is owed with these coupons. The coupons that have not arrived can also be used. So if we know that on average every family trusts in the state with 10,000 dinars in this situation, that's money that'll be good for every one of these families. It's mostly families that are at the edge of existence, families that have really big economic problems. Well, with 10,000 dinars right now, they can cover a lot of their expenses and what they didn't even have, which they gave up a few years ago. So, with 10,000 dinars at this point, and with the unattainable bonds, you can trade in a large number of companies. Yesterday we heard a whole list, a whole bunch of these companies where they can be traded. With these 10,000 dinars, all deficits can be solved. At the same time, companies that receive and take these bonds are due to the state, in connection with public revenues, in a double amount. So we have what's useful to both the debtor and the trustee, which is very difficult, you'll admit, to adopt at this point. However, the government of the Republic of Serbia has found that this model is one of the best. Since it is a model that has reconciled both debtors and creditors, it owes the state, and at this point it is due by a huge amount of four billion and 260 million dinars. Trustees get bonds, which are on the bearer. So they're money just written on paper. There is a possibility that we can resolve this issue and that at the next session of the Assembly we can already solve other problems, take them into consideration. The Serbian Radical Party respects the programme and part of the programme drawn up and entered into the law. I'm sure her MP group will vote for this bill. I would only tell young couples that they are doing their job, and the government of the Republic of Serbia is already thinking about them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-13-0.u2141	There is a word from the MP Dr Jovan Krkobibic, and let the MP of the people prepare Dusica Karabenc.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-13-0.u2142	Dear President, honourable Members of the People, just a few words, since this law was already quite said yesterday. I would just like to say that the children's and mother's protection programme is only one segment of the overall programme or that the realisation of our country's social protection policy is in general. I must say that we as a state and as a society have created an entirely ambitious programme of overall social security, with only one segment of social protection and special child and maternal protection. Of course, such a well-conceived programme, in light of the circumstances that we've been through for the last decade, was certainly not possible to realize in the way we wanted it as a state and as a society. Hence, there was this delay in the implementation of children's protection programmes, children's supplements and maternal supplements. The delay is long enough for a number of reasons, but given all the arguments he gave at first and the finance minister and vice-president of the government and before me, the minister of family care, there is no point in repeating it all again. I'll just say a few words. It's remarkable that this law has been passed now. It can be said that it was brought at a time when objectively it was possible to implement this program. It's a lot of money, and that's four billion 260 million, and it certainly wasn't possible for the dinar to realise in some previous period, because we had a backlog of pensions, so we had a lag behind these agricultural pensions and some other backlogs in the area of social policy. That's why I think it's just been found when it's possible to do it without major disturbances. What is important is that the proposed solution is such that it will not cause monetary disturbances, will not cause price and value disturbances, in monetary value. That's why I think that's a good solution. This mass is divided into eight equal wars and will be realized in the way it's said here, not to repeat it. I think it's one solution that objectively allows the program to be implemented without causing any social, economic, but no financial disturbances. It's good for a lot of reasons. First of all, we know that our population situation in the country is such that we really need to make a maximum effort to make a positive step in the direction of faster, so to speak, giving birth to children, because we have such a population that we have a negative growth in this period. Of course, this will not only enable this problem to be solved, but it will certainly be one of the most important contributions to making a positive move in that part. On the other hand, the issue of the realisation of the social programme, in general, is important at the moment, and because this lagging still should no longer be delayed, given that it has been a permanent delay for several years, as the minister said since 1995, and I don't think we should allow that in this part. The solution found is good, and I think it will fit the economy, but it will also suit the users of this right. I don't want to list all these questions that my colleague just mentioned in front of me, which are the rights, so I don't bother you any further. In any case, very favourable solutions for rights users, but also for the economy and for the way in which this right is resolved financially as far as the state is concerned. So I think we've all made a step together. The government is very closely monitoring this, all of these problems that arise in different areas and find moments for their solutions, when it is most convenient, and we can also welcome the government's policy in this area.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-13-0.u2143	Thank you. There is a word from MP Dusica Karabenc, and may the vice-president of the National Assembly Dragoljub Stamenkovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-13-0.u2144	Dear Chairman, fellow MPs, the Vojvodina Coalition and I personally, as the mother of two children, welcome the government's final decision to meet its obligations to mothers and children. In addition, when the budget was adopted, the Vojvodina Coalition had an objection as to why much of the funds were allocated to Serbia's MUP, and only a small part for social contributions, about 250 dinars per person, as far as I remember. I just don't get it, you said here he's late to pay for 26 children's supplements and that it's caused by NATO aggression and rebuilding the country. As far as I know, that was last year. What about the constant delay, and why did it happen in the first place, and who's to blame? I think this is all one big pre-election make-up. Before the election, you wave a magic wand and quickly fill up the pensioners, then the foreign exchanges save, now the mothers and children, and then you'll make up the peasants and fix it up in two or three months. I wonder what you've been doing all this time while you're in power and why you ever let that happen, which is why our factories haven't worked for years and people are on hold because they can't live off their work? No one mentions it. It's all NATO's fault. I'm not saying it, and it's affected, but all these problems are being dragged away from much earlier, and I think that's what you're supposed to account for to the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-13-0.u2145	He has the word Vice-President of the National Assembly Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-13-0.u2146	Ladies and gentlemen, I was wondering if this would do any good if the Vojvodina Coalition supported anything, which is in favour of both the people and the citizens. At last, conditions have been created to resolve the debt problem that the state has towards families that are users of child and maternal supplements, which have not received these supplements over a long period of time. We know that these are the poorest families in Serbia, who live on very small or almost no profit. The proposal for a law on the first emissions of long-term bonds of the Republic of Serbia, which referred to the consideration and adoption of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, defines the conditions for debt to be due from real material sources and resources without producing inflation. This bill provides that the Republic shall issue securities of value of four billion dinars for those purposes. Of course, we expect the critics of this bill, and they are all from the NATO Party, to welcome this solution to the knife. On the other hand, we do not expect any concrete remarks, since there are no such objections. We expect them to deal with history, and just before the predecessor proved it -- to ask why the debt was created, who was responsible for it, why the debt had not been paid before. Serbian citizens know the answers to these questions, and one of the answers is that these debts would not have occurred or would have been much less if it hadn't been for the NATO aggression mentioned for 78 days, when they destroyed everything that was created in this country, both roads and railways and bridges and factories, killing innocent citizens. Not many other problems in Serbia would have been without criminal sanctions imposed on the Serbian people and on the Serbian economy for 10 and more years. There's an answer for why no fees were paid before, and the war was last year. The sanctions last a lot longer and you probably forgot that. For these sanctions are the responsibility of friends from NATO countries, and Djindjic, and Draskovic and some of the other smaller or larger, but all the divisions of the treasonous parties, parties and leaders. The second remark we've expected and expected is why the debt doesn't come back in cash. Already, this proposal is now being presented by the government, which we have heard before, with a marketing move by the ruling coalition ahead of the upcoming elections. If the ruling parties had until pre-election marketing, they would have paid the debt in full in cash. Of course, it is clear to all what the consequences would be if this problem were solved in the shortest way possible. We'd be back in 1993, hyperinflation and the final break of the Serbian economy. The real revenues of the Republic of Serbia do not allow such a solution. This government, as very responsible and thrifty, can't reach out to that, I'd say, crazy solutions. The government of the People's Unity and this law makes it clear to the citizens of Serbia, as it did by repaying the debt to pensioners, a law allowing debt to be paid back to old foreign currency savings, that no debt to the citizens will fail, and that debts will be paid back from real sources and revenues, without printing money. The government of the Republic of Serbia is responsible for telling citizens - the country is in a difficult state, there are no major sources of income, we do not court citizens, the return period will be shorter or longer, proportionate to the revenues that come into the Republic of Serbia's budget. No makeup, no special marketing. I am convinced that, in a similar way, there will be a return of debts to the farmers' pensions. That's how the responsible and patriotic government works. Serbian radicals support this kind of work by the Government of National Unity and remind that this was also one of the reasons why the Serbian Radical Party entered the coalition government of People's Unity. The Serbian Radical Party believes that the best option for deleveraging towards users of children's and motherly supplements is the variant of breaking through mutual claims on the state, citizens and economy. Many companies have used loans from the Fund for Serbia's Development. These loans must be returned, and the best and cheapest way to repay these loans is to enable children's supplements and maternal supplements, which, on the other hand, are due to the Republic of Serbia, to buy goods for the bonds they own. Selling their bond goods reduce their liabilities based on fiscal burdens and loans from the Serbia Development Fund by 50%. So this is for the company very favourable, and with the promise we heard from the Government of the Republic of Serbia that new debts will not be paid, that they will be paid in order of maturity, regularly, what follows the users of these supplements, the Government of the Republic of Serbia does not need better advertising. The government is certainly the most successful and life-saving government Serbia has ever had. The Serbian Radical Party supports the bill and calls on all other MPs to vote in favour of the law. In the end, it is also good that consumers of children's allowances due to up to 1,000,00 dinars are paid immediately in cash because they need it most.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-13-0.u2147	Thank you. He has the word "Beautiful Milicevic."
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-13-0.u2148	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I may not have answered my word that from this pay phone it was not said that NATO aggression was last year, and we are constantly calling for NATO aggression. Well, I guess we all know how long NATO aggression lasts. It takes at least 10 years, in very clear forms that just change, change their intensity, ways, shapes and everything else. The country has been living with the arrested economy for ten years now, and since it is not a fact that the economy has been arrested continuously for nine years, it yielded results expected by the aggressors, then decided to make its aggression even more public, most publicly possible. Maybe this Europe doesn't know and maybe most of the world doesn't know, but they're all under NATO aggression, and the European countries that took part in the bombing of our country, as one of the expressions of NATO aggression. And all of this is done by calling for human rights and for various other flossules, made up to justify all of these abominations that are done to nations like ours. And among these peoples who did not behave like ours, and who did not say to all that they were asked to live no better. On the contrary, they live upstairs. My colleagues from Romania are working in Vojvodina and eastern Serbia for 10 marks, not doing their job, doing the most difficult physical work, which none of our citizens, threatened by all these events, will work for a 10-mark salary. So Romania listened to everything they asked of her. Kill the president, they killed the president. Take down all system institutions, take down all system institutions. How do they live? It's not hard to see. Shall we take Bulgaria as an example? For one pension, you can't take a city traffic trip, there, by their tram, for the amount of one pension. And they listened to everything, unlike us who disobeyed. This country, apart from being exposed to everything and all these aggressions, had a moral and any other obligation to share with everyone in greater trouble than our share everything it has, of course, and everything it does not have. With his countrymen over the Drina all the time, of course we had to help them. Who's gonna help them if we don't? In ways we could. I asked gentlemen from abroad who I had the chance to talk to, who are dealing with so-called. by humanitarian work and by constantly speaking of human rights, I asked them -- how they explain that the fundamental human right of the citizens of this country is denied. Like, right to health care. Well, and sentenced to death, they have the right to health care until the death penalty is executed. And by arresting our economy, not to mention what they did last year, they brought down our country, and they say they're beating up the regime, and there's twice as many civilian casualties from military and police. I'm talking about it because it's all our brothers, our husbands, our sons, but the army and the police represent the regime. Civilians don't represent the regime. There are twice as many civilian casualties as military and police, and the regime is being beaten, all the people are being beaten, gentlemen dear. In Belgrade, every third resident in Belgrade is not a Serb. In Serbia, every third person in Serbia is not a Serb, so they don't know who the Serb is and who isn't. Therefore, aggression takes a long time, changing its forms, and the government of the Republic of Serbia and the previous and this people's unity, and I believe some other future government of the Republic of Serbia, which is likely to be the same government of the people's unity, will do everything to make its citizens' problems smaller and not bigger. Well, this law and this solution are also suggested in this sense that the problems be smaller, not for some other reason. Of course it would be the simplest thing if we hadn't been exposed to everything we were, of course everything would have worked out the way it says. And why we didn't imitate social rights with our own capabilities, because once the rights are lost, they're very difficult to restore. And if we can change the circumstances, and as you can see, we're changing them, the rights are self-established. She proved this in 1994 after that hyperinflation, all rights were established in 1994, both in health and in other social protections, and they began to self-inflicted when the pressure on our country grew. Therefore, this law and, in general, all these laws that are going today are aimed at making our fellow citizens' problems, all in different ways a victim of everything our country has been exposed to smaller. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-13-0.u2149	Anybody else answer for a word? You spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-13-0.u2150	Mr. President, I wasn't talking about this point. I wouldn't answer a word, however, she was here to question the patriotism of members of the Vojvodina Coalition. We have, on many occasions, strongly condemned the aggression of the NATO Pact.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-13-0.u2151	Mr. Risticevic, did you answer the line or are you talking about the law? It's not patriotism on the agenda, please speak of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-13-0.u2152	Others were talking about the aggression of the NATO Pact and you didn't bother them. I mean, we condemn the aggression of the NATO Pact, and you don't allow it. That's what you've allowed all the other MPs to do. I spent my personal war with an air surveillance unit, reporting and guidance unit. So, half the war I spent with them and believe that risk was exceptional and for that I got a thank you from them. I think they were real heroes. We're just here saying that the aggression of the NATO Pact is not the only reason for the delay in maternal and children's supplements. This means that we condemn the aggression of the NATO Pact, but that we resent the government that it could still pay for mother and child allowances, because by the moment of aggression, it's already been 20 months and a few months, or so many mother and child accessories. It is not true that every success of the government of national unity is our failure. Today we look forward to the final decision by the Government to pay off the debts towards the mothers, according to the children, at least we in Vojvodina know what a white plague is. We look forward to the government’s decision to make up the debt to the population. We will vote for this law. However, we want some misunderstandings to be removed. What we're trying to say is that we wouldn't want this law on compensation and compensation for mother and child allowances to apply until after the election. We'd like you to guarantee us that maternal and child benefits will be paid regularly after the election. Also, we would like a legal misunderstanding, it seems to me, in Article 4, to remove the issue of bonds from being broadcast on July 1st, because it is retroactive, but to take the day of entry into force of this law for a date (which the Government may amend). Because it's not legal for the law to say it was adopted on July 13th and the bonds to be issued on July 1st. You told me there are laws that have a retroactive fact, but then it explains why these laws act retroactively, because it's a different constitutional procedure. To conclude, we of the Vojvodina Coalition are patriots, but we don't view war cooing as patriotism, we condemn the aggression of the NATO Pact, we are for it to be regular for all children, or all mothers to receive mother and child accessories. We are also looking forward to the government's intention to make up for the peasants' back of over two years in the non-payment of peasant pensions, because we are afraid that some of them will exercise their rights and will die and will not welcome that pension. We welcome the government's intention and demand that it respond to an emergency procedure and that aged peasants, who have delivered millions of tons of food to this country, acquire a dignified age. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-13-0.u2153	Anybody else answer for a word? He has the word Finance Minister Borislav Milacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-13-0.u2154	I think Leposava Milicevic said the most important thing in her presentation, which explains the overall situation and the gravity of seeking a solution to the social rights problem, which the state needs to exercise, and the efforts this government makes to achieve. That's why I only reported here that this vagueness, reportedly, July 1st and today July 14th, would clarify once again to the MPs who are here, who are looking forward to me, supported the passing of this law. July 1st is the date on which bonds will be practically legitimateized in terms of interest accounting. Debt with June 30th is cut off, a member of the law is established on June 30th, the government's commitment is running as of July 1st, and from that date interest is charged on the first bond reaching June 30th of the following year. So it's not about any retroactiveness, it's about the precision of the standard by which the interest rate for those families who are going to wait to receive the money paid, it clearly defines, and it's simply a legal technique that regulates the relationship in a clear way. We can't since 13 June, because then it turns out that we wouldn't even be entitled to interest between this period when it's cut. It is in the interest of the users of the right, and therefore we want the beneficiary of the right to exercise by this law in a clear way, precisely, his rights that this bond emission carries.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-13-0.u2155	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No one's answering. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units (we have the quorum). I put to the vote the draft law on the first emissions of long-term bonds of the Republic of Serbia in principle. The vote was 160, against no one, abstentioned no one, all voted, a total of 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the draft law on the first emissions of long-term bonds of the Republic of Serbia in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. Pursuant to Article 4(1) of the amendment, the Legislative Committee has tabled. The Finance Committee accepted this amendment, and the government's representative agreed to the amendment at the meeting of the Finance Committee. Since the amendments to the Legislative Committee have been adopted by the Government and the Finance Committee, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Anyone else want to talk about the bill in particular? He doesn't want to. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a search of the bill in particular. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. We've got quorum. ) I put to the vote the draft law on the first emissions of long-term bonds of the Republic of Serbia as a whole. For 156, no one, abstentioned, two voted, a total of 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law on the first emissions of long-term bonds of the Republic of Serbia. As the National Assembly adopted the Bill on the First Emissions of Long-term Bonds of the Republic of Serbia in general, I note that the amendments proposed by the Legislative Committee to the text of the Law will be introduced in order to clarify and technical improvement of the text of the Law contained in the report of the Legislative Committee, which was agreed by the proposing representative at the Committee's session. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLACES ON ACCIASES AND ON TRADE You have adopted the bill, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received a report from the Finance Committee, which has adopted the bill in principle and in particular and proposes to the National Assembly to adopt it. You have received a report from the Legislative Committee, which accepted the bill in principle and in particular, by proposing that in Article 1 of the words "City's Parliament" be replaced by the words "the city of Belgrade". This proposal of the Legislative Committee was agreed by a representative of the proposings at the Committee's session. At the session of the Legislative Committee, the opinion was set out by MP Milan Mikovic. I'm opening a principled search. The proposing representative has already talked about this law. Does anyone want a word again? He doesn't want to. ) Does MP Milan Mikovic, who has issued an opinion at the session of the Legislative Committee, want a word? The emissary is not present in the O.R. Do any of the MPs want a word? There's a word from MP Zoran Trninic.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-13-0.u2156	Dear President, honourable MPs, the other day in "Blac" or "The Voice of the Public" came up with a bomb title: "Belgrade is reduced to the level of the local community". In the text itself, one of the city's leaders in Belgrade, commenting on today's Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Excises and Tax on Transport, is crying over the fate that the Government of People's Unity is making it impossible for them to pay a 3% fee, as they have done so so far. In doing so, the gentleman offended the local community institution, because it is known as an institution that, unlike the current city government, takes care of all the vital interests of the citizens in the territory it covers. And as the city leaders used before the Socialist elections, which will immediately be abolished, and after the elections and the coming to power and their tax, Belgrade residents know best. To remind me, the City Traffic Belgrade has reached a record 300 of around 1,150 buses in the day-to-day drive, during their government, which is 400% down. This points to their consistent application of the law so far, which says that the fees are used for the rehabilitation and economic-financial consolidation of public utility companies, and that fact alone is enough for the adoption of the law that is ahead of us. The announced and promoted assistance in driving units from their ingades is all that remains -- that's what we, the Socialists, have been claiming since the beginning -- a means to deceive the people. The city's cleanliness is in a better condition than the City Transport Company. The quality of service reached, the number of containers and the state in which it is best known to the Belgraders. The Belgrade citizens don't know, and the city leaders have to tell them, for which reasons they have received over 100 new workers from the same private firm with the Stargare takeover contract in the last two months, and that a large number of cleanliness workers are on forced vacation. Belgrade citizens in the last three months see on their skin how much of the tax is invested in water supply facilities. The Belgrade citizens do not know, and should know, at what prices is done and what little has been done, how many six water drain valves have been paid in Bežianjska Kosa, how many apartments are allocated for the resettlement and where and for what purposes the funds have gone from the mandatory purchase of apartments. I know it takes a lot of funding to fund a 100% increase in administration and five times the number of officials in the city and city municipalities. Also, I know it costs a lot of going to NATO villains' feet to get instructions on how to betray your country and people, how to continue your internal aggression, when their outsider is already broken by the magnificent resistance of all or almost all citizens. They once again showed that the pre-election promises served only to deceive the people, and the power to fill their own pockets and their loved ones. They do not know what is the restoration of the country, development and reform, but only the restoration of their illegal incomes, the development of their private enterprise and betrayal. That's why I support the bill, convinced that I represent the real interest of the vast majority of Belgraders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-13-0.u2157	Thank you. He has the word National MP Dragan Ljubojevic. Let the People's MP Milovan Đuric be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-13-0.u2158	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, two million residents of the city of Belgrade, or two million, are those who are sentenced to life in Belgrade. It may sound harsh to you this term "defended to life in Belgrade", but indeed one who has lived in a city where for several years the Serbian Renewal Movement has no other way to understand and feel that life than as a kind of difficult prison. We witness every day various criminal corruption affairs, abuse of positions by the leaders of the city of Belgrade. The latest examples of the City Transport Company and the Public Municipal Company "Belgrade Voda" represent the best evidence that my claims are correct. We still remember the four-day collapse of the City Transport Company, i.e. public transport in the city of Belgrade, when in a two-million-dollar town, practically, public transport absolutely did not work. If the Serbian government hadn't imposed temporary measures at that time, if it hadn't established direct management of the City Transport Company, it would have been certain that the City Transport Company would not have been able to train it for some long time. The only and only reason for the poor functioning of municipal services in the city of Belgrade is because of the incompetence and incompetence, the indifference of the head of the City's Assembly to solve these problems. I underline again, the best example is the City Transport Company, because after establishing new leadership, city traffic in Belgrade is quite solid and is working better every day. Indeed, realistic expectations have been made that by the end of autumn those promises that the new management of the City Transport Company had made - that the City Transport Company and public transport in Belgrade would function quite normally and return to the level of several years ago. Also, we are witnessing that a month and a half ago in a two-million-dollar town, at temperatures between 350 and 40 0, even over 400, nearly half of Belgrade has no water. The main reason for this is that the heads of the City's Assembly tried in every way during their mandate to destroy the Public municipal enterprise "Belgrade Vodavod" to bring the price down before they privatise it. For this reason, the only possible solution for using this 3% tax is the draft law amending and supplementing the Excise and Sales Tax Act, because we are witnessing that this year's Executive Board of the City Assembly was unable to bring in a 3 per cent tax application. I note that this law stipulates that funds from a special fee are used to finance the municipal and traffic infrastructure programmes, not - how the heads of the City Assembly and the Serbian Renewal Movement are used - to fill their private accounts and some party promotions and party purposes. The Serbian Radical Party has advocated even more energetic measures when it comes to the Belgrade City Assembly, given that all conditions have been met to introduce temporary measures in Belgrade. However, as elections nearer, according to the Law on Local Self-Government, it is not possible to impose provisional measures at this time. The only possible way to make it possible for the better life of Belgrade citizens and for the better functioning and public enterprises in Belgrade is for this proposal to commit the Ministry of Local Self-Government and the Ministry of Construction to bring a programme for the use of this fee, so that the funds do not wait, that is, to be invested in the construction and financing of municipal infrastructure in the city of Belgrade. The elections ahead will best show the rule of the Serbian Renewal Movement in Belgrade, what their policy was. Serbian radicals are intensively preparing for the election. In the case of the municipality of Zemun, we have shown that the municipal problems of citizens can be very easily and very effectively solved if the local authorities, so those to whom citizens show confidence, have a basic goal: to solve citizens' problems, not to fill their own pockets and rob citizens' money as does the Serbian Renewal Movement.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-13-0.u2159	He has the word of the People's Messenger, Živorad Milosavljevic. Let the People's MP Alexander Djordjevic prepare himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-13-0.u2160	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we, the council members of the Assembly of the City of Belgrade and the MPs of the National Assembly of Serbia, know best how the city government works. From the very beginning, it's an erosion of power. The Socialist Party of Serbia in the Belgrade City Assembly makes objections at every session when it comes to city government. I must tell this opportunity that the municipal systems in Belgrade have not been functioning since the coming of the coalition "Together" to power. A special tax of 3%, which went to the Belgrade City Assembly in the past period, is being spent less and less each day for the development of municipal systems, or what is within the authority of the City Assembly. What has been happening in recent days has resulted in the introduction of a forced administration, practically by putting in charge of the Serbian Parliament at the GSP. The fact is that in these relations, when the city government or city administration does not perform its functions, it is impossible to transfer funds to the City Assembly just as well, when the scope of functions has been reduced. Also, the critical situation within the water pipeline is the reason that we need to bring these amendments and additions to the Excise and Transport Tax Act. I think we have only one effective operation ahead of us, that immediately after the adoption of this law the competent authorities, the competent ministries and the Government of the Republic of Serbia will bring the right programme, of course with the agreement that the city of Belgrade is scheduled. We have a construction season coming up, and I think local systems in the city of Belgrade have to be maintained, they have to be developed. I think this is how this assembly and we are showing concern here, when it comes to the city of Belgrade, that the municipal systems are functioning. This way, as it's been done so far, it didn't go well. It's the best mirror in the city. I think it's illusory to spend a lot of time on them today. We need to turn to the city of Belgrade, we need to turn to the Belgraders, and we need to solve municipal problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-13-0.u2161	There's a word from MP Alexander Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-13-0.u2162	Dear President, honourable MPs, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Excises and Tax on Transport is a necessary amendment to the Law in the part in which this legal inadequacy was proved to be used by the local authorities of the SPO and the Coalition "Together" in Belgrade and in municipalities in which the coalition "Together" in power. The government has proposed to amend the law to the National Assembly in that part that regulates the orientation of funds for specific purposes. In practice, the need for the Republic of Serbia, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as the most responsible for the overall situation in the Republic, to adopt a programme on the basis of a proposal from the resolution ministries, the Ministry of Construction and the Ministry of Local Self-Government, in the light of the attached opinion of the Executive Committee of the City Assembly. Article 1 of this law stipulates that the orientation of funds from this fee from a special account is carried out precisely by the programme, on a proposal from the government of the Republic of Serbia's resolute ministries. In particular, Article 80a regulates the use of funds to finance the city of Belgrade's municipal infrastructure programme, as well as the continuation of the construction of the Belgrade Railway Node, as a capital facility of interest to the Republic of Serbia and to the capital of the Republic of Serbia. Also in Article 80a, the rehabilitation and economic-financial consolidation of public utility companies are regulated, in this case in Belgrade. A qualitative change in the law is seen in the fact that the tax money will be directed precisely and precisely by the government of the Republic of Serbia, without the possibility of local self-government changing the purpose of the funds, that is, in this case the capital is concerned, to prevent further abductions and theft of officials of the Serbian Renewal Movement, or officials of the Belgrade City Assembly, with a clear aim to consolidate public utility companies in Belgrade. This could be seen in the case of the GSP, when local self-government in Belgrade and municipalities in which the SP and DS are in power, means traitor parties, where they are in power, these are municipalities of great importance in Belgrade, these are rich municipalities for which the coalition parties mentioned practically did nothing. At Chukarica, Palilula, Rakovica, at Voždovac, Zvezdovec, Starička, Starička Grad, Savavac, Vračar and Mladenovac, during their four-year term in Belgrade, no capital facility was built. That is the information citizens of Belgrade and Serbia should hear from this pay phone. As a council member in the Belgrade Assembly and a folk MP in the Serbian Parliament, I will mention the fact that, say, the current government in the Belgrade municipality of Čukarica has publicly admitted in its annual report, for the past year, that of 108 of the positions it was scheduled to operate, that it has not made a single position in the territory of the 21st local community. It speaks of the nature of the SPO and DS authorities at Chukarica, and so is the other municipalities in Belgrade where they are in power. If no one metre of sewerage, waterway, is done for a four-year term, the traffic station is not evaluated, the issue of the SPO government's character in Belgrade is raised. Apparently, the developmental queen of Belgrade's capital has been violated. It has been marred, primarily by the lack of care of a high-profile SPO political group, which has used its mandate in Belgrade for its personal wealth and abuse of functions and positions. At this point, I can conclude that the citizens of Belgrade did what they certainly didn't deserve. Therefore, the Serbian government's moves towards amending the law, which the assembly will adopt at this session, are guaranteed for the consolidation and development of Serbia's capital, Belgrade. I hope that after these legal projects have been passed in the National Assembly, it will change. On the issue of local self-government, I also hope that it will never again come to the situation that those who have not done anything in the capital for their term of office for four years will rule out those vital issues that are most important for the life of citizens in the capital. Finally, I would say that this amendment to the Law on Excises and Tax on Transport is a necessary amendment to the Law and the Government of the Republic of Serbia has made the right move to propose to the Serbian Parliament that such an amendment of the Law be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-13-0.u2163	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm finishing the initial search. I ask the MPs to set up a quorum, put their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Act on Excise and Tax on Transport, in principle. For 154, against one, no one abstained, one did not vote, a total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly adopted the draft law amending and supplementing the Excise and Transport Tax Act in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. Does anyone want to talk about the bill in particular? He doesn't want to. ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a search of the bill, in particular. I ask the MPs to place their cards in the MPs' units to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Excise and Sales Tax Act in general. For 157, against one, the abstentions were not voted by two, a total of 160 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted, by majority, the draft law amending and supplementing the Excise and Transport Tax Act. Since the National Assembly adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Excises and Tax on Transport in Wholes, I note that the draft Legislative Committee on Amendment to Article 1 contained in the report of the Legislative Committee, which was agreed by a representative at the Committee's session, will be introduced into the text of the Law on Excises and Tax on Transport. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Public Entrepreneurship and Obligation of Activity from the General Interest You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments from MP Dravir Marusic. You have received the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received a report from the Transport and Connections Committee, which has adopted the bill in principle and in particular and proposes to the National Assembly to accept the bill in general. You have received a report from the Legislative Committee, which has adopted the draft law in principle and in particular by proposing that, in order to specify, legal and technical improvements and the harmonisation of certain provisions, the following Articles should be amended in the text of the Law proposal: Article 3(2); Article 15(1) and (2); Article 20(1); Article 27(1) point 4; Article 31(1) and (3) and Article 34. With these proposals of the Legislative Committee, for precision, legal and technical improvement and mutual harmonisation of certain provisions, the Committee's representative agreed at the meeting. At the session of the Legislative Committee, the opinion was set out by MP Milan Mikovic. I'm opening a principled search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? He wants to. ) He has the word Ratko Marchetic, minister of traffic and connections in the government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-13-0.u2164	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the draft law on public enterprises in the exercise of the general interest, which the Government, as an authorised proposing, has delivered to the Assembly for adoption and adoption, will address some important issues in the functioning of public enterprises, which has been pointed out by the ten-year application of the existing and current law. The establishment and operation of public enterprises in the Republic is governed by the Law on Public Enterprises, which was adopted in 1990, and special laws regulate specific issues of the establishment and functioning of certain public enterprises: the Law on Electrical Businesses, the Law on Liaison Systems, the Law on Railways and others. According to the provisions of the applicable Public Enterprise Act, public undertakings are established to carry out economic activities of public interest and to carry out economic activities of strategic importance for the Republic.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-13-0.u2165	Please turn off your cell phones, interfere with the work of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-13-0.u2166	In 1996, the Company Act was adopted as a system law in the area of economy, which regulates the legal position of the company and its provisions apply to all forms of enterprise, except for undertakings from specific areas for which there is no specific regulation, such as specific rules for public undertakings. According to the law, public undertakings are a special form of enterprise established by a state, i.e. a unit of local self-government to carry out a general interest activity. It is also prescribed that, in addition to public enterprises, the activity of general interest can also be carried out by other forms of enterprise, which are governed by federal law governing the legal position of undertakings, forms of social capital in the form of a company, and form of a public undertaking only in terms of defining the concepts and bodies of the company. In view of the specificity of carrying out a general interest activity in relation to other economic activities, other than obtaining profits, there is an obligation to meet the needs of service users. It is necessary, independently of the form of organisation and property regime, to regulate a special legal regime for the authority of state and local self-government units in order to achieve the objectives of performance of general interest. Public enterprises are defined both by the concept and by the authorities and are not regulated by the establishment of public enterprises, and there is a need for the Republic to regulate public enterprises by its law. This law is not only a law governing the position of public enterprises, but also a law on the exercise of activity of general interest. The existing public enterprises in the Republic of Serbia are established, organised and operated only in principle and in the same principles, with a number of specificities that are not always based on technical and technological differences. The country's specific attitude is also in the protection of general interest and, as a rule, the state is very often late in ensuring the functioning of that activity, due to the normative solutions. Under the existing rules, the state does not have full insight, and is responsible for planning, development, distribution of profits and other areas of public business. At the level of the unit of local self-government, where general interests are to be achieved and where citizens should meet their needs as users of products and services, existing normative solutions only give exclusive authority to the state, i.e. the government as an executive body, to intervene in order to preserve functions that are irreplaceable to the conditions of life and the work of citizens. For years, we have witnessed a kind of erosion of the functioning of public utility companies in certain units of local self-government, where the funds are spent senselessly on the political elite, their promotion, films, travel abroad and other non-purpose needs. Dear People's MPs, for exceptional reasons, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has offered this proposal to law on public enterprises and to carry out activities of general interest, starting with the provisions of Articles 65 and 72. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which fully regulates the area. 1. Public undertakings, such as companies carrying out activities of general interest, whose founder is a unit of local self-government; 2. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff of the European Parliament and of the Council in accordance with Article 21 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005 (OJ L 348, 30.12.2013, p. 1). They guarantee the equality and responsibility of the various forms of organization of enterprises and entrepreneurs in the exercise of the general interest activity; 4. It prescribes a way of setting up a company. The founder is the Republic of Serbia, i.e. an autonomous province, and for the public utility of the unit of local self-government, regulates the content of the founding acts, uniform conditions for the exercise of the general interest, property of the public enterprise, liability for obligations, public enterprise bodies, appointment and resolution, work, general acts, registration in the court register, founding rights, promotion of labour and development, investment of capital, changes in activity, office, compensation for the use of goods of general interest; 5. In order to ensure the protection of general interest in public enterprises, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the competent authority of a unit of local self-government or autonomous province, with the consent of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, where the Republic is not the founder, gives consent to the Statute, the granting of guarantees, guarantees, deposits and other means of security, tariff, price decision, tariff system and other, the availability, supply, acquisition and establishment of assets of an undertaking of greater value which is in the direct function of carrying out its activity than the general act; 6. The exercise of general interest in other forms of undertakings that exercise a general interest in the Republic, i.e. a unit of local self-government or autonomous province, shall be ensured by giving consent to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or to the competent authority of a unit of local self-government or autonomous province, with the consent of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the Statute, tariff, except for decisions on prices of products and services at the federal level, other decisions in accordance with the Law governing and carrying out certain activities of general interest and contract; a proposal for granting consent to the Government of the Republic of Serbia shall be submitted to the competent ministry, and only to undertakings carrying out a general interest activity; 7. In the case of disturbances in the business of a public undertaking and undertakings with the majority participation of state capital that carry out the activity of general interest, the founder may take measures to ensure the conditions for the smooth functioning of the undertaking and the exercise of the activity for which the undertaking is established, unless the founding act governing the exercise of activity of the general interest is different, in particular - the change of the internal organisation of the undertaking, the resolution of the authority which appoints and appoints the temporary authorities of undertakings, the restriction of the rights of certain undertakings to come forward in legal traffic with third parties, the restriction on the right to the availability of certain assets in the state property, the other measures of a certain law governing the conditions and manner of exercise of activity of general interest and the founding act. When a disturbance in the business of a public enterprise, the founder of units of local self-government, or autonomous province, can result in a threat to the lives and health of people, and the competent authority - the founder - does not take the necessary measures, the Government of the Republic of Serbia may take the measures. 8. The transitional and final provisions stipulate that the founding bodies must comply with the provisions of this law within six months of the date of entry into force of this law, and in the case of public undertakings carrying out activities of general interest which constitute a single technical and technological system and subsidiaries whose founders are, the Government of the Republic of Serbia will establish ways to set up these undertakings. Other forms of enterprise and entrepreneurs will comply with trust and exercise contracts with this law within six months. On the date of entry into force of this law, existing public undertakings and companies with the majority participation of state capital cannot make payments for sponsorship, donation, humanitarian and sports activities, advertising, propaganda, representation, profits from the chairman of the board of directors, or compensation for board members, the fees of the president and members of the Supervisory Board, until they obtain the consent of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Dear MPs, this bill sets out in a unique way the area of public enterprises and the exercise of general interest in a clear and precise way, with demarcated rights and obligations, powers and responsibilities, and I call on you to adopt this proposal. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-13-0.u2167	Thank you. Does the MP who singled out his opinion want a word? He won't, because he's not here. He has the word of Minister Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-13-0.u2168	Dear fellow Members, the legal position of public enterprises in our legal system is one of the issues that have not been fully and consistently regulated until the adoption of this law. The Federal Company Act of 1996 established a public enterprise based on both property and criteria of public, general interest, and the Republic law on public enterprises, which will be invalid from today, did so only on the basis of the criteria of activity as basic and unique. That is why it was necessary to build legislation in order to regulate the legal position and status of public enterprises, at least to the extent that it was arranged for other forms of businesses - companies. The reason why the Republic Government is dealing with this issue today is not only in their concept and overall position. Public enterprises have great importance in our business system. Because of their number, and there are about 600, because of the volume of funds they use, that is to say, the activities they perform, general or public interest, participation in the social product, the number of employees in them, etc. In the modern world, public enterprises have proved to be one of the basic forms of economic and legal entities in achieving the increasingly numerous objectives that the modern state wants to achieve in economic, social and other areas of public life. These are those areas where it is necessary to ensure continued performance of the general, i.e. public interest and in which certain quality must be ensured in the performance of these activities. In addition, these are those areas where the interests of users of certain services, i.e. products or other principles relevant to the performance of certain activities, such as high degree of security, secrecy, etc., should be taken into account. For these reasons, it was necessary to pass this law which would clearly define public undertakings, the aim of their establishment, founders, management bodies, the specificity of the establishment process, the participation of employees, the integration of public enterprises through capital investments, the authorisation of founders and the distribution of profits. In modern systems we meet different definitions of public enterprises, different types, but everywhere is an important element of their concept, a goal that is intended to be achieved by setting up these companies. The main objective of setting up a company is certainly to gain profits, but in this group of companies, it is primarily the goal of achieving general interest. However, our reality shows, and I would particularly like to draw attention to this, that the lack of legal regulation in this area has led to the practice that a large number of public enterprises, under the pretext of achieving general objectives and the exercise of public interest, completely disregards the objective of achieving profit, i.e. that public enterprises have lost their obligation, if not to acquire that show of profits and its distribution with the participation of the founder - state. Of course, fully conscious of the fact that the profit is largely achieved on the monopoly, whether it is a monopoly position on the market or a natural monopoly, and by expanding its activity in areas that are perfectly reliable to say that they do not have the dots with the performance that these companies are founded for. The fact that these companies perform public functions served monopolization. However, under this law, the exercise of such a function will be made available to all who are qualified to carry out this work, and the public of doing such a function comes from its character and it is regulated by contractual relations. In this way, public affairs carried out under free market conditions, with a chance to lose such a job if not executed in a satisfactory manner. So the term - public, from the field of monopoly, is transferred to the field of market economy. The absence, on the other hand, of legal norms, which would regulate the rights and duties of public undertakings in relation to the use, management and availability of funds, which are in state property, was a major legal gap in our legislation. This law eliminates the gap to the full. According to this legal solution, the property of a public undertaking and of all other companies carrying out a general interest activity constitute the right of ownership of movable and immovable matters, financial assets, securities of value and other property rights, including the right to use goods in the state property, i.e. goods of general interest. These companies may also use State-owned assets, but only in accordance with the law governing the exercise of the general interest, the founding act and the contract. Public undertakings and companies with the majority participation of state capital have, therefore, their assets and their assets in accordance with the federal company law. A big and very important newspaper, which should not be clouded by the daily-political story that this law is about signing a representation account in the government, not in public enterprises, is the next - the state capital in public enterprises is divided into actions and stakes and is registered in the register. In this act on the assessment of the value of state capital and its demonstration in actions, as well as the programme and decision on a possible transformation of property, the government of the Republic of Serbia agrees. The agreement of the founders with the decision on ownership structure, which is not the case in any other form of enterprise, is necessary for at least two reasons - firstly, the distinction between social and state capital will take place on the edge which constitutes the border of meeting the infrastructure and the means of performing the tasks which have the character of public functions, and secondly, the very word - the assessment of the value of capital - contains possible arbitration, regardless of the accuracy of the methodology used in determining the value of capital. It is a guarantee that infrastructure facilities will remain state-owned and be exempt from privatisation. This removes any doubt as to the obligation of public enterprises to carry out an assessment of the value of capital, while the state will gain at the same time insight into the values it holds. This is also an opportunity for a clear mutual distinction between property, used by certain public enterprises, and at the same time, a great obligation for the Property Directorate to carry out its obligations under the Law on Assets in the property of the Republic. The law also contains certain measures, i.e. powers, according to the public undertakings at its disposal, but I stress, not as the owner of these companies, but as the holder of public-law powers, which need to ensure the achievement of general interests. These powers are in the form of the so-called so-called "supervisory powers". previous controls, which are looked at in that the Government of the Republic of Serbia gives consent to the statutes, constitutional changes, investment of capital, availability of property of greater value, not just alienation, but also procurement, etc. The paper is an obligation for public enterprises to provide for precise items of income and expenditure through the annual business programme, in particular for the purposes of aid, sports activities, propaganda and representation, as well as criteria for determining the profits of the managing and supervisory authorities. The government also agrees on a decision on the distribution of profits, which puts public enterprises and in practice into the role of achieving the goals of the state, not only in the economic, but also in the social, cultural and sports sphere, e.g. The corporate administration must share the fate of the employees. Public enterprises simply have to share the fate of the state, share with it all the difficulties, but share both success and profit. To date, it was realized that the state is stingy and that its public enterprises are broad arms, sometimes wasteful. Today, this government shows by this law that its basic principle is household behavior and that it will also be able to set priorities for public enterprises when it gives, but on the principle of clean bills and in the general interest. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-13-0.u2169	Thank you. Since we only have a few minutes until the end of this afternoon, I'm taking a break by 2:30. [[Resume session - 14.40 hours]] Dear People's MPs, we continue our work. He has the word of Energy and Industry Minister Tomovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-13-0.u2171	Dear Mr. President, the esteemed presidency, honourable MPs, the aim of my announcement for discussion is not to determine who it is, since when and what ideas it has, and even less to point out what it is, what it is, and whose contribution to the establishment of the Law on Public Enterprises and the exercise of activity of general interest. My intention is to present my opinion on the bill of law, which the Government of the People's Unity has sent to this assembly and its MPs. I believe that the adoption of this law is a function of ensuring more complete and better conditions for the continued and quality of performance of general interest. Basically, two are the basic reasons why it is necessary to approach the adoption of this law. The first reason is a normative nature and consists in the need to bring the Republic Law on Public Enterprises into line with the Federal Company Act. The non-compliance of the Law on Public Enterprises with the Federal Company Act concerns, above all, the definition of a public enterprise. According to the Law on public undertakings, public undertakings have companies that carry out economic activity of general interest, regardless of the founder, so it is prescribed that public undertakings can operate in state, social, private and other forms of property. According to the Company Act, however, the status of a public enterprise is achieved by that legal entity that cumulates two essential conditions. This is the performance of the general interest and the existence of founders, state or unit of local self-government, by providing for the possibility of carrying out activities of general interest and by other forms of enterprise, company and enterprise. The second issue, which has been regulated in different ways by those laws, is the issue of public undertakings authorities. According to the Law on Public Enterprises, public undertakings authorities are the Management Board and Director, with the possibility of education of the Board of Directors and Supervisory Board, and company workers participate in management and decision-making, in accordance with law and statute. The Company Act provides for the mandatory existence of three public undertakings bodies - the Management Board, the Supervisory Board and the Director, with the mandatory participation of staff in the Management and Supervisory Board up to a number and the possibility of education of the Executive Board of Directors. In addition, it is important to note that the Company Act contains only two provisions on public undertakings, which basically means that only the basis for specific laws that will be regulated closer to all other issues related to this form of enterprise is established. Another reason for the adoption of this law is the content of nature and refers to the need to regulate the conditions for the exercise of general interest, not only when these activities are carried out by public undertakings, but also other forms of organisation. It is necessary, however, to prescribe a special legal regime for all undertakings carrying out general interest operations, regardless of the form and the property regime of undertakings, in order to ensure certain powers of the state and the unit of local self-government according to these companies, which is the law and done. As a result, this law, which regulates the position of public enterprises, is also a law on the exercise of activity of general interest. It is important that this law, among other things, distinguish the property of a public undertaking, which is in principle the property of a company and which is responsible for its obligations, and state property over a public enterprise. A solution is given whereby state capital is divided into shares or a share of certain nominal values and is entered in the register, making this form of enterprise transparent for property changes depending on market conditions. It regulates the distribution of profits, which provides state control in the distribution of profits in all public enterprises. The obligation to define and present the government of Serbia with the annual public enterprise business programme, thus ensuring the state's insight into the resources available to the public enterprise, conditioning the investment of capital and the establishment of dependent capital companies by public undertakings through the consent of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is ensured by defining the position of public enterprises in the proposed way, the independence of these businesses in business and the availability of assets, and the mechanism of control of that business and the availability of funds to the extent necessary. The law also lays down conditions for the exercise of activity of general interest by other forms of enterprise, enterprise and entrepreneurs. In this respect, it is prescribed that other forms of enterprise, part of undertakings and entrepreneurs can carry out a general interest activity, that the competent authority has entrusted them with the exercise of the general interest and that they have concluded a contract with the Government of the Republic of Serbia or with the executive bodies of the unit of local self-government, or autonomous province, with the consent of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which regulates the rights, obligations and responsibilities in carrying out activities of general interest. Where action of general interest is carried out by other forms of enterprise and undertaking, the achievement of general interest shall be ensured through the Institute of Understanding on the Statute, tariff and other decisions of importance for the performance and activity. The government of the Republic of Serbia, or the competent authority of the unit of local self-government, gives consent, with the consent of the government. A contract which is bound to be concluded when the activity of general interest is carried out by other forms of enterprise and undertaking in the function of protecting the general interest and the interests of citizens and other entities, as a user of the products and services of that undertaking. The binding character that the act has for foreign signatories is a guarantee that entrusted transactions will be carried out in an appropriate manner. On the basis of this, I am of the opinion that the proposed text of the law meets the basic objectives of its adoption, which is to create a systemically decorated environment for the uninterrupted and quality of action of general interest, primarily by public enterprises, but also by other organisational forms that carry out this work, and in this sense I propose that this bill be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-13-0.u2172	Thank you. Stevo Dragisic, head of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary club, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-13-0.u2173	Ladies and gentlemen, this bill fully regulates the way public enterprises are set up, operate and act of general interest. Indeed, I do not think that this law has missed any important element relating to the establishment and functioning of public enterprises, the conditions under which it will carry out its work and certainly did not fail to define which activities are of general interest. In one legislative project, we can in a comprehensive way regulate what activities are carried out by a public undertaking, in which way, under what conditions and, most importantly, the rights and obligations of the founders in control, i.e. the authority of the founders in the control of public enterprises and other forms of enterprises that carry out their activity of general interest. Before me, Mr. Secretary spoke of all the points of this law that regulate founding rights, investment in capital, distribution of profits, improvement of labour and development and so on. What should be pointed out in particular, as a step forward in relation to the existing legal solutions that have regulated this area, should certainly highlight the rights and powers of the founders. Article 25 states that in the event of a disturbance in the business of a public undertaking, the founder may take measures to ensure conditions for the smooth functioning of the undertaking and the performance of the activity for which the undertaking is established. In particular, it emphasises the changes in the internal organisation of the public undertaking, the resolution of the authorities and the appointment of the temporary bodies of undertakings, the restriction of the rights of certain parts of the company to enter into legal traffic with third parties, the restriction on the right to dispose of certain means in the state property and other measures laid down by law governing the conditions and manner of exercise of activity of general interest by a founding act. I especially stress something we've already had in recent practice. When the operating disturbances of a public enterprise, the founder of units of local self-government, and the unit of local self-government fail to take the timely measures set out in Title 1, the government of the Republic of Serbia can take the measures. This is closely linked to the Law on Assets owned by the Republic of Serbia, which states that all public utility assets, units of local self-government and, in general, all property managed by the local self-government of the Republic of Serbia and that, based on that law, and now on these legal provisions, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as owner and as the most responsible state body, can take measures to ensure the normal business of the public enterprise. That's the case we had with the Public Enterprise City Traffic Belgrade. Not only has there been a disturbance in the business of the public company, but it is freely said that it has been systematically destroyed for the past few years, from 1997 to today, or to the introduction of provisional measures. The goal was purely material. The aim was to destroy the Public Enterprise of City Traffic Belgrade, to disabling itself to carry out public transport in Belgrade on its own, through the introduction of private carriers high-ranking officials of the city's Assembly enriched in as short a time as possible. It is a public secret that many of them had in private transport several of their buses. There are indications and speculations that some of the buses from the City Transport Company's rolling stock ended up in the hands of private carriers. Some of them did not invest a single dollar in buying new buses, but the new buses the City bought and gave to the City Transport Company ended up in some private businesses. It was a clean robbery, the destruction of the City Transport Company and the possibility of privileged high-ranking officials of the City Assembly reaching for a very short time of high earnings. This case is as if it describes the final position of Article 25. We hope that there will be no future opportunity for anyone to use the authority of this attitude. We hope that after the local elections, which will take place in a few months, there will be no opportunity for mercenaries of Western countries, robbing cities in which they are in power, creating high profits and destroying municipal systems in cities in which they are in power. Point 16 of Chapter II of this Act refers to ensuring the protection of general interest. And here, in a very precise way, are certain powers and powers of the Serbian government to ensure the protection of general interest. The government of the Republic of Serbia agrees on a number of general acts that bring public enterprises, the statute of a public enterprise, the decision on prices, the tariff system, the acts on general conditions for the delivery of products and services, investment of capital, status changes and the like. In this way, the Government of the Republic of Serbia puts under direct control the exercise of public undertaking obligations, the determination of the prices of services and products provided by these companies, all in order to protect the interests of citizens who use these services, or products. In this way, the government of the Republic of Serbia will have the opportunity to implement more closely the economic measures it sets itself, which require public enterprises to participate. Consistent implementation of this article of the law, the Government of the Republic of Serbia will ensure that any economic measure prescribed by it will be consistently implemented through public enterprises, without thinking and without the risk that, possibly by some wrong move, these public enterprises will fail to fulfil their obligations under the implementation of these economic measures. As a special step forward in putting the business of a public enterprise under strict control of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Article 34 should be pointed out. Article 34 says that with the date of entry into force of the law, existing public enterprises and companies with the majority participation of state capital cannot make payments for sponsorship, donations, humanitarian, sports and similar activities, advertising, propaganda, representation, for the president of the board of directors, or compensation for the work of board members, the remuneration of the president and members of the Supervisory Board, until they obtain the consent of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. For this member of the law, if it is looked at and compared to the previous three laws that this assembly adopted at today's session, it can be said that this member of the law is advocating the functioning of a public enterprise in these areas that I have read with the economic situation in which we are located. The government of the Republic of Serbia will in future approve of the payments of funding for sponsorship, for donation, for humanitarian and sports and similar activities, so all activities that cannot be considered a public enterprise's activity. So, all that is not the activity of the public enterprise, which is not in the founding act as a description of the public enterprise's activity, will have to have the previous consent of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We are sure that in this way many public companies will be more rationally spending their resources, that payments on these grounds will be much lower than before. On the case of Belgrade, I can say that public utility companies have been abused for this very purpose, that public utility companies in Belgrade have been paid funds, allegedly for humanitarian purposes, for sports activities, for sponsorship, for donations and so on. But these were mostly activities that concerned the interests of the SPI, as ruling parties at the city level. Since the Government of the Republic of Serbia will in future make all these programmes, pay off funds based on these bases, control and give consent, there should be no doubt that the outflow of money or we can say money laundering through these payments will be reduced to the least possible extent, practically avoided entirely and that the funds saved on this basis will be able to be used to improve the performance of these public enterprises.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-13-0.u2174	Thank you. He has the word Milos Nesovic, a National MP. Let Zoran Nikolic, chairman of the Committee prepare himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-13-0.u2175	Dear Mr. President, esteemed ministers, members of the government of the National Unity of the Republic of Serbia, honourable MPs. On the basis of years of practice, I would like to point out some more recent aspects of the bill that we are discussing today. Our main goal today is to ensure the organisation, development and functioning of the economic structure, which deals with this activity at the level of legal, economic and technological standards, which will surely ensure quality, lasting and reliable provision of services and products of general interest. The regulatory framework of business activities, which are defined in the bill as activities of particular interest, and the organisation of the activities of these activities at all levels of the state community and of the entire economic market, equally provides for the possibility of all structures of the population, economic organisations, state bodies and all other institutions to use all the advantages offered in the field of activity of general interest, bringing global space closer to our perspectives, technological achievements to our needs, cultural and scientific assets of modern civilization to our knowledge. For the first time in legislative practice, in a unique way, conditions are regulated for the exercise of the general interest, regardless of the legal status and legal character of the property of the operators carrying out these activities. This in terms of planning and development, product and service standards and responsibilities for performance, which provides a greater guarantee to users in terms of quality, timeliness of services, modernisation, diversity of new services, monitoring of modern marketing trends, etc. At the same time, the legislative project foresees the mutual security of founders and economic operators dealing with the activity of the burden of interest to carry out this activity reliably. By prescribing obligations to conclude a mutual contract, which regulates conditions and other issues of importance for the performance of this activity, which is a major step towards world standards, recognised in economic and business definition and in structural activities. At the same time, the law defines legal mechanisms for the protection of the interests of users of services and products of general interest and the provision of legal, business and economic security of business holders in this activity, provided for by the founders to take measures for smooth functioning in the case of business disturbances in business entities, engaged in this activity, by giving consent by the founders to the strategic decisions of the provider of these services and products, a control that ensures the rational use of available financial resources priority in the function of the particular activity. The founders of business entities engaged in this activity, under the new law, assume a very active role and adequate responsibility for the formation of economic infrastructure, for the exercise of this activity, development strategy, business policy, business stability and rational use of available resources. This corresponds most to users and providers of services and products in the field of this activity. Generally observed, the proposal for a new law provides institutionally all infrastructure segments according to modern, business and market principles in this activity of vital importance for the country's citizens and economy, while at the same time stimulating private initiative and starting ownership transformation processes. It is our assessment that the legal project also allows for the necessary business autonomy for the organisation and operational management of activities of general interest, stimulation and motivation of work, collective bargaining and implementation of labour-based rights and obligations, depending on the specific nature of the activity of general interest, which is carried out in business entities, which has created a wide business space for creative work and business management initiative, management structures of experts and specialists in the company, as well as operators of operations, but also for the responsibility for business results achieved in the affairs of great importance for each of our citizens, every business and state organisation in general. By adopting this legislative proposal, we will enter into a new development stage of the organisation and the functioning of our economic structure in action of general interest, which will be a great incentive to improve our current, economic and social environment. Finally, I can say that the Telecom Serbia AD telecommunications company, which was formed on 9 June 1997, operates precisely under these conditions, with only one difference which is controlled by, of course, shareholders, capital owners. I have the impression that the law is not sufficiently understood and that it is considered, when it comes to various donations, sponsorship, advertising, etc. That every approval requires waiting in the government in front of an office to approve it. I don't see it that way. I want to say it's from practice and I say it's good. To build a budget and create a business plan in Telekom Srbija, funds are allocated by each directorate and define the jobs to be done and realised with the funds. That doesn't go away. This Board of Directors, i.e. the statute authorities, approves and so is done. Thank you very much, I suggest we pass this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-13-0.u2176	There is a word from MP Zoran Nikolic, chairman of the Legislative Committee. Let the vice president of the Dragoljub Stamenkovic National Assembly prepare.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-13-0.u2177	The Honorable Presidency, honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the National Assembly Legislative Committee adopted the proposal for a law on public enterprises and on the exercise of activity of general interest, with certain clarifications of the legal technical nature with which the legislator agreed, and they became an integral part of the text. Before I say a few words about the law itself, allow me to make a personal point of view, i.e. believing that public enterprises, as a form of organisation for the exercise of activity of general interest, have absolutely justified their existence by their work and engagement so far. The success of a system can best be determined when it is exposed to difficulties. During the period when our country was most difficult, during the barbaric NATO aggression, public enterprises and all employees in them were with our leadership, the military and the MUP, the headquarters of successful defences, providing in the most extreme conditions very successfully the different needs of a vast number of Serbian citizens. As a result, the most significant parts of most public enterprises and were likely the common target of aggressor bombs. In the phase of the accelerated restoration of our country, major damage in public enterprises, measured by hundreds of millions, or billions of dollars, are successfully resolved with relatively little money, but with a lot of enthusiasm and expertise. This kind of work makes a full contribution to the struggle to maintain our country's economic stability. The proposal for a law on public undertakings and the exercise of activity of general interest provides for a uniform legal regime for all public undertakings, regardless of who their founder is and therefore: the right to dispose of assets, i.e. the distribution of profits, the jurisdiction of the company authorities and the way in which they are appointed, the authority of the state, or the unit of local self-government, with regard to granting consent to certain company acts and so on. Since the bill provides for the harmonisation of the founding acts of existing public undertakings with the provisions of the law, it provides for conditions for the removal of certain differences in the legal situation of existing undertakings, especially those whose legal position is now governed by special republican laws. These differences can be seen, both as regards the competence for the designation of individual bodies of those undertakings, the type of bodies, and as regards the competence of the Management Boards and the authority of the national authorities with regard to the granting of consent to the acts of those committees. For example, while other public enterprises, whose position has been regulated by the Republic's laws, are provided for by the authorities of these companies to be the board of directors and directors, some companies also provide for the education of the board of directors and the organised composition of that committee, such as the oil industry of Serbia. While in other public enterprises of republican importance, the Director-General is appointed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Director-General of the Oil Industry of Serbia appoints the National Assembly on a proposal from the government. The responsibility of the boards of directors of these companies is also differently arranged. For example, the Law establishing the Public Business of the Oil Industry of Serbia provides for the Management Board of the company to adopt the Statute and the Decision on the tariff system with the consent of the Government, and independently makes decisions on the adoption of plans, development and work programmes. However, the PTT Serbia Management Board brings a long-term and central development plan and an annual programme of business with the government's consent, and no agreement on the statute is provided. The Electricity Act provides for the Administrative Board of the Public Enterprise of Elektroprivreda Serbia to adopt a statute with the consent of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The Board of Directors shall decide independently on the reduction and increase of the principal, the establishment of undertakings and investment decisions, while the EPS Management Board may decide on these issues only with the consent of the Government. For the status changes and for the change of activity of some companies, such as the example of the Serbian-Serbishum company, it requires the government's consent, while for other companies such consent is not foreseen. I have cited these examples to indicate what existing differences exist in the existing legal regime that provides and determines the organisation and work of public enterprises. However, since the proposal for this law is in a unique way to regulate and ensure the protection of general interest in the business of all public enterprises, regardless of who their founder is, by giving consent to the Government for those enterprises whose founder is the Republic, or by giving consent to the authority of the local self-government unit for those companies whose founder is local self-government, thus providing legal assumptions for the unique, or equal position of undertakings, as well as the same relation of the founders to those undertakings, and thus for their stability and further development, which is sufficient reasons for the adoption of this law and its implementation in life.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-13-0.u2178	He has the word of Vice-President of the National Assembly Dragoljub Stamenkovic, and let the MP Dragan Colic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-13-0.u2179	Ladies and gentlemen, a public company is a company that carries out a measure of general interest, which is founded by a state or a unit of local self-government. The objectives of the establishment of a public undertaking are to ensure that the public undertaking is able to carry out its activities permanently of general interest and to meet the needs of the users of products and services neatly. The goal of setting up every company is to earn profits. In public enterprises, profit is not the sole and primary objective, but the meeting of the citizens' permanent needs. For the very definition and for the reasons for the establishment of public enterprises, it becomes clear why the government of the Republic of Serbia is so interested in monitoring and controlling the work of public enterprises. We think this law should have been passed much earlier. If we now see what is the situation in public enterprises, which have established units of local self-government, in which the former Coalition "Together" is run by the government, we will find it much clearer. These public enterprises, at least in Nis, and I believe that in many other cities and municipalities, serve to hire the wives of city officials, so in Nis, the president of the City Assembly set the example and hired his wife, followed by other officials from both parties that exercise power in Nis. Practically, it's a job grab. Then they wouldn't be able to say they're a thrifty government, because they don't have cell phones bills, they don't have bills, and they don't have representation fees. Namely, their mobile phone bills and representation costs are paid by public companies whose founder is local self-government units. There's a chaotic situation in these companies. They are ruined and are on the verge of collapse, and all solutions are required to increase the price of services. While the losses in Nis are in water supply in the transmission network over 50%, for them is a way to solve problems by increasing the price for water consumption. They've been boasting for months that they've received oil from the "oil for democracy" programme, that it was free, and they're asking for a price hike from two and a half dinars to eight dinars per square metre of heating surface. For them there is no general interest, for them there is only a way to gain profit and how to spend that profit for private purposes. As other municipal public enterprises are increasingly falling, one system is increasingly developing and employing more and more people. It's the Info Nis, the system that includes "The People's News" and so on. NTV - low television. In addition to a large number of employees, the budgets primarily intended for the functioning of this information system are exceeded. Instead of having this information system, especially low television, fulfill its basic role, it means that, objectively and impartially informing citizens about events in the country and the city, we can see, for example, in the production of Veran Matic, a programme in which Serbs are responsible for all, in which the aggressor did not tear down bridges and business facilities in our country, but the government of the Republic of Serbia did so. On that television, you can often see Titus's youth, Azem Vlasi, who says all the worse Albanians from Kosovo were nice and good, that there are no separatists, but simply defend themselves against the repression of the government, police and military of Serbia and the SRJ. There you can also see Stipa Mesic, who accuses Serbs of all the evils in this world. Serbs killed, Serbs slaughtered, Serbs destroyed everyone in the former Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. For them are the good guys and Clinton and Solana and Blair, and the best governments are the governments of Germany, Great Britain, because sometimes they give about a thousand or a hundred containers of garbage disposal, and the governments of those countries that sent the bombers, who only killed a dozen citizens in Nis, are already forgotten, because these are their friends who give them some church. We hope that this law, the new law that is passed on to public enterprises, will affect the situation at least to be resolved, so that there will be no major collapse, and for a few months we will suffer. And I hope that they will never again be in a position to exercise power in any unit of local self-government, and that it will take a lot of time to repair everything they've destroyed. The Serbian Radical Party supports the bill and we urge all MPs to vote for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-13-0.u2180	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Dragan Colic, and let the MP Dražimir Marusic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-13-0.u2181	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, we have before us a bill on public enterprises proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the National Assembly. As an MP for the Serbian Radical Party, I will vote in favour of the law because it finally introduces order and discipline in the area of public enterprises' functioning. The non-domestic business of certain public enterprises, the arbitrary rise in prices, which directly affects the emergence of inflation, sometimes the demining of the government's efforts to preserve citizens' standards, has been a characteristic of the past period. In the situation when citizens' social claims grew, there was also a phenomenon of wasteful behaviour based on the monopoly position of public enterprises and the non-domestic business of state money. Instead of focusing the extra money achieved on paying off the child's leftover supplements, maternity supplements, farm pensions, money was often channeled by unreasonable policies for something that Serbian citizens had no use for. There was no desire, no ability, no hearing to solve the social problems of the citizens. The adoption of the law on public enterprises brings it under strict government control and prevents the emergence of wasteful and self-will by individual public companies managers. Excess financial resources will be used for the social needs of citizens. In the social sphere, this law will produce the most positive effects. As an MP for the Serbian Radical Party with great satisfaction, I will vote that the law on public enterprises is passed, and I am leaving this booth with a great sense of satisfaction that we have done something that will be in the service of the interests of the Serbian citizens and will be at the benefit of our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-13-0.u2182	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dražimir Marusic, and let Vojin Veljkovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-13-0.u2183	Dear President, dear colleagues, we have before us a draft law that practically represents one codification of everything called the general interest and what is called municipal enterprises and public enterprises. We are practically the solutions offered here today in several laws, which regulated an extremely important matter that regulates the functioning and life and directly concerns the lives and standards of citizens and, practically, the management and management of large assets, whose importance is invaluable treasure, practically, of interest to the citizens of the entire country. What is the basic value of this law? The basic value of this law is that these basic terms are distinguished. Therefore, the founding rights and rights of societies as a whole, organised either at the level of the Republic, or at the level of units of local self-government and the exercise of those functions in what sense states, or local units, establish their own enterprises. This also regulates the issue of organ functioning, which is being regulated uniquely for the first time. So far we have had the practice to appoint them founder, to appoint them a board of directors or someone else, so we get one comprehensive solution with absolute control and order of interest, normally and with other functions of the founders of tariff control, price, program development of public enterprises and enterprises of general interest. So this law is put into the development function of the entire community. Its function is and I would really welcome it from the point of view of the Socialist Party, its codification, and it is normal that through these provisions every unit of local self-government, i.e. The state uses its advantages in the function of direct country development, not to be used as it is used in some other alienation environments, for the adoption, not to say for theft, for abuse and all that is present, unfortunately, on a scene like this. One good part of the citizens is trying to bring what has been destroyed, which has been destroyed by a criminal NATO aggression, back into normal function, and others abuse it in an inappropriate way, in other words criminal. From that point of view, I support this law and I propose that we adopt it, with the understanding and gratitude of the Government of the Republic of Serbia for the proposed amendments, which only complement something that was envisaged when the law was passed.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-13-0.u2184	Thank you. The People's Messenger Vojin Veljkovic has the word, and let Zivko Selaković be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-13-0.u2185	Ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of this, as well as other laws, is a turning point, the beginning of systematic prevention of abuse and crime. I would also say the start of a consistent implementation of the Serbian Radical Party programme through the work of the Government of National Unity. Working in the government of national unity, the Serbian Radical Party is not only implementing its programme, but also making pre-election promises. Someone's gonna say it's slow. True, but speed or slowness, I recall, dictate, above all, the results of the election, then the situation in which the country is located, certainly not by the guilt of Serbian radicals, and ultimately many other factors. I don't want to pick them all up. This law prevents looting and wasteing of non-national property concentrated in public enterprises, and by placing certain powers on the Government of National Unity, it provides control over the property. Someone will say that this reduces the rights of local self-government, as well as other public enterprises outside the jurisdiction of municipalities. Maybe? But it is important here to point out that this law prevents abuse, creates a climate for the stabilisation of the system, which is the task of our MPs. Of course, I speak for Serbian radicals. I believe the stability of this country is wanted by colleagues from other parliamentary groups. I'm going to refer specifically to a member of this 34th law. I think he represents the essence of the whole thing. No more directing money into illegal party funds and funds from some other organizations, no more funding from individuals, groups and fake messiahs. This is especially true where the former coalition is "Together", and now a group of exclusively interested in power. I will make only two examples of abuses in public enterprises in Piroth, and I am responsible for saying that there are only a dozen and all go to the harm of the citizens. The public water and sewerage company finance the development of TV Piroth, otherwise, as is known to everyone in Piroth, traitoric, asela, for example the suburban village of Ponor, there is no water in the most optimal conditions. Citizens are rightly asked what is the function of this public enterprise, water care or television. Another example is the financing of fake messiahs from Group G-17 Plus. They were made furniture worth about 3,000 marks at JP "Poleta" Pirot, and the same salary was mentioned by the Public firm water and sewerage. Should further comment on why this law is passed. No, I don't. G-17 Plus and their local coalition promoters show that it is one of the aggregate conditions of fog water and that, as a general mood in Piroth, it will disappear. The two examples transparently suggest that the law must be passed and therefore the Serbian Radical Party will vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-13-0.u2186	There's a word from MP Zivko Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-13-0.u2187	Dear President, dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, yesterday I thought I'd kidnap to say something before I listen to everyone else, because I never liked to repeat what others say, so this time I would point out why the Peasant Party of Serbia and the United Pension Party back this bill on public enterprises. The way it is regulated by legal regulations, it is already said, professional people, who are also the legislators of this law, have explained it very nicely. Let me just point out why we support this bill. The funds collected through public enterprises, unfortunately, is decided by local authorities in most cases. In particular, to say about Belgrade, this is where the City Assembly decided, and we know who is ruling Belgrade. I hope that this law will make us, as ordinary citizens, not to be the victim of giving, and that money, or our funds, spill into private pockets. In particular, where that money spills out and pours on my Chukara, I could write a novel about it. I want to point out here that in my previous events, I have supported the Government of the Republic of Serbia on several occasions, and now I am going to give her one criticism, which is why she has not done so far, so as to put the City Assembly under forced management, that the citizens may at least relieve us of these torments a little earlier. As an example, I quote city traffic -- not to repeat what happened, what we suffered, and we saw the justification for the Serbian government's reaction, which she did as she did, to make it go better. As a good knower of Belgrade's water pipeline (I was born in Zarkova), where there was only that small water line "White Water" since before the war (even the founder of the company was my grandfather), the Belgrade water line was credited and maintained by Belgrade in its own time. Now, thanks to this Belgrade executive government, it has fallen on a beggar stick, it cannot get out of the crisis. What is going to happen in due time is I can't even think about it, and that's why it's my definition that because of this kind of thing and that we support this law on local administration, because it's the most vital part of us citizens, who use the daily services of these companies. I believe that by passing this law, the funds that are being poured into the budget, these public enterprises will certainly be better directed, or directed there for what we are giving them. I'm undermining again - this law won't allow anyone to manipulate for a long time, but at the very beginning it can all be remedied and healed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-13-0.u2188	He has the word of the People's MP, Veselin Petijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-13-0.u2189	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Government of National Unity has proposed a law on public enterprises and on the exercise of general interest, which is of strategic importance for the development of the state, exit from the economic crisis and a better standard for all citizens, because it regulates extremely important jobs for the state and citizens and treats the property of great value. This law is not only a law governing the position of public enterprises, but also a law on the exercise of the general interest, which is essential for the functioning of our economy and the state, which is of strategic importance. We are witnessing that the existing public enterprises acted as maltenes as a state in the country, and the executives and directors were more powerful than ministers, because they were able to manage independently with the funds of public enterprises, which, using a monopoly position, were often acquired without their merits. As a result, profits and extraprofits were made available to them, without effective control by the state or government. For all disputed situations, which were present during the 10-year period of application of the existing Public Business Act, appropriate solutions are provided for in the new law. In particular, it should be pointed out that the law regulates the issue of liability in the event of disturbances in the business of public undertakings with the majority participation of state capital, where, in such cases, the founder, or the Government, can take measures to ensure conditions for the smooth functioning and exercise of the activity for which the company was established, and in such cases the authorities which have led to such a situation are resolved, and a provisional body of the undertaking, which the founder determines, is appointed by the Government. The new law limits the rights to the availability of individual funds, so that uncontrollable investments in suspicious and irrational investments and wastefulness will be prevented, and it is extremely important that public enterprises will no longer be able to use funds to sponsor and donate various sports clubs, filmmaking, etc. The Serbian Radical Party has always advocated the introduction of order in this area against the behaviour and business of public enterprises in the present way, so with the strength and conviction of the arguments, with our coalition partners we have launched in the government the adoption of this new law. The moral assembly, consistency in implementing its programming definitions, the Serbian Radical Party does not prove subjection to anyone, as some oppositionists attribute to us, and these are those who always prove subjection to Serbian enemies and the proclivities of trade with them, for the sake of personal authority and petty interests. They never negotiated their political strategy with the Serbian people and its representatives and citizens of Serbia, not in this parliament, but with the alien, under the patronate and organised by the monsters of the new world order. Or in the organization of traitors, like Milo Djukanovic, they are now together at St. Stefan's today. Milo Djukanovic, a traitor who has never pronounced a syntagmu so-called. Okay, but he always said, "so-called. The government of Yugoslavia," which accepted the Cypriots from Kosovo and persecuted Serbs and Montenegrins. So, the Serbian opposition is meeting, creating programs and strategies and tactics far from Serbia and this parliament, where the most modern planes, which killed our children, destroyed our bridges, destroyed our sanctities, schools and hearths of the Serb people. We, Serbian radicals, have always put national interests above personal and party interests, and that is why I support this law, because I believe it is in the interest, first of all, of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-13-0.u2190	Thank you. He has the word MP Branislav Vakic.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-13-0.u2191	Mr. President, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is right that Belgrade lawmakers have criticised the city's authority for what it has not done and have done badly for the citizens of Belgrade. Something similar is happening in Nis. The members of the SPO and the Democratic Party are in power, as you know. In companies in Nis, it collapsed. In particular, the vice-president of the Assembly, Mr Dragoljub Stamenkovic, also spoke of the municipal enterprise in Nis, conducted by fascism. What he's doing -- members of the Serbian Radical Party are getting kicked out of work. Incredibly, the fascist parties in Nis have ruled for how long. The companies in Nis don't work where they're in power. I told you about the utility company. The public city company, the transport company Nisexpres, has members of the city government from Nis in its Management Board, in particular Branislav Jovanovic, who is a member of the Serbian Renewal Movement and the president of the city government in Nis. They raised public city transport prices back a month more than 30%, in a few months more than 100%. In Belgrade city transport costs 3 dinars, and in Nis it costs 5 dinars, gentlemen, it's amazing. A transport to a village 5 to 6 km from Nis cost more than 20 dinars. Who can pay for that? Can this be paid by a Nisa worker who works in the electronics industry who has a salary of 500 to 1,000 dinars? In particular, the municipality of Merošin, from Merošina to the village of Padina, is 8 km away, and the map costs 20 dinars. How can this be paid by today's farmer who lives on agricultural products? I spoke several times at the press conferences of the Serbian Radical Party in Nis, however, the city government, as well as members of the board of directors of the Nisexpress, have not said anything about it at all. It's a special story to the Sumedia in Nis. These media not only poison our fellow citizens, but also cite their members, SPO members and the Democratic Party, on various excesses in the city, to attack some politicians in Nis, specifically on the premises of some political parties. There are people from the SPO who did it specifically. They've been arrested in Nis, and we need to make it public. A special story is city television in Nis. City television in Nis is funded from the city budget, much like the former Studio B here. I say former Studio B, because studio B executives were SPO people. Today, the people of the SPI and the Democratic Party from Nis are on city television in Nis. In a statement, they give everything our enemy requires of them. So it's city television, it's funded from the city budget, and there should be Serbian radicals, socialists, members of the JUL and other political parties in Nis on TV. However, there you can see several bodyguards, who do not allow Serbian Radicals or representatives of any political party that does not belong to a coalition that is ruling in Nis. Unfortunately, that's true. Then there are several private televisions in Nis. TV "Five" is the blackest thing in the leadership of the Serbian Radical Party in Nis or by the leadership and government in Serbia-Yugoslavia, which is all the blackest and worst and never at any time attacked by those who bombed us, have never called our enemies, but on their programme you can see Azem Vlasi and other enemies, various humanitarianists from the Soros Fund, who speak all in favor of our enemies. Then I would say something about sports city organizations in Nis, which, unfortunately, are held by a SPO leader, people who have nothing to do with sports. Sometimes sports Nis has nothing to do with it today. It's not a sports Nis. Unfortunately, many sports organisations have shut down. Only the football club "Worker" and the handball club. Various sports collectives, such as the "Worknik" boxing club, which has a tradition of over 55 years, which has brought many champions out, unfortunately, today's camp because it is run by the city's power, i.e. The SPO and the Democratic Party. We hope that the next election will show real light, i.e. The citizens of Nisha will no longer give voice to our enemies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-13-0.u2192	Thank you. The People's Messenger Goran Jocic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-13-0.u2193	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a public company is established and operated to ensure the performance of the general interest and to meet the needs of the users of the product and services. A public enterprise is established by a state or unit of local self-government. In public enterprises, the state invests state capital. It is therefore a clear concern of the government of the Republic of Serbia that these companies are managed responsibly, domestically, in accordance with the law and in the best way to meet the vital needs of the users of the services of these companies, and users are all citizens of Serbia. There are no irrelevant draft laws being discussed in the Serbian Parliament. However, the Serbian Radical Party believes this is one of the most important laws. Our representatives in the government of the Republic of Serbia have insisted that this bill be discussed as soon as possible. In particular, we are looking forward to the provisions of this law under which the public enterprise will not be able to pay out funding for sponsorship, donation, sports and similar activities, advertising, propaganda and representation, for the president and members of the board of directors, etc. until the consent of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is obtained. Serbian radicals believe that part of the funds stemming from the profits of public enterprises must focus on addressing the social needs of the poorest. It should always be borne in mind that the activities of these companies are carried out not only in order to gain profits, but also in order to meet the needs of users. The activities of general interest are the following activities - production, transmission and distribution of electricity, production and processing of coal, research, production, processing, transport and distribution of oil and natural and liquid gas, transport of oil and oil products, rail, road and air traffic, telecommunications, release of "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", information, publishing of textbooks, use, management, protection and promotion of goods of general interest, water, roads, mineral raw materials, forests, water rivers, lakes, coasts, spas, game, as well as municipal activities. It is clear that all these actions have a crucial impact on meeting the basic and most important needs of citizens, so it is clear why greater concerns and control of the state over the performance of these activities are needed. Serbian radicals, who are initiators of the law's adoption, believe the adoption of the law was necessary before. Of course, it should not be pointed out that Serbian radicals will vote in favour of this law. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Minister of Transport and Communications, Mr. Ratko Marchetic spoke more about this law, but I would like to point out that this law introduces more order in public enterprises, no matter who the founder is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-13-0.u2194	Thank you. There's a word from MP Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-13-0.u2195	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Your Honor, since we have not had a proper relationship in public enterprises until now, as proposed by this law. I believe this law opens a new base where the government will be able to influence more radically public enterprises. The law has answered many new principles and questions for us. The law is European-conceived. I'll comment on a few members of the law. Article 15 regulates new relations, where the chairman of the board of directors elected by the Government has the right and can establish a working relationship in a public enterprise, thus directly affecting and carrying out the government's will to appoint and appoint him. It is for the current directors of these companies a new quality and security in business. Article 21 regulates the distribution of profits, which has been regulated in various ways so far. This article will be decidently clearly regulated. Article 24 regulates compensation for the use of goods on economic or market principles, which so far has not been the case. The government directly affects the level of use, i.e. regulates and places around the amount of funds to compensate the boards, supervisory boards and other bodies. We Serbian radicals support this law, which gives us a chance for both businesses and the state to implement this law. In previous years, we, as the Serbian Radical Party, wanted such a law to come to light. Now the adoption of this law will certainly improve the entire system of financing public enterprises and the state, where it will not be able to drain state goods (oil, water, forest, game etc.). by groups, either private or party or in any other way (creation of some parallel semi-private TV stations, radio stations, etc.). Article 34 of this law will regulate the transitional period of harmonisation of six months and protection of goods until all companies agree with it. I come from the National Park Public Enterprise of Fruska Mountain, where I held some consultations with the relevant people from the company before this session. They asked me to mention them too and that they support this law as a whole. I want the Government of People's Unity to endure in all its positive intentions in this law and in all others that protect the state, the people, the natural good and all the good things acquired by work.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-13-0.u2196	Thank you. There's a word from MP Joca Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-13-0.u2197	Dear President, dear colleagues, I will not burden you, for I see that patience is in the end, and there has been a lot of talk about this law. A lot's been said. There's not much new to add. First of all, I would like to welcome this initiative to be regulated in one orderly way, so that there may be no more laws, but to be regulated by the law passed by our Assembly. I mean, there's been a lot of work in public enterprises, and so far it's been successful and correct. What is problematic and what occurs in a slow way should be sanctioned, especially by this law, in a unique way. Also, I support the amendments made by the president of the municipality of Gornji Milanovac Dražimir Marusic, where more municipalities are covered by companies, which is also the case in the municipality from which I come, that the public enterprise was formed for two municipalities, therefore possible misunderstandings that can arise for different reasons, because of different political, neighbouring relations or different interests can be prevented, so as not to prevent the functioning of such public enterprises. In the end, I mean, it's a good way to regulate these questions. Data is the possibility that within six months, all the statutes of public enterprises will be agreed upon and executed, so to speak, by common accord with this law. Your Honor, thank you. I suggest that this law be passed.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-13-0.u2198	Thank you. Anyone else answer for a word? I'm finishing the initial search. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I put to the vote the draft law on public enterprises and the exercise of action of general interest in principle. For 164, no one, no one abstained from the vote, was voted by one MP, a total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has, by majority, adopted the proposal for a law on public enterprises and the exercise of action of general interest in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. National MP Dražimir Marusic submitted an amendment to Article 4. I ask the representative of the Government and the rapporteurs of the Transport and Links Committee and the Legislative Committee to make their statement on this amendment. Do you accept this amendment? They accept. ) Since the amendment was adopted by the Government, the Transport and Links Committee and the Legislative Committee, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. He won't be voted on. National MP Dražimir Marusic submitted an amendment to Article 12. I ask the representative of the Government and the rapporteurs of the Transport and Links Committee and the Legislative Committee to make their statement on this amendment. Do you accept this amendment? They accept. ) Since the amendment was adopted by the Government, the Transport and Links Committee and the Legislative Committee, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. He won't be voted on. The amendment was submitted to Article 14 by Dražimir Marusic, a national MP. I ask the representative of the Government and the rapporteurs of the Transport and Links Committee and the Legislative Committee to make their statement on this amendment. After the amendment has been adopted by the Government, the Transport and Links Committee and the Legislative Committee, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MP Dražimir Marusic submitted an amendment to Article 15. I ask the representative of the Government and the rapporteurs of the Transport and Links Committee and the Legislative Committee to make their statement on this amendment. Having adopted the amendment by the Government, the Transport and Links Committee and the Legislative Committee, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The government of the Republic of Serbia has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 35 be added after article 34. I would like the rapporteur of the Committee on Transport and Links and the Legislative Committee to make a statement on this amendment. They're in agreement. Since the amendment of the Government has been adopted by the Transport and Links Committee and the Legislative Committee, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone else want to talk about the bill in particular? He doesn't want to. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a search of the bill in particular. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I put to the vote the draft law on public enterprises and the performance of the general interest in the whole. For 165, against one, no one abstained, one, a total of 167 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted, by majority, the draft law on public enterprises and the exercise of action of general interest. As the National Assembly adopted the proposal for a law on public enterprises and on the exercise of general interest in the whole, I note that when preparing the Law to be published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" the proposals contained in the Legislative Committee's report agreed with by a representative at the Committee's session. We move to the 7th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on Public Taxes and Refunds You have received the bill, which was passed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, which propose to the National Assembly to adopt the bill. I'm opening a principled search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? He doesn't want to. Do any of the MPs want a word? He doesn't want to. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on municipal taxes and fees in principle. For 158, no one, one abstention, voted four, a total of 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. Does anyone want to talk about the bill in particular? He doesn't want to. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a search of the bill in particular. We have a quorum. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on municipal taxes and fees in general. For 165, against no one, one abstention, all voted, a total of 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly adopted the bill on amendments to the Law on Community Taxes and Refunds. We're moving on to 8. (last) part of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Health Protection of Animals You have received a bill from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received reports from the Committee on Agriculture and the Legislative Committee, which propose to the National Assembly to adopt the bill. I'm opening a principled search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? He doesn't want to. Do any of the MPs want a word? He wants to. ) There is a word from MP Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-13-0.u2199	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I did not answer for the word when you were running a pre-election EPP here around public enterprises and around the Belgrade tax, and since it is the sacred duty of the "Vojvodina" Coalition, because there is a People's Peasant Party in it to defend agricultural policy and defend the village, rural people and peasants, it was my duty to come out and welcome this proposal from the Government for the opening of a veterinary station. From the reactions, I guess, you need to open up a little bit more. This one veterinary cell will be important, and it will contribute to the removal of livestock diseases, to the prevention of infectious diseases in animals, and above all I want to warn the Minister of Agriculture that at this time there has been a cattle disease - leukosis, some of which have been affected by the breeding herds of agricultural organisations. That these breeding herds are reproduced by giving the peasants in the service tow of the heifer a rejuvenation which is caused by leukosis, which is passed on through the cot and passed on in other ways. So my intention is to warn the Minister of Agriculture of this disease, which can decimate the stock fund. Also, I would like the Government of the Republic of Serbia and this National Assembly to take action and other steps in the area of agricultural production and the protection of the stock fund, so that we can physically protect cattle, because in this time of the drought, cattle are on sale. Did you happen to recognize yourself? (Dragan Todorovic, from the post: Go ahead. ) At this time, the time of droughts, cattle sold out into devastation, so that it is physically endangered and the stock fund is decimated, so it can endanger long-term agricultural policy. I would also like the Minister of Agriculture and the Government of the Republic of Serbia to withdraw steps from their long-term agricultural policy, which they have prepared, which are not yet being implemented, as well as which will give the proper parity, so that livestock farming will be paid, because the minister predicts in the long run that one liter of milk is worth four and a half kilos of corn and wheat is worth as much as one kilogram of mineral fertilizer "Urea", which is 35 pfenings. That would be the basis for the development of agriculture. That would be the basis for the development of livestock. Also, I want to pass on to the Minister of Agriculture that last night the crowd warmly welcomed what he told them about turning agricultural land into construction land. The minister considered it against the law because agricultural land under the Agricultural Land Act cannot change its purpose until the fifth class. Since this is largely done in some municipalities, and specifically in the Indji municipality, all gathered welcomed the minister's promise that it would be reconsidered. So much for that. I thank you for your patience, president of tolerance, and my only protest is, not against the president, but against the party that gave itself the right to remove some journalists from this assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-07-13-0.u2200	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I am concluding a principled search. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I put the draft law amending and supplementing the Animal Health Protection Act in principle. For 165, against no one, abstentioned no one, all voted, a total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly unanimously accepted the bill in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. Does anyone want to talk about the bill in particular? He doesn't want to. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a search of the bill in particular. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Animal Health Protection Act in general. For 162, no one, abstentioned, voted two, a total of 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly adopted the draft law amending and supplementing the Animal Health Act. We've exhausted the agenda with this. Thank you for your patience. Good-bye to the next session.
