ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2269	Dear People's MPs, I am opening the Second Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2000. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 183 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum, I ask the MPs to insert their cards into the MPs' units. If the electronic system cannot determine the number of MPs present, I will have to ask for a count. I ask the officers to count the MPs in the O.R. (Serb Radical Party emissaries leave the hall. I find that 116 MPs are present in the O.R. I have been informed that representatives of the Yugoslav Left are just coming from the Parliament Club and I suggest a five-minute break. I ask the MPs not to leave the room. Take five minutes. ) I ask the MPs to take their seats, so that officials can recheck the number of MPs present in the room. (JUL representatives enter the O.R. I find that 130 MPs are present in the O.R. So we have a quorum and we can continue the work. (Serb Radical Party emissaries are returning to the O.R. I would like to inform the National Assembly that the president of the Republic of Serbia has been informed of this session. I would also like to inform you that the meetings were called to be attended by the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as by the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. You have received the resignation of Slobodan Vujačić as a MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the report by the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the examination of this resignation, with a proposal that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(2) and Article 2(2) and Article 3. The law on the election of MPs finds the end of the mandate of MP Slobodan Vujacic on the day of his resignation. In accordance with Article 88(2) and Article 2(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013, The Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Administrative Committee, finds that the term of office had ceased before the end of the time elected to MP Slobodan Vujačić, elected from the electoral list "Socialist Party of Serbia - Yugoslav Left - New Democracy - Slobodan Milosevic" - in the Electoral Unit 5 - Subotica, on the day of resigning. According to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, a vacancy in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be completed. Also, you have received the resignation of Dr Karol Kasas as a member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and a report by the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the consideration of this resignation, with a proposal that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(1) point. 2nd and position 2nd and 3rd. The law on the election of MPs finds the end of the mandate of MP Dr Karolj Kasash on the day of his resignation. According to Article 88(1), point (b) is replaced by the following: 2nd and 2nd and 3nd. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Administrative Committee, finds that the term of office, before the elected MP Dr Karol Kasas, elected from the electoral list "Socialist Party of Serbia - Yugoslav Left - New Democracy - Slobodan Milosevic" - in the Electoral Unit 6 - Zrenjanin, on the day of resigning. According to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, a vacancy in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be completed. I remind you that on 9 October 2000 the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia began its first session of the Second Regular Session in 2000 by setting the agenda for the 14-point session and ending the work on the first two agenda points. Meanwhile, on 16 October 2000, an agreement was signed on the calling of early parliamentary elections in the Republic of Serbia between SPS representatives, the SPS and the Democratic Opposition of Serbia, whose guarantees are the president of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, Dr Vojislav Kostunica and Republika Srpska President Milan Milutinovic. The text of the agreement and the other documents adopted at that time were presented to you before the beginning of the session. As you have seen from the Agreement, the signatories of the Agreement have, among other things, committed that elections for MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be called for 23 December 2000, and that the National Assembly, by 23 October 2000, will adopt acts and choose the bodies necessary for holding the elections. Also, the signatories agreed that, estimating the need for political, economic and social stability and ensuring the orderly functioning of all state institutions, a new government of the Republic of Serbia will be elected, to which representatives of the signatories of the Agreement will enter. In view of this, as well as other obligations from such adopted documents, instead of continuing the first session of the Second Regular Session in 2000, I convened this - Second session of the Second Regular Session in 2000. So, I called this session only to carry out the commitments made for the National Assembly under the said political party agreement and to create the necessary conditions for calling early parliamentary elections in the Republic of Serbia -- for 23 December 2000. I accepted Mirko Marjanovic's resignation as Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. Your resignation was served before the session began. On the resignation of the Prime Minister, pursuant to Article 202(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I immediately informed the President of the Republic of Serbia. I remind you that, according to Article 93 paragraph 8. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Government and any member of the National Assembly may resign. The resignation or dismissal of the office of Prime Minister shall be withdrawn by the entire Government. I remind you, too, that it is Article 202. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly stipulates that the National Assembly, at the first next session, determines, without a search, the fact of resigning, and that it is not decided. According to Article 202(4). Rules of Procedure, I suggest that the National Assembly determines that Mirko Marjanovic has resigned as Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, who is withdrawing the entire government's resignation. We're moving on to the agenda. In the assembly of this session, which has been presented to you, there is a proposal for the agenda of this session. Before setting out the agenda for the session, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we need to decide on proposals for the adoption of acts by emergency procedure and on proposals for amendments and additions to the proposed agenda of the session. 1. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that this session be placed on the agenda and considered by an urgent procedure -- a bill supplementing the Ministry Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 18 October 2000. I ask the MPs to set up a quorum to place their cards in MPs' units. (Alexandar Wolf (from the city): I have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. There's no discussion now, please. You can't do it now as we determine the agenda, but when we're done with it. (Alexandar Wolf (from the city): I have before determining the agenda. When we're done, I'll give you my word. Please place your cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I would like to put a vote on the proposal by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to include the session on the agenda and to consider the draft law supplementing the Ministry Act as a matter of urgency. There were 123 votes against no one, abstentioned, no one voted 8, a total of 131 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. 2. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that this session be placed on the agenda and considered as an emergency procedure - a bill on the work of the government of the Republic of Serbia and the ministries until the education of the Government of the Republic of Serbia following the parliamentary elections in 2000, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 18 October 2000. I ask the MPs to set up a quorum to place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am putting on the vote by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to include the agenda of this session in an urgent process - the draft law on the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the ministries until the education of the Government of the Republic of Serbia following the 2000 parliamentary elections. For 127, against 12, no one was abstentioned, no voted 5, a total of 144 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. 3. The president of the Vojvodina Group of MPs - Sandzak Dr Dragan Veselinov and the president of the parliamentary group of the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians, Jožef Kasa, proposed that this session be placed on the agenda and adopted by an urgent procedure - a bill supplementing the Law on the selection of MPs, which they submitted to the National Assembly on 21 October 2000. I ask the MPs to set up a quorum to place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Vojvodina-Sandzak parliamentary group of the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians to be included in the agenda of this session and to adopt, by an urgent procedure, a draft law supplementing the Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliaments. 42, against 133, abstentioned one, did not vote 15, a total of 191 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, all points adopted by an emergency procedure shall be included in the session agenda in accordance with the order of their proposal, i.e. acceptance. The motions for acts adopted by an emergency procedure, by the competent committees, or by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, if they have not already done so, will submit their reports or opinions during the course of the session. Since we have come to the conclusion of all the amendments and additions to the proposed agenda, I would like the Members of Parliament to make a statement on the agenda of the session in general. I beg the Members of the People's Parliament... (STEVO Dragisic (from the post):The president, you did not ask if he still has a proposal to supplement the agenda. He can't be anymore. (STEVO DRUGSIĆ (from the place): How can he not? You should have asked if there was a proposal to supplement the agenda, I culturally waited for you to ask that question. I see you didn't mean to. () Be kind, Mr. Dragisic, sit down, now is the determination of the quorum. It's late. You need to get to the office in time. It's not delivered, there's the secretary general. All proposals are included. I'm sorry, all the proposals are included in the agenda, which are proposed. (Alexandar Wolf (from place):As they are included when they are not, we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I'll give you my word later. Just now to determine the quorum. Please, put the cards in the MPs' units to determine the quorum, so we don't have to count again. We have a quorum. I'm putting a vote on the draft agenda of the session in general. This agenda was voted on by 127, against 67, no one was abstentioned, no vote was given 6, a total of 200 MPs present in the hall. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the agenda as a whole. I ask the National Assembly's service to prepare a consolidated text of the session's agenda and hand it over to the MPs. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie. You've advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2271	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, amazing things are happening in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, something that despite what is happening in Serbia and the SR Yugoslavia, we did not expect. First, you should have informed, if not the public, Mr Tomic, that all MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that the New Radio Television of Serbia, because they burned and destroyed the old one, does not directly convey this session from us inexplicable reasons. I suppose it's because there's going to be a voice against the revolutionary committees, against the kidnapping, against the robbery, against the violation and destruction of the Constitution and the law. I guess that's why they don't think to turn on the cameras, even though I see them shooting here, so they can't just use what suits them, just what they need in the later mount. Furthermore, Mr. Tomic, you have done something that is unacceptable, not only for the Serbian Radical Party MPs, but it seems to me to the general public of the Republic of Serbia, and we must get the citizens out of this place, from the assembly booth to explain what this is about. In fact, we started working at the First Session of the Second Regular Session, we ended up with two points of the agenda, and then instead of continuing the First Session of the Second Regular Session, you interrupt it and thanks to some of the arrangements that you have reached with the revolutionary committees, you take away the right for MPs to declare those points, which this National Assembly has accepted to be on the agenda and to establish a completely different and completely new agenda. I will explain why this is happening, not because of you, but if there is anyone in Serbia, who in this one mind, imposed by revolutionary committees forced by force, let me tell you, as they entered all the institutions, in all the state organisations, in all the media guns, guns, bombs, threatening everyone, so maybe someone will find who will explain this. You did not accept that the first session of the Second Regular Session was to continue because we had to discuss and adopt some legal projects that the new DOS or the DOS coalition, the SPS, the SPS and everyone else would not want or will not accept, and above all DOS. Why? They do not like the abolition of the solidarity logs proposed by the SRS parliamentary group to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Why don't they like it? You know that even in the election campaign, we Serbian radicals said that this journal should be abolished because the process of rebuilding key infrastructure facilities is over. That's why that diaries must be removed from the burden and from the back of our people. They spoke during the election campaign that they would, of course, look forward to, immediately abolishing the solidarity logs. They don't want to take it away, they don't want it because there's no money promised, they talk about, they know they're lying, they know they're bluffing. So far we've heard, our professional service in Serbia's radical party calculated, 17,000 and six times by yesterday in their television shows, counting so many billions of dollars coming into this country that we haven't seen a single dinar yet. They know that the work has nothing to do with it, and therefore they will not lift the solidarity daily, and they are not allegedly guilty but are allegedly the MPs of this assembly called the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. There are other things they didn't want to do, too, because we've provided for a law that would eliminate a 3 per cent city tax in Belgrade. Apparently, they criticized, criticised the Socialist government, criticised the SPO government, they're much better, they'll end 3% in the city. They won't shut it down. He's made them accept, that they don't get away from the 3%, otherwise they can tell them whatever they want, and whatever they're told, of course I'm not saying that about all the SPS members, there are honest people out there who won't accept it and support it, but those in the leadership, they've got, they've talked them into it, and they've let them all go, whatever they're looking for. They say, a former SPS member, not long ago, Nebojsa Covic became the head of the SPS personnel service again. A man comes on TV, says he has nothing to look for Branislav Ivkovic, he has nothing to look for, he has, he has no Branislav Ivkovic anymore. He can do anything. He can do anything. That's how it was with a 3% tax, instead of taking our taxes off...
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2272	Please time...
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2273	Our time, Mr. Tomic, is just coming. As far as the 3% tax is concerned, the weirdest thing is that those in the SPO are laughing, which even 2% of the votes didn't get in the election and they still split into three factions. [[Laughter]] That's what's funnier than anything. Now, as far as the 3% tax is concerned, they know that there are none of the 1,000 buses promised to the citizens of Belgrade, they know there's nothing of the money they've been promised, here's Mr. Jotric here from the SPO, how they've been breaking into the City Assembly, how they've been acting. They approved them, gave them victory, confessed to them, and we admitted it on the first day, congratulated them, no matter how hard it was for us and how we knew who should come to power now. They came to the City Assembly and abolished their NATO bombing position, so that Bodo Hombah wouldn't get angry when he got there, that he wouldn't happen to see what he was doing and what he was doing. They come in here, and they're driven out of work with guns, and they can't come in, and they can't take it apart. That's the democracy you're talking about, if they need 3%, they need, they can't rule without 3%, because there are no 1,000 buses, there's no money, there's no such thing. Why doesn't it still have to continue with the agenda of the First Session of the Second Regular Session? It should not be because we have foreseen the adoption of the RTS Act, in which we have foreseen, as most MPs know, that the RTS Management and Supervisory Board will be made up of the proportionate political force of the parties in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Why does that bother DOS? It bothers DOS because it won't have an opposition in RTS, it doesn't have anyone to say a word differently, it doesn't have anyone to stand up to them, it doesn't want anyone to tell them that they're responsible for this rampage price, it's Seselj's fault. It's the Seselj's fault that they burned down the Assembly, the RTS that they took over, robbed and took everything they got. Because they took over the EPS, the National Bank, has no electricity, and on 5 October they still formed a crisis headquarters in the EPS and brought in a certain Vukovic to manage the EPS. The Serbian government, when it managed last year after NATO aggression, had electricity all over Serbia, all winter. They've moved in since October 5th and now it's somebody else's fault. The crisis headquarters broke in, all occupied, on TV politics, remember, that one showed up at 9:00 p.m., right, Angelkovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2274	That's right.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2275	At 9:00 p.m. he shows up, he says, and we liberators are now taking over the EPS. And the people have no power, and his release has come from them, and there is no electricity. That's theirs. As far as the RTS Act is concerned, there's one more thing that bothers DOS or the new DOS, however you like. It's a very important thing. We predicted, it wasn't a problem in the way of paying the TV fee, it was the problem of paying the TV fee. We predicted, given the difficult social situation to lift the television tax, but they won't adopt it. They won't, because they know there's nothing out of Hombach's money, there's no money from those bad guys who bombed, they're destroying this country. Ten days will be visited, 10 days will praise them, and then deliver to The Hague, meet with Dodik, break up Serbia-Montenegro's common state to be something, and already say a loose confederate. They're no longer interested in any form of the federal state. That's the point. These are the reasons why you interrupted the First Session of the Second Regular Session, and what I am asking for at this time is to put, Mr. Tomic, on the vote of amendment and supplementation, or all of these laws that we asked for to be brought into the National Assembly by emergency procedure and that the National Assembly be made known about them. Because many of these laws are condicio siniqua non and normal election campaigns. If you're going to do in an election campaign what you've been doing 20 days since the security committee established power, to rule worse in oneness than in Broz's time, at the time of Broz's dictatorship in 1945 and 1946, then you can say that right away. But it's hypocritical, ridiculous and unserious to talk about democracy and rather pointless. Here, I gotta tell you, I never liked Pink TV, I could never even watch it. Now, of those 10 channels on the 5 channels, I've set up "Pink" television to sometimes avoid some Canka, Vesenov, Obradovic, Covic, as many as there are on every TV, whatever channel you turn is just some of them. Democracy has arrived. Last night, this Maki guy, what's-his-name, came along, and that smart guy showed up. And he salts his brains to the whole nation whether they believe it or not. Anything in this country is possible. The SRS will not give you legitimacy, because what the representatives and members of the revolutionary committees think now, that they are very strong, they have been raped, they are very strong, that they can do whatever they want, you will see, very quickly there will be the awareness and sobering of the Serbian people. Very soon. The people see it already. Very soon, the people will understand who and how they got the votes and how. We'll try to replace you, of course, but we'll see that it doesn't happen the way you did. We'll see that we don't break into customs with guns, we don't break in with guns at the National Bank of Yugoslavia, we'll see that by the votes of the people, by the will of the people, we get his trust and political agreements. Nothing can be achieved by force in such a way. I ask you, Mr. Tomic, to let us know a few things. Who made the decision in this country to lift the transmission to the RTS programme, who is this all-powerful man who will say there is no transmission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to whom does it bother what we Serbian radicals are going to say today at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? Since, don't forget, Mr. Todorovic, when he spoke in the Federal Assembly, he was covered by the voice of Milorad Petrovic, otherwise a great lover of Slobodan Milosevic since 1989, a man who had worked recently in the government of the Republic of Serbia, so he became a big democratic and liberator, so you can tell us who made the decision that there was no transmission today? And to tell us, how and why we today cannot vote on the proposals that the National Assembly needed to declare the previous time, which we should have continued to discuss and discuss. And, one more thing -- some of the proposals that you adopted today have not been valid at all in the session of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and that is the first time since the government of the Republic of Serbia has worked and worked, the committees have not passed, even the chairman of the Justice Committee Ratko Markovic admitted it. In an incredible, magical way, it appeared. DOS said -- that's how it has to be and it's so voted. Well, that way no country in the world can go through, so it can't go through in this one. And, let me tell you something else, I don't know how much of an opportunity it will be for someone to hear us, to see us, but if there is any possibility of hearing and seeing I call on the citizens of Serbia that if the new DOS has agreed, and apparently it is, to call the 23 December elections, to go to the polls on December 23rd, to vote according to their definition and their conscience, and if they give their trust to the Serbian radicals, I'm sure we won't let them down. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2276	Thank you. Please, all our sessions are public. No one's shut down the television feed. If television doesn't do it then it does it on its own. Such approval and such consent did not come from me. So I'm not aware that television is not broadcasting. I saw the cameras here, and I thought he was doing a transmission. Please, please, Mr. Nikolic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure? [[Sagar.]] I'm just asking you to take care of the weather.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2277	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I've been a folk MP for nine years, I've been doing politics for ten years, and I still don't understand things in this room today. I would like to clarify that because of citizens who are not in this business and who will be much less clear than I am. Are you doing any work today that you're ashamed of? Is the messengers who made the quorum at the beginning of this session a disgrace to what will happen, so there is no television transmission? I can't believe you're ready today to create a coalition and that's why you're not happy. Your great desire is coming true that Serbia has been wasting its time for seven days. A desire to finally create a new DOS is coming true. But there's nothing wrong with that. Is the Serbian Movement MPs ashamed of entering a government that will last for a month and a half? Is it a socialist's shame? Or I'm talking to you here right now as DOS. I'm really embarrassed to speak to those who run the state, and none of them are here in the O.R. You've been pushed out. You're doing a job that you're ashamed of and ashamed of. If it weren't for that, it'd be a transfer. You say Milosevic was a dictator. We had transfers from the National Assembly during the dictator. And since 18 Belgrade breaths took over Serbia, there has been no television transmission. It's not just worth talking about. Something needs to be done human. And why is that? The SPS is on its way to having a whole new party, so what are you doing with this today? Who do you wish to now? Those of you who spoke with them would prefer not to be present. So what kind of force does that lead you? Why doesn't the people see what's going on today? What an idiot. Just seven days ago, we put laws on the agenda. Well, if the assembly has decided something urgent, I guess it has to end, which is urgent. What higher power now decides that what the Assembly said was urgent is no longer urgent and not only is it not urgent but it does not matter. It won't happen at all. Is that a new democracy? Will that wait for us now, ever since the citizens of Serbia have happened, something they have to do a thousand times to repeat is democracy. Like that kid when he draws a horse on the board, so he sees it doesn't look like it, so he writes down -- this is a horse, and we're constantly blowing up all the TV in Serbia -- this is democracy. Well, I'm sorry about that democracy. If it's democracy, it's not worth living in such a democracy. And what do you think - if DOS had 50 pages with three members, we'd have to make 50 creations every night on 50 TVs to watch. [[Applause]] Look at you socialists, your reckless moves where you brought Serbia. That's all I blame you for. Just because you didn't see it was time for change and it was much better for you to change, when you already had power in the people, than if you were blown by the wind that came, we don't know where, or maybe you know where it came from. This morning I'm watching state television, the morning program, the left side says "morning," on the right "morning." Who does it say in Serbia "morning"? To DOS people who prefer to speak all other world languages except Serbian. Will one day and the one on the left, that morning disappear as a sign of democracy? What does DOS swear? In that Maquis, who yesterday explained how he set the Federal Assembly building on fire. Well, he says -- I didn't rob and my group, we were armed with cocktails and we couldn't carry stuff. The cocktails were armed. Someone else dares to ask us what we're shooting at a mob that's trying to attack us on the street. Do you know in that crowd what kind of people there are? Do you know how many of them are from prison directly, how many of them are from the police, how many are from thousands of services, did you watch Captain Dragan's television that explains how he took over the federal customs administration building? And it's due to be replaced by a state prosecutor, republican. If someone had listened to Verko Stevanovic and I, he would never have been elected. And it needs to be removed. Well, I guess the most common thing was to file charges against those people, 'cause that's gonna happen again in a few days. What are these DOS guys doing to you? If you don't want to make a deal, we'll bring the people to you. Well, let them bring you. Sometimes it's more honorable to have no head or life than to live as a slave. What's changed since October 5th? So, you guys watch, what's going on? The President of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia also changes. In the campaign, he said he would not co-operate with The Hague tribunal. After the election, he said he had a lot of work to do. And in Bijaric, he said -- it's not my fault that Milosevic signed the co-operation and the Dayton Agreement. Yesterday he said he'd confess to Bosnia and Herzegovina. Who confesses to Bosnia and Herzegovina? What does the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia say? Is this a job for the President of the Republic? Well, we replaced one Dobroica Cosic because he violated the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and placed himself above all. Yugoslavia's president says there is a new government in Yugoslavia. Well, it's not the Maki guy who was on TV last night. No other new power has been chosen. Today, a new government of Serbia will be elected in the Serbian Parliament. I feel sorry for you and who you will be in that new government and who you will vote for this new power. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2278	Thank you. He has the word Zoran Angelkovic, president of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2279	Mr. Vukic knows that current television, Serbia's new Radio-Television, is not state television. The state television is burned, and this new television, I don't know whose it is, except I know that it's taken over the channels of state television, is likely to explain who it is. Therefore, the new television, which is presented as Serbian Radio-Television, is not likely to transmit this assembly because it is the editorial policy of the group of people who run the new radio-television, and the Serbian Radio-Television, headed by its general director, has been expelled from its premises and burned, and as far as I know, the Ministry of Information has that information in mind.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2280	Replica, but please watch your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2281	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Angelkovic is right when he says that I am familiar with the situation about the Serbian Radio-Television and it is not some particular smartness or awareness to be familiar. He's familiar with the whole world with what's been going on. I have a few things to point out about RTS, and that's why I was talking about the RTS bill earlier. You know, Mr. Angelkovic, that as Minister of Information, a few days before the elections, six days before the election silence, I held a press conference, at which I said there was a silent coup in Serbia, because the programs so-called "disputed". round tables. So, if it was interrupted, it was not allowed, and the right to equal representation of political parties, both to the SPS, so to the SRS, both DOS and SPO, and to the largest political parties, and to your favorite and protégé, Sinisha Vucinic. (Zoran Angelkovic, from the scene: he is not our protégé). Yes, it is, it's yours. Now, as far as RTS is concerned, no one knows on what legal basis and how some people got into that house. The revolution, the coup, shouldn't be ashamed of it, what are they afraid of? That's a fact. RTS is the government of the Republic of Serbia. We wanted to be the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. What they had to do with it, setting up their beatings, their men at the entrance, for bulldozers to run over, burn, crash, nothing. But, Mr. Angelkovic, there's something else -- anything you said I can agree with, but why are you sitting here when they won't tell you, when they won't let you say what you're going to say, unless you say it -- yes, it's wonderful Mr. Covic, yes, I love Zoran Djindjic very much, and I love the other Tito, who's going to let Flora Brovina out of jail without anyone knowing on any basis, or who he asked for it, and in any way. So why are you involved in this? Why are there so many SPS representatives who don't come to mind, who are forced to do this, why? They can't carry, they can do whatever they want. You know what news they publish to you in the journal - they only announce to you from the news when this SPS board is against another SPS committee, a lower party body, against a senior party body. To us, to the radicals, since we are unique, since there are no conflicts with us, they don't publish anything. Every day they get a statement, or a press conference, like we didn't even have anything. What do they have to publish - they don't have to publish, they don't care, why publish a different opinion when democracy arrives? What if there was electricity when democracy arrived, which didn't cost oil four times as much, when democracy arrived, what do they care? Now, that's the point. Don't give them what you give them, what you give them, what you give them the legitimacy and the legality of the destruction and the burning, who are you to free them for all that they have done? On whose behalf are you doing this? Do you think history won't remember the way they broke in, the way they conquered power? Who can justify it, who on the globe can justify it, who can allow it?
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2282	Please, time.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2283	We hope that if, Mr. Tomic, of course, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, put what we asked for on the agenda, according to a different law, they will get their real, democratic, or that they will be able to function in a normal way, unlike what is today. Besides, I don't see any difference, which means our biggest democracy was in the '50s, '60s, because some of the same personnel, who were directors and editors in Tito's time, are now directors and editors. So Joseph Broz was the greatest Democrats. If that's what you meant, Mr. Angelkovic, I can't agree with that.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2284	He has the word Mr. Angelkovic, the answer to the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2285	I asked Mr. Vukic, as Minister of Information, where is the state television to broadcast this here, and nothing more, and I didn't hear the answer, since Mr. Vukic didn't answer anything. But, of course, since we know and because the public is informed and knows why there is no state television, that those who have won democracy have won bulldozers, I just want to say the following two sentences - the SPS, precisely because there is no state television and precisely because the state television is held by unauthorized persons, and because the unauthorized persons hold another number of institutions, such as Electroprivred, does not want to solve these issues by violence, or by conflict, or by calling on conflicts, or by weapons, but rather, to call on polls, to invite citizens to polling stations, and to opt for what option they want - whether to take over institutions by violence, or for the option of functioning of state institutions in peace and tolerance and to function and respect of national will. That is the essence of this, and it is our decision to join today's agreement and implement the government's functioning agreement, the functioning of the new government, which will provide conditions for regular elections, for the December 23rd parliamentary elections, and I am convinced that Serbian citizens will know on December 23rd that they have committed themselves to those who are against violence and against conflict.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2286	There's a word Mr. Alexander Wolf, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2287	Ladies and gentlemen, I must tell Mr. Angelkovic, in all this trouble and trouble for our people, the next, Mr. Angelkovic, we Serbian radicals are not interested in these crisis headquarters, these revolutionary committees, we are not interested in it, we are going to stamp it our whole lives, as long as we are involved in politics. You give them the legitimacy and the legality of this which you do, all that they have done, they will commit under legal form, and that is the essence. That's why they got so attached, they have to explain their crisis headquarters, they have to explain all the savagery, they have to explain everything in some way. You think you're going to rule? You know how you will rule - as soon as you say something, stand up, stand up, they will say: "No more sea, Mr. Angelkovic, to bring you crisis headquarters, to bring you a buffer, a bulldozer, a loader, or I don't know what -- and you're gone, you're gone, and we're Serbian radicals, and in that we're different from you, they can't say anything. We don't care about their bulldozers and we don't care about their badgers. We're going to attack their bulldozers and badgers, judge, because it has nothing to do with democracy. Whether or not they're gonna kill us, maybe they will, but one day they'd better live like a man and live like a hawk than they've been a mouse their whole lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2288	He has the word Mr. Stevo Dragisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2289	Ladies and gentlemen, given that these days the intensive talks between the crisis staff, which is managing the state, both the SPS and the SPS, and as a result of these talks should be formed today by some government, which should cover everything that has been taken over by the crisis headquarters these days and taken over, I hope that one of the results of these talks is not the abolition of the Assembly's transfer. Therefore, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party Parliamentary Group, I propose that the Assembly draw its conclusion immediately, which obliges RTS to transfer this session and wait until RTS provides it. Since they have cameras and teams here, I'm sure there's enough equipment left that's been saved from the fire, to provide technical conditions for the operation of this transmission.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2290	I'd suggest we move on to the agenda, and then we'll...
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2291	The interpretation of my proposal dissipates the whole proposal. It's no use to draw conclusions when the session is over.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2292	No, no. Mr. Dragisic, we have a piece we do without the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2293	What part is that?
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2294	We have a decision to make on Members of Parliament on a permanent basis.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2295	You should put the motion to vote to carry out a direct television broadcast.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2296	Please, I'm running a session, not you. Before moving to the agenda, it is necessary for the Assembly to make a decision on Members of the People on a permanent basis. You have been presented with a motion for a decision, with an addition submitted by the Administrative Board. I'm opening a unique search. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. There's a big castle in the hall, and the MPs are banging on the benches. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I ask the MPs to place their cards in the MPs' units. We're establishing a quorum. Please place the cards in the MPs' units, see if we have a quorum? [[(Alexander Wolf from the bench): What does the crisis headquarters say? - Laugh.)]] [[Tomislav Nikolic from the bench: Don't take this session, if you were to run this session there would be a TV broadcast.]] I'm guessing we have a quorum. I put the motion for a decision on Members of the People's Parliament on permanent work in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I find that 191 MPs voted for this proposal, against one, abstained one, 11 did not vote, 204 MPs were present in the hall. I find that the National Assembly has made a proposal for this decision. We have a proposal from MP Steve Dragisic to immediately introduce a direct transmission of the New Radio - Television of Serbia. Place your cards in the MPs' units so we can vote on this proposal after the quorum has been determined. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I find that 185 MPs voted for this proposal, against one, three MPs were abstentioned, two did not vote. [[Applause]] I find 191 MPs present in the O.R. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this conclusion. I'm taking a 15-minute break until Radio TV provides a direct transmission. Take a break for 15 minutes. [[Applause]] ) I ask the MPs to take their seats and continue our work. I am informing the MPs that the Serbian Television has included cameras in the television broadcast. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Ministries Law you have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I'm opening a principled search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? No, I don't. Do any of the MPs want a word? There's a word from MP Alexander Vukitch.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2298	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's a good thing RTS got involved in a direct transmission. We heard it was so cold this morning, it was cold, so they had some cable problems, and that's probably why they couldn't get involved in a direct transmission. And it would be good if those from the EPS crisis headquarters could ensure that two or three groups are not excluded in moments as the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia continues, so that most of Serbia's citizens hear what is happening in this high house. As for the government's proposal, which you put on the agenda today, I must remind you, Mr. Tomic, that in the previous part, in that part that Serbian citizens could not see, thanks to media discrimination, bans, autocratic behaviour or people from RTS, or, as it is called, Mr. Tomic, crisis headquarters, what is now governed by this assembly, or revolutionary committee, as you will. So, I have to remind you, and the general public who didn't find out, that we, in a strange way, almost direct violation of the law, are moving to the Second Session of the Regular Session, instead of continuing the First Session of the Second Regular Session, which we started a few days ago. The bottom line is that DOS or the new DOS, however you will, those who are about to form now, want to avoid discussing all criminal activities, abductions, robbery, harassment, chicanning of Serbian citizens in the last 15-20 days since the Bolshevik Revolution took place in Serbia and the SR Yugoslavia. We wanted some new laws to be passed, to adopt the legal projects of the Serbian Radical Party. We have even achieved agreement in principle with other parliamentary groups, I am talking about large parliamentary groups in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. But then suddenly, the crisis staff seems to have made a decision not to think about adopting such laws for a number of reasons. One of the key reasons is financial nature. They know that there's nothing of this money that they promise every day, they rub people's eyes on all the TVs, you can't listen to anything without hearing how they get money, how they're going to help them, how they're going to flourish the economy in this country, how we're going to live great with the salaries of several thousand marks, etc....
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2299	I'm asking you to stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2300	Well, I'm sticking to the agenda, Mr. Tomic, but you didn't stick to the agenda, so you replaced the first session with the second session just because the crisis staff told you. You know, crisis headquarters doesn't mean anything to me, crisis headquarters doesn't exist in any constitution, not in the Constitution of the SR Yugoslavia, not in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia as a lex superior in our country. It doesn't say in any law that there's no crisis headquarters, no revolutionary committee, no revolutionary command, nothing at all. Secondly, you forget, Mr. Tomic, that I am from the Serbian Radical Party. We in the Serbian Radical Party will not be led by Nebojsa Covic, as he heads the Socialist Party of Serbia, so when he says - Branislav Ivkovic can, when he says - Branislav Ivkovic can't, then Branislav Ivkovic can't and you can't all be silent and you're suffering all this, but that's your thing. You've shown what your cheek is like, and we won't give it away. The crisis headquarters can bring in both a banger and a bulldozer, it doesn't interest us much, and it doesn't bother us at all. After all, everything they've done, what they've done in the last few days, will be written down. I want to warn you about the fact that what's been going on for the last 20 days, whatever they find, Slobodan Milosevic, Mark Milosevic, Michal Kertes, this or that and whatever it is you've been publishing, whatever it is you've been running in all the media, isn't even part of the crime that's been committed in the last 20 days. Let me ask you where the money goes from the federal administration of customs, who controls the money that goes to, does anyone know that in this country? There were three of them, four of them, someone said, a revolutionary committee, that we should take it, we're collecting that customs, we're doing what we want, and that money goes to who knows where. What's going on in this country? The crisis headquarters took over Serbia's Elektroprivreda, the EPS took over on October 5th. They say someone else is guilty because there's no power. Well, it's the crisis headquarters, the revolutionary command, these Lenin's heirs, those who think they can rule and govern Serbia in that way, those who think they can scare everyone, think they'll tell everyone -- they're coming to you with these Lenin's butts, you're getting bangers, bulldozers, run, get out of your way. Well, they can't scare everybody. If I can help you, we can't. Now, let me say, Mr. Tomic, why it is important that what the citizens did not hear, and why the DOS, or the crisis headquarters, ordered their revolutionary command to break up with the First Session of the Second Regular Session.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2301	But now it's on the agenda of the Ministry Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2302	I'll explain everything about that law, Mr. Tomic, don't worry.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2303	You only have 10 minutes to do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2304	The revolutionary committee and DOS crisis headquarters have decided not to pass a new RTS law, which the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group has brought together almost all parliamentary groups in the National Assembly. I know for a fact that there was both the SPO and the leftist parties, which provided for the National Assembly's Management Board to be represented in accordance with the number of MPs in the National Assembly, not the number of ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and more importantly, we provided for the cancellation of the television fee. These are the key reasons why the revolutionary committee of the DOS does not want to accept it. They want common senses, because they want a one-party TV for the new DOS, which they're going to put in, so DOS, SPS and SPS. Radicals of course not. They would like to publish some information about us if any committee would rebel against us, if we were to stand up against Vojislav Seselj. Since we won't, and it doesn't come to mind, they don't even have to publish any information, the Serbian Radical Party as if it doesn't exist. More important are those who never had MPs, who in these elections received three or five times as much as we did, and they are more important than Serbian radicals. Because we're going to stand up and tell the people the truth, no matter how much they don't like it, and no matter what the revolutionary committees think, the crisis headquarters, the baggers, the bulldozers, the loaders and their drivers, the caterpillars and everyone else. As for the other laws, which is why you don't put them on, Mr. Tomic, which is why the crisis staff ordered...
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2305	I remind you, the Ministry Act is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2306	Well, Mr. Tomic, look how carefully everyone listens.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2307	Please stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2308	I'm sticking to the agenda. So they don't want the law to be passed, which abolishes the 3% tax on the Belgrades. They criticized the SPO, the SPS, we criticize each other. They won't cancel the 3% tax. They know there's none of those thousands of buses they promised, they know there's none of those big money they promised. It's not gonna happen. Well, that's why they have to keep a 3% tax, and that's why the crisis staff ordered: you can't play and it can't come to the agenda. The crisis staff and the revolutionary committee also ordered the MPs of the new DOS, so the SPS and all those who support them in this part, not to let the next thing happen, to vote to abolish the solidarity logs. And you know that we Serbian radicals, even in the course of the election campaign, have asked for the abolition of the solidarity daily for the simple reason that the reconstruction is over, the citizens can no longer bear the burden, there are little receipts. Especially since the DOS's revolutionary regime has established power, prices have skyrocketed three, four, five times, and wages have not. That's why the crisis staff doesn't fit all of that. I hope, Mr. Tomic, that during the course of this session, the margin will not harm these cables again, so that they can shut down our television transmissions. I believe a word will be heard against them, that these hikes will break up. As for the proposed law, which is, therefore, contrary to the law and rules of procedure put on the agenda, or by the decision of the majority, you can decide what you want, and that the country is fourth, which Radoman Bozovic said in time, and you can say that, I doubt everyone will believe it, but it's not impossible either. I want to tell you that we in the Serbian government didn't support such a bill, we didn't even see it. On the contrary, it is a proposal from the crisis staff, the revolutionary committee of the DOS. We solved everything on boards and everything that went through on the board, passed on to the government, and the sessions didn't last long, because everything had been discussed on committees, whether for public services or for economy and finance or the judicial committee. This has not passed any committee and in the sea dots have passed as the government's alleged proposal. It is something that the Serbian Radical Party cannot support and will not accept and we do not want to accept, which is a fundamental difference between us, Serbian radicals, obviously from today as the only opposition party in Serbia. We are not going to accept that we give legitimacy and legality to revolution and coup, we are not going to give legal legitimacy to savagery, to engage with rifles and guns in businesses, companies, public institutions, state bodies and institutions. We'll never give it away. I, of course, know that some people won't like what I'm saying. There are still passions in our midst, tensions are very high in the people, and some will say what they say. But you'll see in a year, and long before that, I believe in the December elections that there will be painful awareness and sobering. Who would have told you, Mr. Tomic, until a month ago that Kostunica is going to release Flora Brovina and Albanian terrorists? They still call her a poet and a humanist. What do you know, Mr. Tomic? Who would have thought he'd meet with Milorad Dodik instead of Nikola Posposen (President: Mr. Vukic, time is up). I have the right to speak as a MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2309	You're entitled to the Rules of Procedure for 10 minutes. Time's up, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2310	Here, I'm done, Mr. Tomic. Don't worry, we fought in our own time when it was the most dangerous and against Slobodan Milosevic, we won't be able to get any new little Sloba or the great Tito or anyone else, against whom one can't say a word. I wanted to point out that Dr. Nikola was the elected president of Republika Srpska. That's what the president of the SRJ should have known.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2311	Please, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2312	I still want, since I don't know how many opportunities we're going to have, Mr. Tomic, to address the people, in the media where there's an absolute one-brainer, they're all regimeal, they're all revolutionary, everywhere the government of DOS's boot crisis headquarters or revolutionary committee, so let me call the citizens, if they're watching us, if I say the cold didn't damage the cables to plus 23 degrees, to invite the citizens out to the 23rd of December to the elections, to give their trust and their voice to the SRS. We will never take over and take over, we will try to rule as best as possible, with us you will always have currents, as you had, unlike these new ones who took over. It won't be easy for you, but together we'll be able to find a way out of a difficult economic crisis and social misery. If it continues with crisis headquarters, revolutionary committees and this authority, I fear we will lose everything, even most importantly, to the state of Serbia. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2313	There is a minister in resignation Dragoljub Jankovic, please. There is also a minister in resignation until a new government is elected. The wolf spoke as a people's messenger.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2314	I will refer only to part of the presentation of my colleague Vukic, who has challenged, so to speak, the regularity of putting this point on the agenda, and on that occasion he said that the government of the Republic of Serbia, the draft of this law was not, was not accepted, or that the radicals did not vote for this bill or were not present, since his statement was relatively unclear. Before long, there is material from the government of the Republic of Serbia. This is session 164th in a row, held on 18.10.2000, stenographic notes, from which it is clear and 8/18/28/1 unequivocally resulted that the government was considering the draft law on the work of the government of the Republic of Serbia and the ministries until the parliamentary elections of 2000 and the draft law, and I am discussing these for both laws, since I assume that the remark will be the same, on the ministries. The government therefore considered the law, adopted it, and supplied it to the Assembly in the form of a proposal. Therefore, there would be no objection if the procedure in this part had been violated. As for what precedes the Government, which is another procedure that is neither subject nor subject, it should not be the subject of an evaluation in the Assembly, because only this part of the procedure for submitting the proposal to the Assembly is evaluated. And as the proposal came into play, that's another question. But speaking of the proposal, I can say that the proposals of both laws were on the Committee on the Legal System and the State Administration on the same day, with this committee having the right to work in two possible ways. It's one way to hold a session and another way was to consult through what was done here. So, as I said, it wasn't a session, but members were consulted, and that's how the bill was established. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2315	Mr. Wolfie, replica. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2316	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm really surprised, almost astounded by what Mr. Jankovic said. We were at the government discussing, when the government was finished, the next day we came and saw what happened, as already in resignation, so we asked how it was possible that this went away, when it wasn't on any committee. Ratko Markovic, as chairman of the Justice Committee, said it was not on the board. Don't make it up, Mr. Jankovic, don't make it up because it's not human to make it up like that. Secondly, you know that it could never pass the government and that radicals could never say that, Mr. Jankovic, because we would be against any proposal that the crisis staff imposes on us, DOS or anyone. But it's not that weird. You can say that, you can say that if you've already arrived from JUL to the SPS, today you're going to DOS, which you don't care about, it's all the same to you. You can say it was government, and I'm telling you, and because of the public, I want to say that it was government, you know how? So none of us can see. Every material that went to the government went on boards, and then you're 35 points in 200-page material, and that's when most of the session was finished, you delivered it, that none of us could see, let alone read it seriously. That's true and those are the facts you know, Mr. Jankovic, and why you don't like to use the truth, I can't help you there. I'd better tell you right now. I see that Radomir Lazarevic from the Court of Commerce has moved to DOS man, stole the elections in 1996, is now the main man in DOS, come now and you to DOS, what has to do with JUL, DOS, the same comes to him.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2317	He has the word Tomislav Nikolic. Please allow MP Tomislav Nikolic to speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2318	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, since there was no television transmission, and the citizens of Serbia could not see the beginning of this session, and perhaps we should have started again, Mr. President, from entering the hall. Perhaps we should have asked them to release the first recording of that act that was not available to Serbian citizens, but in the first part you read the resignation of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, and you did not read the resignations of ministers and vice-presidents of the government, members of the SRS, which were submitted before the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia resigned, which automatically withdraws the entire government. I insist on that because the arguments are completely different. The explanation tabled by ministers and vice-presidents of the SRS reads this: "There was a coup in Serbia on October 5th. The government of the Republic of Serbia has been illegally kidnapped and managed by institutions, especially police and public enterprises. The financial, social and policy policies are in the hands of revolutionary committees, who have taken over the police, the economy, the stock reserves, trade, the media, the National Bank and the funds. Serbia's government no longer has any instruments of power and cannot run internal politics. The SRS does not want to cooperate in any way in the coup that introduces the method of armed takeover of power. That is why we are submitting irrevocable resignations to membership in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. "So that's why this government is leaving, not because some political parties have agreed to form a new government. For the government, a new one, a Lex specialises, explaining how the government will work until the government's election. It doesn't even say the election of a new government, it says to the election of a real government. And what the villains are going to do these months and a half or two, in Serbia, is not even going to be a government, because the law says it's something to do until the government is elected. Although I met Mr. Marjanovic much better than I knew him when I was an opposition MP, even though I know that this mess is not to blame, I resent him for accepting him to sign such an explanation for his resignation. It's not this, Mr. President, an explanation. If the police were in their jobs, to guard institutions, public order and peace, the security of citizens, and not the peak of DOS and hijack institutions, you would never resign. You would continue to work and the chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Finance in the Government of the Republic of Serbia would have instruments to prevent prices in Serbia from going wild. You would have instruments if there was enough power in Serbia. This was all taken over by other people, Mr. President, and should have been written in the paper that you addressed to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. That stays for history. One day they'll only judge us based on what they read about us. Well, I don't like them reading about this government that she left because she was waiting for someone else to come. I would like to read about this government what is true, that this government itself has prevented its system from ruling until the moment it was entitled by the Constitution and by law. That the ministries you run, the SPS and the JUL, had been betrayed by the government of the Republic of Serbia. That these ministries had become part of the service of those who would one day take over power. That's what happened that day, and that's what's happening today. We are today asking some bandits in Serbia's Radio-Television to enable the transfer of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Any idea who approved that transmission now? What's his name? Now, it's his fault why the food oil went over 50 dinars, it's his fault he bought the city traffic, it's his fault he got the milk, it's his fault he bought the bread. Who's that? Is that Vojislav Seselj, or Mirko Marjanovic? It's not gentlemen. It's not. If they were today, they'd decide whether there's going to be a transfer or not. Today they would decide whether this government will continue to work or not. Today, they would decide whether the police will guard the National Assembly or watch over the kidnapped Serbian Radio-Television Building. Who are the police afraid of entering the Serbian Radio-Television building? That the Prime Minister will come in? That the president of the assembly will come in? And whoever's allowed in there, Maki, a terrorist, would be arrested and convicted worldwide. He burned down the Federal Assembly building. Well, if the Federal Assembly had held a session at the market, no one would be allowed to burn it. He burned down the most beautiful building in this part of Europe. He boasts about it. And DOS say -- well, it's not much destroyed, so we'll get her in line. Yes, we will bring her into order, as the Serb cemetery in Kosovo and Metohija will one day bring her into order, now that they are completely destroyed. Let's cross now...
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2319	At the Ministry Act...
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2320	To the Ministry Act, and then we'll go back to DOS, Mr. President. In 1993, I was head of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, the government of Nikola Sainovic asked for budget rebalances, and the Serbian Renewal Movement parliamentary group asked the government to resign. Then she asked us to get rid of her in the National Assembly. Since it was only three months until then, we radicals thought it was early, but we warned the government of the Republic of Serbia that we were giving it until September 15th of the same year to do at least two things - to stop issuing Serbian national interests and to stop the inflation that was already rampaging the country. And they've already asked for budget rebalancing and we've conditioned them by abolishing the three ministries of the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Kljajic knows it. We then abolished the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Economic Relations with abroad. The reason was very simple. There is a Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. She has her own constitution. Under the constitution, the government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia is leading foreign policy, the government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia is leading the country's defence. Not the government of the Republic of the Member States. We transferred that part of the sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia to the federal government, so we told the truth, we entered the Federation, there are the bodies elected in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, we leave it to the federal government to run these three ministries. Now, by winning Vojislav Kostunica's election, so far he's the only one who's won, and it's turned into a function. Everyone else has MPs in the Federal Assembly, but no one else has official office. Although Mladjan Dinkic says - we from the National Bank of Yugoslavia, although I see that there is a v.d. Foreign Minister. That's what I've heard for the first time in my life. There's no sign of that in the books. But Deputy Minister Zoran Novakovic was appointed, while traveling somewhere with Vojislav Kostunica, as V.d. Foreign Minister. So, the federal government should deal with economic relations with abroad. Both major federal congregations have appropriate committees. In the Council of Citizens, it is an independent committee, and in the Greater Republic, the committee leads both foreign policy and economic relations with abroad. And now we're breaking up the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. The federal government has not yet been elected, we have not yet held republican elections in which some count on them to win. And here present MPs agree that the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia should be abolished until the elections, and economic relations with abroad to lead the Republic of Serbia. Why and how? This constitutional basis here speaks in general that Serbia can do some work, but the constitutional basis in the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia is unequivocal. Only the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia cares about economic relations with abroad. Who among you, my dear gentlemen, accepts today that Yugoslavia is no more? Who accepts that neither Kosovo nor Metohija is left? You know that Kosovo and Metohija are part of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Look what that ministry's gonna do. "Improving economic relations with abroad, preparing foreign investment, harmonising investment investments from abroad, harmonising activities of domestic and commercial entities abroad. "If this ministry was introduced to help with the deployment and distribution of assistance coming from abroad, it should have been written here in a description of the ministry's affairs: the distribution of assistance that will come from abroad. And here it's all about investment investments, investment preparations for investment investments, even in a work run by foreign trade in the federal government, synchronising activities of domestic and commercial entities abroad. Who needed this? If you're not the government for this month and a half, what do you need this ministry for? After all, the next item of the agenda speaks of four ministries and the president of the government having tutors. Maybe he'll be sitting in one office, all three of them, even when he's chasing someone into a little field, he's got to take these two after him. It should also be written, that together it will go to physiological needs.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2321	Mr. Nikolic, time...
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2322	It's like minors are gonna work here. On the one hand, you admit, you're trying to make it look like it's not the government, so SPOs say we're not in a coalition with the SPS. Yes, it is. So the SPS says -- not us with DOS, they set Serbia on fire. Yes, it is. Everything presented in the Assembly is called the government of the Republic of Serbia. Everyone in that government is coalition partners. The new government is called the new DOS. That's what you're ashamed of. I know that. But you can still stop your cross. As you've done well to vote direct transmissions, here's a chance, they won't let us on TV anymore. I learned that from you. Whoever's in power doesn't let radicals on TV. He can let them into the government, but on TV, there's nothing to do with that job. That's why I'm telling you, dear gentlemen, take this opportunity today, you have children, you have grandchildren, you have descendants, you have ancestors. You didn't do anything that was a shame. Some stole, some tried to steal. Mr. Secretary here makes a mistake amongst the MPs. He knows very well how to work in the Serbian government. All points are discussed on boards, ministers have confidence in the government, they don't have to look at the material at all, they know that there's nothing to come to the government that wasn't on the boards, and when 30 points arrive, as it was that day, no one reads the material, and then it turns out that the Socialists in agreement with DOS put two points later on in the cabinet session, points that didn't go past the boards. It would be better, Minister, to check how many of your judges have been embarrassed by election commissions. It's your job today, Mr. Minister, honorably to determine who tried to steal everything, whether Milosevic was deceived, whether one of you told him he had won, or if you told him he had lost, and he wanted to steal the election. It's a very important thing. If he wanted to steal the election, what would you be ashamed of? Did you steal? I don't think so. This time, only certain people were stolen. So I'm asking you to think this through. Don't let anyone say later - who is to blame for this, you voted for this ministry, as Mr Kostunica says today - who is to blame Slobodan Milosevic, voted in favour of the Dayton Agreement. I hope you don't make a mistake today, just because no one asks you anything. Here's a chance to give them back what they don't ask you.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2323	Please take it easy, take it easy. It's been 17 hours. I'm asking you to discuss further work. I suggest we get back to work. Anybody else have a suggestion? No, there isn't. ) Is there any suggestion of when we should continue to work (votes: until we are done). Please, first place the cards in the MPs units (we have the quorum). I'm putting the motion to vote today until we finish this session. Who's for that, please, press the appropriate key. The proposal was voted by 169 MPs, 13 against, three abstentions, 18 did not vote, 203 present in the hall. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The People's MP, Zivorad Jovanovic, reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2324	Mr. President, my name is Zivadin Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2325	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2326	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my distinguished predecessor was mentioned in the area of foreign policy and the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I feel obliged to, as federal foreign affairs minister, say that the federal government determines and implements foreign policy, that on behalf of the federal government, the majority of foreign policy enforcement is carried out by the Federal Foreign Ministry, and that for the job corresponds to the federal government. The current federal government, through its president, Momira Bulatovic, resigned and was then announced that the government and all ministers continue to work until the election of the new federal government. So, in the ministry where I am the Federal Foreign Minister, there is no co-ordinator, there is no acting minister, there is a federal minister and there are his deputies and assistants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2327	Thank you. There is a word Dragan Todorovic, a MP and a resignation minister. First came Mr. Todorovic, Deputy Prime Minister in the resignation.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2328	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after the resignation of the Minister, Mr Jankovic, Minister of Justice, I am not surprised at what happened 24 and 24 years later. In particular, this explanation is related to how a law on economic relations with abroad was adopted at a session of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. First and foremost, the SRS has no reason to be ashamed of any single moment in the government since 23 March 1998 until today. Everything we've done, we've done honestly and honestly and in the interest of this country. Therefore, at a cabinet meeting attended by the ministers of the SRS, he could never, absolutely never pass a law like this. That's consistent with our program, with our political action, from the moment we entered the political scene. We could never absolutely vote for a law like this. What happened at the government's session happened for only one reason -- we had confidence that the material that was coming in during the cabinet's session would not be looked at and we would pass these two points, i.e. to pass this law on establishing economic relations with abroad. And that's something that's amazing. To remind us that we took part in the session of that government. Because Serbian radicals would never allow their decision to participate in the crackdown of the SRJ. And I draw attention to the SPS MPs to take care today - whether they will vote on this law. If you vote on this bill, it will be you who will legalize the destruction of the SRJ. I guess you understand that DOS and all those who came along with DOS to power, SRJ is not interested at all. They aim at breaking the SRJ as soon as possible, to take over all the authorities in the Republic of Serbia and implement their plan until the end. It will allow them to adopt this law. Because they don't care. That's why they don't even try to form a federal government. Why do they need the federal government? They're interested in Serbia. Why not implement federal laws in Montenegro - so we didn't listen until September 24th that the Serbian government, that the power in Serbia is a liability to Serbia-Montenegro's common life, is that this non-democratic government is guilty because it cannot operate the SRJ. Here, now's the chance to fix it. Why do they fail to make their contacts with Milo Djukanovic and their excellent contacts by September 24th now? What happened to the bulldozer in Serbia? Why don't they move that bulldozer to Podgorica, and even there, create conditions for finally SRJ, is to be bulldozeral, but to act as a common state - because it can't be driven, it can't be dared, it won't be. They are interested in Serbia, they are interested in tearing Serbia apart, and everything in sight to get help as soon as possible, in order to distribute the aid as soon as possible. Remember how they attacked and how they still attack the SRS for the friends we have and the ones we're proud of? You remember how much money they promised, and the only money, as far as I know, they got from Gaddafi, and I didn't hear that they got that money back, that they were disgusting about those dollars, and they didn't want to accept it, because at least by their estimates, Libya was a non-democratic state, or that it's under dictatorship, as they say. Bulldozer's been taken over by the government. All these regulations were kept very much and immediately raised the voice of the protest because we abolished those regulations, because it was pointless that there were regulations with which they would exercise the same power, or tried to exercise the same authority as we did in the government that we spent two and a half years in. That didn't suit them. Now they're trying to raise the price by explaining that it's the planting of the old government. Well, now, if the duh can convince you to vote for that new government, let's see how they manage to preserve social peace, make it possible for all citizens to survive. Here, we see it on these first days and what they immediately managed to show us, no problem at all. You remember, after the aggression, what our power system was like. You remember the extent to which it was destroyed, what we were supposed to do, so that the citizens would have electricity. And here they came with only one bulldozer, and they have already introduced four groups each day that Serbia is experiencing power outages. This shows that they are neither interested in power for the sake of this people's well-being, nor will they try to do anything but legalize what they have done since 24 September in an illegal and illegal way through these transitional governments. Thinking that if they set up a commission on the government, the government would legislate everything, legalize it, and no one would answer for it. They think no one will be responsible for the fact that an armed group of Captain Dragan and that with long pipes broke into the federal customs administration brought Zabunovic. But I wouldn't say he was confused at all. Rather, it would be said that it is also well known why it comes and what it should do, a man who, in the last seven to eight years, has been exclusively engaged in importing excise goods and who has already had a lot of affairs with the goods that have disappeared and who has always appeared in a magical way, normally on the black market. Okay, where are those papers they boasted about and that got them into Customs Administration? Why don't they show it to this people and tell them who's been breaking customs laws, who's been importing some goods, so we can at least, if nothing else, be informed of who's been able to break that law and who they're going to call it. Probably, the first one on the list would be Zabunovic. You see, Zabunovic was not brought by the old government, brought by DOS. Now ask someone at DOS, ask Dragan Veselinov if he sent Zabunovic to the Federal Customs Administration, because he is DOS. Because if he sent him, he's responsible. And if he didn't send it, he's responsible, because it belongs to that political group. (President: please, time. ) They boast that they found $40m in the National Bank of Yugoslavia. If nothing else, at least we can't be transferred that money from the West. That's what we've been struggling to preserve, making sure this country is up for winter, that everything needs to be taken care of, to help this people. And where now and how they explain how the $400 million they found is spent. I'm afraid it'll happen to us the same way when Ante Markovic came. And then our foreign exchange reserves in that former Yugoslavia ate the dark, or went to Slovenia and Croatia, to other republics. I'm afraid it will happen with these $400 million, that it will happen with everything Serbia has to offer, to get us into a slave position as soon as possible, so that they can push us into the embrace of international cannibals who can't wait to tear us apart, to pick up everything that's worth it in our country, to get all these vultures who, after the 24th, left different countries, where they've been hiding until then, to begin to grab everything that has any value and what would help this country to stay upright. Therefore, think carefully about all this, especially when you need to vote on this law. Don't say you didn't know, don't say we didn't warn you, because if you accept everything they ask of you today, then don't be surprised when they choose the president of the party they want, because you'll have to...
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2329	Mr. Todorovic, stick to the agenda and you're out of time. There's a ministry law on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2330	I'm sorry, I'm a little off topic here, but I think it'll help the SPS MPs to make a decision. Therefore, take care, do not vote for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2331	I ask the MPs to take care of the weather. There's a word from MP Stevo Dragisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2332	Gentlemen, as the President of the Assembly said at the outset, this session today is scheduled on the basis of agreements reached by the SPS, DOS and the SPS. An agreement envisioning early parliamentary elections in the Republic of Serbia. Everything on the agenda today, including this ministry law, as the first item of the agenda, aims to implement the dispute. But this was supposed to be solved the day before yesterday. As the head of the parliamentary group, as well as many MPs in the assembly, not only from the Serbian Radical Party, they were able to make sure that this was not an agreement, that what was happening from Saturday to today and especially today and yesterday was not an agreement, but a blackmail. DOS or a revolutionary committee, or crisis headquarters, whatever they call it, has extorted the formation of this republican government, some new republican government, to be voted today by the Republic Assembly. Today, however, you and the SPO will vote a revolutionary committee in an extended composition. The extended composition is set for SPS and SPS. It's important for DOS to have the law. After the revolution, carried out on October 5th, they managed to kidnap what they did not receive by popular will in the elections. With the national will of DOS candidate Vojislav Kostunica won the first round of Slobodan Milosevic. All that's beyond that is not the people's will. Your mistake was not to immediately acknowledge the victory of Vojislav Kostunica and to challenge the justified revolt of citizens. The revolt also wiped out Slobodan Milosevic, provided Vojislav Kostunica with the duty, but also wiped out what does not belong to DOS. They have fallen into some public enterprises, which are in the exclusive jurisdiction of the government of the Republic of Serbia and of some social enterprises, which have nothing to do with the authority of the president of the SRJ, and have not yet formed a federal government. They did not form it because they do not have enough majority on their own, so they need a coalition partner, who will likely be the SNP from Montenegro. But for what they did at the republican level, kidnapping republican responsibilities, and especially the affairs of the MUP, they needed legal coverage, which is participation in some government. The government is due to vote today. They blackmailed you to take the people out into the street again unless you accept the formation of a new government. They even said - not even a reconstruction, but the old one has to resign or be resolved and then form a new one. We Serbian radicals accepted that we were involved in these talks, we were even ready to participate in this government, but when we saw what a blackmailing relationship it was to other negotiators by the DOS and when we saw that because we remained firm and we didn't let them blackmail us, we tried to organize a link in front of the Republic Assembly, we said there was no conversation with us. You can't talk blackmailingly to us, nor can you scare us with a lynch. Had you done so, the lynch atmosphere in Serbia would have fallen apart, the DOS would have had to talk differently with partners with whom it will now form a government. Instead, you accepted the language of blackmail. As a highlight of blackmail, it was what followed after the signing of the agreement. The new RTS, as the old one was burned, published the text of your agreement and the signatures of all those who were authorized to sign, even two guarantors, the president of the SR Yugoslavia and the president of the Republic of Serbia. The agreement signed should be implemented. On Saturday, when an agreement was implemented, DOS blackmail comes, if Minister Ivkovic Branislav is in the government, we will not enter the government. And accused you of even obstruction. And instead of saying that there was no conversation, no discussion, we agreed one thing, you impose new conditions on us, they asked you to replace Balsha Govedarica, the republican public prosecutor, some demands even had a SPO, you negotiated with them for two days, and you eventually agreed to their terms, to finally come to the formation of the government. Instead of acting exactly like us, when we presented evidence to you as your coalition partner, which is why Interior Minister Vlajko Stojiljkovic not only had to be removed, but to go to prison, we sought his resolution and shift for months. You didn't give it because he's a member of your party, because you wanted to protect your personnel solution at the head of that ministry. Eventually, under the pressure of evidence, because he's a criminal, because he let his entire M.O.P. go down, didn't notice what was happening to him at the Ministry, and all kinds of intelligence services were going through him around the Ministry, so that's why you went through the way you did, and then you told him to resign. If you'd stood up to the DOS like that and said there was no blackmail, you wouldn't be in a humiliating position today, where you are now. However, you have set your own destiny, and you have accepted it. We Serbian radicals will not vote for legalising the crisis headquarters or the revolutionary committee in an extended composition, because it means that in Serbia tomorrow, when someone comes to mind, when they manage to establish control over the MUP, they can re-enter the baseball bat companies, as Nebojsa Covic once said at a press conference or with long pipes, as Captain Dragan said he had entered the order of Zoran Djindjic in the Federal Customs Administration. So again, some new revolutionary committee will be able to do whatever it wants, and then they'll force some new congregation majority to legalize everything he's done. You yourselves will bear responsibility for everything that has happened from October 5th to today and for what will happen from today to the new republican ibsors. In all this, however, it should be said that the revolutionary committee or the new informal government in Serbia has managed to show that they are only interested in taking over the powers and businesses that bring profits, and that what concerns the lives of ordinary people, everyday life and those who were at that rally on October 5th do not interest them at all. Then they realized what a mistake they had made, and they used one big lie. You remember that on October 5th, the famous October 6th revolution began to rampage the prices of helbo, oil and other food products, public transport in Belgrade. They announce an increase in electricity prices and so on. Then they said it was the Republic government's fault, or Vojislav Seselj, that they abolished the regulations, which prevented these prices from rising. The first regulation passed by the government of the Republic of Serbia, pending its resignation, came on 11 October. From October 6th, when the price rampage began, it was five days before October 11th. After five days, a regulation has been repealed, i.e. a Regulation on the termination of the Regulation on measures to prevent and eliminate market disturbances caused by the abuse of a monopoly position. It was adopted on 18 October by a series of regulations, which abolished earlier regulations, which controlled those prices. Therefore, after 12 days, since the prices went wild, the Republic Government has abolished the following regulations. Here is the "Official Messenger" No. 37 of 18 October 2000: Regulation on the termination of the Regulation on the prices of petroleum products, the Regulation on specific conditions of sale and prices of coal domestic production, the Regulation on the determination of the number of coal brokers on the large, the Regulation establishing the number of intermediates in the transport of mineral fertilisers in large, the Regulation on subsidisation of the production of edible oil in 2000, the Regulation on the provision of aid for the promotion and subsidisation of sugar production, the Regulation on the way of education of pasteurised milk prices, the Regulation on the production of pasteurised milk in 2000, the Regulation on the determination of the prices of bread and the Regulation on the subsidisation of bread production in 2000. This is a set of regulations that have prevented the government of the Republic of Serbia from divining the prices of these products. Then, the government of the Republic of Serbia used the regulation as its instruments to ensure favourable prices for the population so that they could provide themselves with normal lives during sanctions.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2333	Time, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2334	I speak as the head of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2335	You can only do it twice in 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2336	I'm not going to report to this point another time, so I'm going to use that right in this first report. The moment the revolution wiped out all the rules in this society, the moment the revolution legalized robbery and kidnapping and when no one was missing hair from their heads because of it, there was no indication that someone would be punished for what he'd done in the last few days, or weeks, they'd become savage. Those Regulations were still in force. Since the regulations are not respected, because those who were obliged to respect them and respected them by 6 October did not do so anymore, because in a state of chaos they did not have to do so, the government of the Republic of Serbia abolished the regulation. Now let the revolutionary committee, the crisis headquarters at the extended headquarters, which will continue to carry out the affairs of the republican authorities, lay down regulations that will regulate it, if it is able to do so. But in light of the parties that make up the Democratic opposition, Serbia criticised the government of the Republic of Serbia at the time it adopted this regulation, we suspect that these regulations will be re-produced, or that prices will not only remain as they are today, but will be even bigger, because it is impossible to achieve the market price of these products and that these prices will be affordable for ordinary citizens. Prices will rise, and wages will remain the same. There is no financial assistance from abroad that can fill that gap that will appear between the price height and the salary height. It just doesn't exist. So this must have been said in the National Assembly, that this dilemma once and for all be resolved who is to blame for the chaos that was created in the state. On the other hand, you need to keep in mind what kind of government is being formed today, who's making up this crisis headquarters? The democratic opposition to Serbia is made up of those parties that, for 10 years, are well-known on the political scene of Serbia for all who have followed politics, and not just dealt with it. In this political Catholicism, i.e. the current government or crisis headquarters in the extended composition, there are all the separatist parties that exist in Serbia, and those who advocate the sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia, and those who advocate the issue of the Raska area, or as they say - Sandzak, from the sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia, and those who advocate the separation of Kosovo from Serbia's sovereignty, and those who are parties that are for Montenegro to secede, if they so wish, the destruction of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, and those who are for the three-stage autonomy in Vojvodina or in the future Republic of Vojvodina, and those parties that are for the further deployment of the rest of the Republic of Serbia, namely regionalisation, as they say professionally in order to mitigate the consequences of regionalisation, i.e.e. the destruction of the rest of Serbia, those parties that are open-ended for all war crimes. We thought the future president of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, Vojislav Kostunica, would prevent the delivery of our citizens to The Hague. He said that in the election campaign several times. Even in his presentation on state television, days before the elections, he Decidantly said that The Hague tribunal is a political tool for Satanising the Serb people. Don't mind me if I didn't exactly paraphrasise him. He said Serbian citizens should not be extradited to The Hague. Then, after taking office, he gradually changed his earlier bid, and said - it is not important for us now, so we have more important issues, we will see, we will consider, until, in the end, pressured from all sides, he did not say - Milosevic himself accepted co-operation with The Hague. What do we care? We'll deliver all the people they're looking for. We did not decide that Yugoslavia co-operates with The Hague tribunal. So, ladies and gentlemen, future participants in the crisis headquarters, you, by forming this government, by introducing the crisis headquarters into legal institutions, by covering the robberies and kidnappings that took place in these few days, from revolution to today, allow everyone who wanted to tear down the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia to do so in a legal way. You're legalizing their attempts to break up our country. The Federal Republic of Yugoslavia will no longer be what it once was. The autonomouss have co-owned Vojvodina, the resolution on obtaining and confiscating powers from the Republic of Serbia will launch. It will move on to further requests from other separatist parties. You're in no condition to stop it. Even in those portfolios, which should have belonged to you, which was distributed to the Serbian Radical Party, when the government of the People's Unity was to be formed, at the cost of life, you didn't want to give, which is the MUP, finance, justice. You've got tutors. You won't be able to implement what has to be done. The tutors will sit over your head. Even the Prime Minister, who's from your party, will have his tutors. The law states that the Prime Minister will decide in agreement with his vice presidents. Then what do you need the Prime Minister for? For not setting three co-chairs, for not setting three vice presidents. Which you simply didn't form some body that would perform these functions. What are you playing with? You're playing form. The point is something else entirely. The point is that DOS can legally manage the Republic of Serbia, convalitate chaos and kidnapping, strengthen what it has taken. Now I ask you a question, will the formation of a crisis headquarters in an extended composition, by voting in this assembly, be returned to all those people who are driven from their functions by machines before that government is formed? Will the EPS leadership return? For example, the EPS is in direct jurisdiction of the republican government. Whether it will return to state before October 5th, then the government will decide who will manage the EPS, or be some triple-management EPS. I quote EPS just as an example, and there are a lot of such companies. He won't. Although you will, you will not be able to implement it. On you, who today have a majority in this assembly, not at DOS, they have shown their face, on you who today will have 126 votes with your votes to vote this crisis headquarters in an extended composition, there is responsibility for what is going to happen. From this moment on, when you form this crisis headquarters in an extended composition, that revolutionary committee when you bring to the head of the state, from that moment on everything that happens in the state, it will go to your soul. You're still frames, you've got enough power to stop what's ahead of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2337	Time, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2338	Our future is very black.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2339	He has the word Milan Mikovic, head of the Serbian Renewal Movement Parliament Club.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2340	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you, Mr. President, to open the Rules of Procedure and read Rule 102, which states that the speaker can only speak about the issue on the agenda, and that, with the provisions of Rule 105(3), use your powers in a certain way and thus save the reputation of this assembly and all of us MPs. I don't blame the gentlemen of the Serbian Radical Party. They're trying to do something they think is good and useful for their party, and in that respect, I have no reason to blame them at all. It is up to you to decide whether to lead the congregation in one way or another.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2341	He has the word Jovan Damjanović, please sit (to the MP Vukic), you have no right, you have spoken twice, please sit down, you have no word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2342	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2343	Please talk about the agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2344	I'm surprised today when a new democracy is born and I can't understand it, and I can't believe that exactly those who advocated the asphyxiation of the media, asphyxiation of freedom and asphyxiation of democracy that there is no media in a home like this today. Who are we talking to, and who are we talking about? Did we get the trust of the million auditorium, our people, our voters, to hear what the new democracy is doing in parliament right now?
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2345	Mr. Damjanovic, transmissions have been introduced.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2346	They were introduced, but when there was a confusion. Whether or not it can be allowed and who has allowed it to occur in this state. This is a disgrace to this House. This is a disgrace for a new democracy. A new democracy must open roads and channel democracy. If we want democracy, we can't and we don't need anyone from all these opposition political organisations to let it come to collidation today. Right if the people voted, which they voted, and DOS got trust must be...
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2347	Mr Damjanović, please, the agenda is the law. Please speak of the law, we've overcome this.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2348	I'm talking about democracy right now and democracy is gone. I do not agree that the folk heroes, so called in the Socialist Party, are working differently today, are working against Yugoslavia today. We all need to know that many victims, thousands and hundreds, Serbian soldiers, have left their lives...
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2349	Mr Damjanović, please, I must warn you. You heard before Mr. Mikovic warned me that I did not respect the Rules of Procedure. Please stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2350	Today, the Federal Assembly of certain people is being satanized, which we could never think of, and just today, when we need to establish federal authorities and have a legal state, and then demand in the republican elections a Republic shift of certain people, ministers and everything else, if the people vote, however, something undemocratic is happening.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2351	Mr Damjanovic, be kind and move to the agenda point or I'll have to take your word for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2352	Here, I'll just say a few words.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2353	Please don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2354	We Serbian radicals are coming out of parliament's elevated forehead, honorable and fair, we have worked to preserve the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, its sovereignty and its integrity. Please, what we're doing today is not appropriate. We can talk about all the laws, the laws, the laws, but exactly constitutionally and legally this assembly does not adapt to the Constitution and the law that needs to be implemented. We are coming out of the Assembly of Honor and Honest, Elevated Head, because we have a president, we have such a party that has worked for this people, for this Serbia and Yugoslavia and we will see what the committee, Tito's self-government and Dolance's administration will do. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2355	He has the word National MP Slobodan Tomovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2356	Dear President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, I am truly moved by the concern that my colleagues and fellow Serbian radicals show for the future of the Socialist Party and for future intentions, actions and activities. Simply, I felt called that on my behalf and I believe in the name of most of my fellow MPs of the same definition, I say something to the claims that the Socialist Party of Serbia has hit defetism, that we agree to blackmail and that we have simply lost our dignity. In this regard, I would like to stress the following - and in the previous Government of People's Unity, and in those governments before that, the Socialists had a prominent responsibility for matters concerning state governance and while we managed and dealt with these affairs, others engaged in personal exhibitionism and the creation of personal ratings. We, therefore, entertained this business, and realized that even at this moment of growing political tensions, and changed relationships and political influence on this scene, we also believe that we must take responsibility for these tensions to be reduced, to return to natural flows, to crisis headquarters and everything else that we also loathe under the law and in the framework of regulation, and that is why we have accepted that under this agreement and what we have to decide on today, we declare. I also want to say that we are not afraid of any blackmail or construction machinery. It's simply our consent to participate in all of this I'm explaining the phenomenon of so-called. I want to explain that one moment, two mothers in a goat tribe were entitled to the same child. The chief put the child in the center, told him to spread his arms, describe the circle of chalk around the child, and told the mothers each to drag on their own side, and whose love is stronger will draw the child to that side. They started to wolf, and one minute one of them let the child go, and he gave the child to her. For this very reason, the Socialist Party of Serbia has let that hand not to tear the child's hand apart, help this scene calm down and then regroup its ranks, solve the problems that have grown in our party, which we hope voters will manage to recognise and verify in the 23 December elections. Regarding the law to say this - it is true that the law was not on the Committee on Economic Development and Finance, but it is true that the Government was unanimously adopted. And, as far as EPS is concerned, what is, whose, etc. It is also true that the Director-General of the EPS, at his request, had consulted anyone before, or had been particularly motivated, wrote a request and was granted an annual vacation. Dragan Kostic is on vacation, and he gave power to Krsti Vukovic, to perform that function, and that is the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2357	There's a word from MP Lazar Marjanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2358	Ladies and gentlemen, this law that's on the agenda, for its Article 25b, I can only say, forgive them God, they don't know what they're doing. And what it is that the SPS doesn't know how to do -- first of all, you blamed Milo Djukanovic very much for separatizing, for being a traitor. In front of the election campaign, many of you have blamed us for not coming on TV. There are certainly four honest people among you, such as Bija, Zivka Radovanchev, Ljuba Davidovic, Radovan Pankov, who are ashamed of this law. I know that there is one among you, and I have spoken with you, that you are ashamed of this law. Here comes Bucky Air-Brown. One more thing I would say, for you to pass this law there are not enough of them in this assembly, 1996 was voted, trust was given to radicals, SPS, SPS, Coalition "Together", etc. You are the biggest culprits to break Yugoslavia, not Milo Djukanovic and others, but you from the SPS. How are you, Bijo, going to your Svilian when he puts his finger on you that you broke Yugoslavia? You are the guilty, you will be ashamed when you go to your places and when you say we are the ones who broke up Yugoslavia. This law you've passed, it's an honor.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2359	He has the word Alexander Vukic, a replica, but please, as agreed.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2360	Which, Mr. Tomic, you're so afraid of something I'm going to say, don't worry, I'll be pretty short. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, two feelings permeate me today-- one sadness, and another joy, mixed. I'll explain to you both. First of all, Mr. Tomovic, it's not the chief, it's the atom. Secondly, Mr. Tomovic, I'm surprised you say so, I'm surprised you say so, because I doubt you believe what you're saying, because what you said doesn't believe any SPS MPs here. No one in Serbia believes, Mr. Tomovic, because everyone knows what's going on. A few questions later I will refer to the Secretary-General of the SPS, I, as Secretary-General of the SRS, but I will remind you of the words, last night, former SPS member of the SPS, the recently, of your colleague Nebojja Covic, he is now in the DOS, who has said one thing well, along with all the threats, with all the things he said and all the things he said, he said one exact thing - you tighten up, you tighten up, and then you give more than anyone asked. Did you propose Branislav Ivkovic as minister - he did. They said, said DOS, we don't like that one. So where is Branislav Ivkovic today? He's gone. They're running your personnel policy, they're running everything for you. You say it's too much love to put it into the system. Let me ask you a few questions, Mr. Tomovic, or Mr. Angelkovic, as you wish - what is he doing in the NBJ, who is he? They say Dinkic's name is. Who put him there? As he entered there, is that a crime, Mr. Angelkovic, is it the one who breaks both constitutions, which violates 10 laws, that criminal Mr. Angelkovic? So what are you doing? Is that DOS, Dinkich, I don't know who you are. Are those criminals? So you and the criminals mean you're building a government. So tell it straight to the public. And it's worse crime than any of the things anyone's stolen anywhere, and he's got to go to jail, who stole it. It's a much worse crime. You're saying it's being led and introduced into the institutions of the system. Well, you can't, you can't introduce it, you can't commit crime, you can't retroactively abolize crime, the hardest possible crime. Is there anything worse, can you imagine anything worse than maybe multiple murders? Can you imagine anything worse? Here's how many SPS deputies there are, so let them come out and say it. There's no one who'll say that. Do you want to absorb everything you've been watching for 20 days, TV Serbia, and no one knows what television is. They say new. Listen, they came up with a name and they said, "new," because they burned the old one, so they say new one. You want to give them up for the lynching of Dragoljub Milanovic, no matter what I think about editorial policy, and you know what I said on the board of directors, not on the board of directors, but at the press conference, as a minister, a few days before the elections, when I accused them of a silent coup, etc. You want to justify that lynching, you want to say -- that's what the institutions of the system did, not criminals and alleys. That's the difference between you and me. I'm happy, and I'm sad about all this, and I'm sad about the announcements that a loose alliance will be created, that is, a confederate between Serbia and Montenegro, sad to see Serbs push into The Hague, sad about everything that's going on. I'm happy to be an opposition, which will be an opposition to the new DOS, SPS, JUL, and SPO. That's why I'm happy, but make sure that no one, no matter what position the SRS is in, will ever be able to exert such pressure on us and will never accept it. We'll keep our people safe, we'll fight for each and every one of them, you could see it by now, you'll see it in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2361	He has the word Zoran Angelkovic (a.k.a.) head of the SPS Parliament Club.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2362	There's a replacement here. First, of course, I agree with Mr. Vucic, and I am sad that violence is happening on the street, because violence is being taken over by institutions, because guns are threatening people, but of course, when it comes to Dinkic and the National Bank, I ask Mr. Tom Nikolic, as vice president of the Federal Government, what is Dinkic doing at the National Bank of Yugoslavia? When it comes to that so-called. the new TV, or as Mr. Vukic says, what is and who manages RTS, I don't know. I just asked Mr. Vukic, as minister of information, the question -- what about RTS, why it doesn't work, why it's on fire and how it works and who, and how it uses RTS channels in Serbia? I mean, what I'm trying to say is, you can't become an opposition overnight. No one can amnesty from participation in power, as no one can amnesty from violence. Not even one socialist, not only an MP, but a member of the SPS and the voter and the man who voted for the SPS, will accept that anyone who committed violence is amnesty from this violence, amnesty from the fact that violence has done wrong to others, that he has destroyed property. Whoever wronged, who destroyed property, should not be particularly concerned with investigative judges, for those who did so have said these days. They also said who ordered and who gave the orders. That's the facts. However, the SPS belongs to those political groups, which, above all, have responsibility for the situation in the country and which put Serbia first, peace in Serbia, first and foremost, and to the most significant pedestal of their values, security and security of citizens and tightening tensions in Serbia. When such situations arise, and tensions in Serbia occur, we have always decided that these tensions and that these tensions are decided by Serbian citizens in the elections. And not for the first time in such conditions, the SPS has opted to go to early parliamentary elections. This is not the first time that, in the ten years that have passed, in times of many crises, many attacks on our country, the SPS has been committed to making a statement to the citizens of Serbia about whom trust points out and has never been wrong. She did not make a mistake because she trusted Serbian citizens to make the right statement and always be for peace policy, for tolerance policy, for conflict resolution policy at the polling post and box, not with guns and rifles on the street. And now we also define ourselves for this fact in this sense, we have offered and asked that all parliamentary parties, all political organisations that have some influence on Serbia's political map participate and seek and find a common solution to overcome the crisis. In this regard, the Serbian Radical Party also participated in several first talks, and then gave up further. Whether it's justified or not, it's a matter of the Serbian Radical Party, I'm not getting into it. But the Socialist Party of Serbia has defined itself in its bodies, at a session of the General Committee and at the Parliament Club, to do its utmost and to do everything possible to calm down the passions of Serbia and to ensure that Serbian citizens have their relationship with what is happening on December 23rd. In this sense, we have defined ourselves and put first the fact that peace is the interest of the citizens of Serbia and that in the name of this peace we should provide a government that will work on that plan for the next two months and, of course, provide those basic conditions for the functioning of the system institutions. We believe we'll do it. We do so with all those who want to do these jobs for Serbia and Serbia by December 23rd. They would have done so and would have done so with all other parliamentary parties, of course, and with the Serbian Radical Party that it had accepted the fact. We think and we are convinced that today is the day and time when all political entities and all parliamentary parties on the agenda and on this goal of working together towards peace and stabilisation in Serbia should work until December 23rd. We made that contribution. This is our relationship to both Serbia and Yugoslavia. When it comes to Yugoslavia and there is our position clearly. We have a clear relationship on this issue. In this regard, we will participate at all levels in talks in Yugoslavia that contribute to strengthening Yugoslavia, which contribute to creating good relations between Serbia and Montenegro. In any other respect and in any other action, regardless of who is involved and who wants to tear Yugoslavia apart, the Socialist Party of Serbia will not participate. But it is already a question of the new prime minister of the SR of Yugoslavia, where we insisted that Mr Kostunica give the mandate to the Socialist People's Party of Montenegro as soon as possible and ask the SNP of Montenegro to present its programme and of course that the SPS of Serbia will declare the programme, and will declare itself in favour of Yugoslavia, not against Yugoslavia. It's our policy, and so far it's going to be in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2363	He has the word Slobodan Tomovic, a folk MP - replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2364	I thank you, first of all, Mr. Wolf, whether you're saying "boss" or "ataman," the thing is whether you speak native language or use foreign idioms. Secondly, if what I'm saying, if anyone else believes it, I believe that my colleagues -- yes. As far as you're concerned, you obviously don't believe it, but that's your problem. You're a young man and I hope, if you're careful, you'll come to what the real values are, and also to say, that you were careful about this time when you were in the Government of Mirko Marjanovic, you'd learn that the National Bank of Yugoslavia is in the jurisdiction of the federal state, not the Republic. Therefore, this mention in the Republic Parliament and the influence of the Republic government on this is likely to be wrongly addressed. (Alexander Vukic exits for the pay phone.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2365	Mr. Vukic, if you'll excuse me, I'll give you my word, because Toma Nikolic has asked for your word before. [[Wolve from the bench: I didn't see.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2366	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't know why Mr. Angelkovic mentioned me, but if I am behind this speaker as Vice-President of the Federal Government in resignation, let me answer your questions to the resolutions that are in the Federal Government's jurisdiction. Mladjan Dinkic presented himself as a man from the National Bank of SR Yugoslavia on TV, publicly, no one challenged him. He broke into the premises of the National Bank, the governor of the National Bank failed to resign. There is now the governor of the National Bank at the National Bank and tells me that Dinkic has entered some other directors and that Mr. Vlatkovic is still the governor of the National Bank. If you remember, a few days after the coup, all the funds of public information, all the regime media, when I say regimeally, I mean somebody else's, I don't care if you're in charge of television or DOS command, you've all announced that a drastic German brand course has been knocked down compared to a dinar. It has even been mentioned that 16 dinars are worth branding in all Serbian cities. Mladjan Dinkic went on state-run state-run television and said it was a credit to the new government. It doesn't go three days, there goes the stamp, not just on the black market, but someone announces it's officially 30 dinar marks. Now, here's the governor of the National Bank, so you could have nice, he's not so strong anymore, you ask him. You could have asked him nicely, Mr. Vlatkovic, who rules the National Bank of Yugoslavia. Here, I'll ask him, but he won't say. He's still glad to go to work in that car with the TV in the car. And I, as vice president of the federal government, didn't have a car available for a year, and Michael Kertes had to provide one of the cars I was driving, which the regime media now says he gave me. I delivered the list. I'll give the president a photocopy, traffic permits and a travel order for that car. The car I was driving is headed to the federal customs office and I'm not the only federal official that the state didn't have the money to buy an official car, but customs provided. There is also Vice President Vladan Kutlešić. I know in the federal government. I know of a lot of resistors in the federal government, all those who needed the secretary of the federal government to provide a car, couldn't get a car. I am now in a slightly different situation than Mr. Zivadin Jovanovic, who claims to be still foreign minister. I say that I am no longer the Vice-President of the Federal Government, not even for that car no one gives gas, and Mr. Zivadin Jovanovic no longer has the Federal Government's car, and he is still the foreign minister, at least so he claims, except that the president of the SR Yugoslavia is not taking him anywhere, but is leading the foreign ministry's co-ordinator, so it said on regime television. So, this Mladjan Dinkic accused Mr. Angelkovic of being the president of your party and the vice president of my party of being guilty of rampaging prices because they abolished the regulations we provided and at the most difficult time for citizens to survive. Those regulations were valid while sanctions were being imposed. The DOS appeared on TV, President Kostunica appeared and said sanctions were lifted. Have the sanctions been lifted? Well, then we don't need anti-monopoly regulations, 'cause now it's going to run the market. First of all, there will be huge help, a stable situation in the country. Here, the Democratic Party will lead the flag, Mr. Stevanovic, they are terribly capable. At night, they flew into the flag, Vladan Batic and Miki Savicevic, and they say, from now on, we will lead the flag. Miki Savicevic, whom you, as you are, have been sent to prison for crime. When you guys couldn't take it anymore, I can only imagine how much a criminal he was, because I know a lot of people you haven't sent to jail yet, and I know they're criminals. How much did he take when he had to be expelled? Now, he's going to run the flag, which the Serbian government passed by the Constitution and the law, you all know, gave three billion to restore production. What are they gonna do now? To sell what little car he's got, and then the flag workers are going to go to the street, it's only going to be 4,000 workers left in the flag. Is that a success for the citizens of Kragujevci? But you warned me that you couldn't just go into opposition, Mr. Angelkovic. I have been in opposition since the ninth day of the presidential campaign, since the day the state television stopped reporting what the Serbian Radical Party is doing and what its presidential candidate is doing in the campaign. It was your move to ensure some terrible victory for your presidential candidate, which you certainly counted on.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2367	Mr. Nikolic, please finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2368	Here, I'm done, Mr. President, this was only six minutes of replica. I have a right for at least 10 minutes, as former vice president of the federal government, please consider that.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2369	No, it's three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2370	So, you're responsible for the tensions in the country, Mr. Angelkovic, and that's where I see your responsibility the day Serbia went missing in the parade. I was talking in the campaign, if you try to steal DOS, there's a lot of TV shows waiting for you on the street. That's what I was convinced of. I knew you'd be betrayed by the police. It felt months ahead. If you didn't feel it, I did. I was talking in a radical campaign...
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2371	Mr. Nikolic, please, this is out of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2372	I was talking in the radicals' campaign that when it comes to sitting with your kids at home, it's gonna be terrible. You caused it that day, you have to admit it. There's no excuse for what happened, but you caused it. DOS was supposed to stop that day, but who's gonna stop the mob? In the end, let me say one more thing. I understand that many political parties are disappearing from the political scene. I see two in this room. I see the SPS, the way it is now, must disappear from the political scene and see that it appears in another form and you will have parliamentary mandates. And I see these impatient ones entering the government for a month and a half, disappearing in all forms. And as for JUL...
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2373	Mr. Nikolic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2374	In the federal government, SRJ JUL held the most tempting resors. First they were telecommunications, foreign trade, science and development, information, the National Bank and refugees. Anything where there's money. The JUL is no longer worth wasting words on, he's gone. It's a great relief to you. You couldn't get him off your back. And what you're entering with DOS into the government, it's a thank you for getting JUL off your back. I can understand that and I can understand that. You remember in 1994, I said from this pay phone: change, go back to national politics, we'll be able to cooperate. You should never say in politics, but no matter how you go back, in any form, this one of yours, I won't say DOS policing, not to say another word that would suit you more, this is going to cost you a hell of a lot. I'm sure you won't get out of this easily. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2375	Alexander Vukitch asked for a reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2376	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Tomic, past the Rules of Procedure, it was normal and common for you to give me your word first, because that would result in a circle of replicas and responses to replicas, but you didn't do it for your known reasons, I suppose, to show your power a few more times. I don't mind, I have enough patience to wait and I'm calm enough to say what I mean and what I have to say. Mr. Tomovicu, I was not in the government of Mirko Marjanovic, but in the government of the Republic of Serbia I was a minister. That's one of the fundamental differences between the two of us. Nor did Mirko Marjanovic choose me, nor would he choose me. I was elected by the people to the National Assembly, and then the SRS as its representative in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. That's a big difference. As far as the People's Bank of Yugoslavia is concerned, you know better than you do that I know whose authority, authority, and where anyone has any prerogatives. I didn't say at all that it was a republican level, but I was talking about crime in the country and that with the same, who are involved in crime, with the bearers of criminal activity and activity in our country, the key criminal bearers, you are going to the coalition. Could you be an opposition or a government overnight, you can. The moment you're not in the executive authorities, you're the opposition. The moment you enter that government, you become power. It wouldn't be any problem, and it doesn't bother us, the Serbian radicals, or when we're the opposition, which we've been most of our political engagement since 1990, or when we were power, or when we're going to be the opposition again, as you can see, we chose it ourselves. No one forced us to do that. That's what we wanted. We could have participated in this government. You've all offered us that. We in the SRS didn't want that, because we don't want to give legitimacy to the revolution, the coup, the kidnapping, the robbery, the crime. There's no worse crime, Mr. Tomovic, going on. The constitutions have been violated, all norms of civilised behavior have been violated, norms of dozens of laws, criminal legislation and all others. And he can do anything. They still convince us it's democracy. I'm just waiting for the RTS program tonight, these new ones, every time I say that after they burned the old man, to tell us that democracy has arrived, what do you need electricity for, folks? I'm just waiting for them to say that. I don't know, Mr. Angelkovic, it's the one you're going to give you legitimacy and give her legality, because you're going to vote with them. And you didn't want us to continue, in accordance with the law, the First Session of the First Regular Session and pass the RTS Act, and that all of us in this assembly have representatives in RTS I want to say one more thing. [[The President's time is up.]] Those peace stories, like you, are for peace, and someone else is for war, we've been listening for 10 years. I have a son, you don't think I'd want him killed, that someone would like to fight. But, as I don't, and no one in the SRS would do it to anyone else who did these revolutionary committees, we wouldn't beat people up, we wouldn't take guns and rifles past the law, the Constitution, without a state apparatus, believe us that that way we won't let us, and we won't let Nebojsa Covic determine the ministers and who will be the secretary general and president of the party.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2377	Mr. Wolfie, time's up.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2378	We will fight and we will defend ourselves, and Mr Tomic will say, as he knows it well, to explain it to everyone in this room, since everyone is talking about continuity and succession, let him tell you what will happen to this Serbia if Kostunica accepts what is breaking the Constitution every day and what he stands for. You know what's gonna happen? All Beopetrolov pumps will be INI-no, all Beopetrolov pumps in Serbia are Croatian pumps, so tell the people, tell them everything. I know that some of the SPOs don't mind that they belong to the Croats, but there are Serbs who have a problem with that. Thank you for your patience.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2379	Replication response - Zoran Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2380	Once here in the assembly, a few years ago, I was sitting in the back row and an MP said, "Where's Bucky?" I didn't understand what he was calling me for. Then he said, "I'm gonna cut that smile off for him." Unfortunately, no one's ever lifted my smile yet, and I've endured a lot of nasty enemies, both the tanks and the sides and the homework. That's not why I answered. That's why the attack happened. First, I must tell you, I understand such a desire to discuss the Socialist Party of Serbia. You know how, that makes sense. All those who want to make a party or to provide more significant dialers have the largest, largest political party in the country. She is, of course, after these elections, the single political party, the most numerous. She won almost 2 million voters. When a political party in Serbia wins nearly 2 million voters , it will always be the subject of debate with other political parties who want to take a number of voters or members of the political party. [[Laughter in O.R.]] However, the Socialist Party of Serbia has remained the single political party, a strong political party, the strongest individual factor in the Republic of Serbia, despite so much effort, so much desire for the past 10 years. I'm convinced, he'll stay and now, both before congress and after congress, which as a political party we're having. After all, who will be the leadership will not be decided by members of other political parties, but will decide, in a way that may not be logical and possible for you, by the SPS members, by a secret vote in their meetings in the local committees, 250 members of the local SPS board will choose one delegate, and these delegates will choose members of the General Board in their districts and determine candidates for leadership, and Congress will elect leadership. It will continue to be the unitary leadership of the Socialist Party of Serbia. Individuals who have left the Socialist Party of Serbia, for such a powerful party and in these past 10 years, is such a small number, that not even a single political party 10 times smaller with that number can be praised. I believe the time will come that they will return, and some of them are already coming back, because there is no other serious political party like that. In the case of SPS personneling, only the SPS and individual bodies, the SPS members concerned, decide on this. Bane Ivkovic also wanted to make a personal contribution to the implementation of the agreement and to the meeting of the Executive Board of the General Board, and the SPS is so numerous and so strong that everyone in our party has a place to be. When it comes to presidential elections, just two sentences. The first, as you might have noticed from the Official List, on the announcement of the President of the SRJ, it is clear that after the decision of the Federal Court, which we, of course, recognize and respect, whether or not she agrees with it, and whether she...
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2381	Please, it's time for the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2382	..... Whether she was respected or not, he received 50.24%, with no votes from Kosovo and Metohija. Only if 11,600 votes from Kosovo and Metohija were recognised would it receive less than 50%. If only it had been recognised in those places, in Kosovo Pomoravlje, Leposavic or Zubina Potok, it would have been below 50%. The emissaries are getting out of place. )
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2383	Please, don't get out of the place.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2384	It's not recognised because it was voted until 4:00. Okay, those are facts for the truth. I am convinced that in these upcoming republican elections no vote in any Serbian village will be annulled for any reason. I believe it is the interest of Serbian radicals and all other political parties who want well to the Serbian people both in Kosovo and Metohija and who want Serbia well.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2385	Mr. Nikolic, sit down. First of all, let's make a deal, that's enough replicas. I'll just let you go, and I'll conclude the principle debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2386	Mr. President, don't you think you're doing something to me Mr. President, you're not doing anything to me right now. [[jamour in the O.R.]] According to Article 100 of Item 5, I have the right to retrieval twice.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2387	You have another right, please, but don't speak for more than three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2388	Five minutes you're telling me I don't have the right to a replica, and then when I tell you I do, you're giving me my word. You will give a word to anyone who has asked, this is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2389	I gave you a new time.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2390	Why is there so much discussion here about the SPS? You are guilty of this chaos. Your behavior has led to this chaos. That you didn't confess first thing in the morning that you lost the presidential election. That's how you legalized those bulldozers. That the police were under your command, that trucks across Serbia were driving construction machines to destroy Belgrade, and you didn't do anything about it. That your police didn't protect the facilities in Belgrade. It's not like he was supposed to shoot, he was just supposed to stop the Federal Assembly from setting fire to the Radio Television building. That's why we go out so much for a pay phone. Oh, my God, you don't have any responsibility. I asked you nicely today - did you cheat on the president to win or did you tell him he lost, so he ordered you to steal? The issue must be cleared up here today, because all citizens of Serbia, who are not with DOS, are at risk at this time. Let each bear part of his responsibility, but exactly what he's responsible for. It will still turn out to be the fault of the Serbian Radical Party, which only had the results of the election that night, which has recognised Vojislav Kostunica's victory. If we had kept our mouths shut, who would have proved the victory of Vojislav Kostunica? Who else had votes from all the polling stations? This is what drives us today to discuss how the past elections have been and how those who have led to all this suddenly accept that, under the conditions they are being handled, they form a new government of the Republic of Serbia. I'm honestly telling you, if we were working, we'd rather vote for the turu government that DOS itself would form than let our people be harassed and humiliated there. What do you think will happen at the government's meetings? He will wrap his hands behind people's backs, threaten the Hague with any of your ministers who opposes any decision of the government. That government will rule for two months. Right, Mr. Mikovic? What does Dinkic want now? To remain the regulations which we have maintained order and peace in the country under abnormal circumstances, to remain, to God, as valid, to have cover. Let them bring them in. I don't know who you are, whose are you? [[tossing out of the O.R.]] Did I give you one word today?
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2391	Please, don't get out of the place.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2392	You're too small to notice. I'm the one who's noticing these SPS majors. What are you getting mixed up in? These are serious stories. This is about the state. That's what this is about, dear gentlemen. We don't find you interesting. You will vote today as you were told and see to it that you keep some more crumbs of dignity. You'll tell the family - this was best for the country to come out of chaos, so that the child would not be torn apart, for God's sake, you are now the mother who cares about the child. You've been thinking about taking care of the child. What you weren't worried about on October 5th, the child was torn apart on October 5th. Now you're just giving that one torn back part of the DOS to stick, to patch, and the kid's been ripped off. You held the president's position tight, they took him with all their might. You've torn Serbia apart. Look at what the Duke's Assembly looks like.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2393	Mr. Nikolic, time.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2394	Vesenov has the right to remain silent, he is waiting for this assembly to be completed, he is running to write a resolution to detach Vojvodina. He's only arguing with Canka about who's gonna be president, not about what Vojvodina's gonna look like. They will first share what is there, to separate into their villages, into their Ataris, into their municipalities. You don't think about it anymore. You're putting the country in a position where whoever mentions the nation, the country, can lose the election because you've been acting like people who are going to defend the country, so the people have been disgusted by such defenders of the country. They have been defenders since 1991, who said Croatia can go, cannot take out Serbs and export Serbian territories. Croatia's gone, it's recognised enough. Well, the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so here's the DOS ending the recognition of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So Kosovo and Metohija Bernard Kushner...
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2395	Time's up, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2396	I'm done. That's why you lost the election, but it was an honor to admit it. That's the thing, you couldn't admit the election. Who guarantees you that DOS will confess and beat him in December? By which you will defeat DOS if you beat him with votes, how you will take over his power. You wouldn't happen to bring the machines, would you? They took those machines from you. The police are not in your hands. What's the police general under your command? None. What's national security doing to us? How come state security didn't warn certain people that they were being targeted by an armed group of 30 people...
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2397	Time's up, Mr. Nikolic. You've used your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2398	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2399	There is a word from MP Dragan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2400	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, it is difficult to speak after such a speaker as the deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party, Mr Tomislav Nikolic. Mr Tomislav Nikolic was the party's candidate for president in the 24 September elections this year. Before that election in the election campaign, we were silenced. We weren't on old Serbian television. Now after October 5th, we are not even on new television, Serbian Radio-Television. What changed for us Serbian radicals? Absolutely nothing. They want to silence us, that we're gone again, that there's no voice, that there's no Serbian radical on TV. Now we've got... again.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2401	Please, get to the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2402	Mr. President, I need to make an introduction.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2403	This is what we heard. Please go back to the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2404	You're not from me.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2405	Please, we heard, please stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2406	I'm Dragan Nikolic, you can't drive me away like that. We started a session of the Republika Srpska Assembly without any transmission. We Serbian radicals have made a proposal and made a unanimous decision here in the Assembly that it is being transmitted and that the whole of Serbia sees the transfer of this assembly without doing so. So, you'd be drowned like some reporters here were trying, among other things, to threaten me. They were trying to be physically accounted for in today's assembly, however...
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2407	Please return to your agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2408	I am an MP for the Serbian Radical Party...
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2409	Mr. Nikolic, please return to your agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2410	Here, I'm going back to the agenda. The force that the Socialist Party of Serbia launched in the pre-election campaign against the Serbian Radical Party has now returned to you as a boomerang. All those strong, all those strong who wouldn't allow our membership...
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2411	Mr. Nikolic, I'll take your word for it if you don't talk about the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2412	Well, here's to the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2413	No, it's not about the law. Please start talking about the law. Otherwise I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2414	Let me tell you, all of this preceded this bill. I have to make an introduction...
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2415	No, no, you made an introduction.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2416	I have to make an introduction why... All this is absolutely about the law and please don't interrupt me. I start with a story, and you...
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2417	Mr. Nikolic, please, you're breaking the Rules of Procedure, and I can't let you do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2418	The twenty-fourth gentlemen of the Socialists, that is, your president, have lost the election. You didn't want to admit it. You didn't want to admit the election will. It came October 5th and what happened happened. We immediately acknowledged the victory of Vojislav Kostunica. Our president congratulated him.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2419	Mr. Nicolé, since you won't talk about the agenda point...
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2420	The draft law supplementing the Ministry Act is on the agenda. Is that it?
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2421	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2422	Great. In addition, Article 24 is added which reads...
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2423	The MPs got the law and you don't have to read it. You can discuss the law. You can't read.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2424	I don't know what I can do with this pay phone. Obviously, you haven't managed this congregation in 10 days or 15. Now suddenly it appears that you MPs of the Serbian Radical Party are forbidden to speak from this pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2425	Mr. Nikolic, everyone who opposes the Rules of Procedure must be warned and subject to their sanctions. Be kind enough to talk about the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2426	As far as I know, sanctions have been lifted from Serbia, and now you would like to impose sanctions on the MPs. Serbian Radical Party MPs will certainly not vote for the law. There's a lot of reasons for that. Because the SPS MPs have now hidden themselves from those thugs in the mouse holes. They got scared by a couple of bulldozers, a couple of bastards, people who got out of jail, and now you want to amnesty one state of lawlessness, a state where he was doing whatever he wanted. With the DOS and the crisis headquarters's confidence, state institutions, public enterprises, have been taken over by the assembly and the government. You with this law want to legitimize and return to legal flows something that hasn't been legal in 15 days. Something that happened during the flood, the earthquake was a violation of the law, no matter what happened at the time. It's possible that the courts didn't work at the time, because they were inaccessible criminals who did it, but now that everything I've been talking about has passed, now you want to legalize this situation. Mr. President of the Assembly obviously decided to break up the discussion I wanted to have and I'll probably get back to you one more time that what I wanted to say and say. However, we from the Serbian Radical Party will not vote for the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2427	He has the word Goran Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2428	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, some SPS MPs say that those who want to come to power, that's this DOS, have no influence on their party, and just by passing this law, it's denying it. I'm just going to read the reason why this law is passed. So, just because they want MPs to leave the coalition or only the SPS to adopt this law, they deny that DOS is not involved in their infrastructure. Only the insistence of the DOS representative, Neboja Covic, that the minister not be Branislav Ivkovic also deny them, but I am surprised by one other thing. Why don't they make a condition for those who want to come to power so that Nebojsa Covic doesn't exist, because he was theirs once, so they kicked him out. So it could happen that the SPS has more personnel here. As for how the SPS got the votes, I'll show on the case of my Municipality of Doljevac. In the Doljevac municipality, where I live, they emptied the Red Cross and distributed all humanitarian aid to the people - voters and those households with five or six votes. And the harder and more dangerous, the more we shared the sadamo where it wasn't necessary, the more the SPS candidates, who were candidates for the council. So that's where those 1,900,000 votes came from. Now, let's see if it has 1,900,000 votes now, I believe it's going to be much, much less. It's an honor to some members of the SPS, but that's true, gentlemen. I just wanted to say that Serbian radicals don't want to legalize this kidnapping, they don't want to legalize crisis headquarters, they don't want to bring Fascism back to life, they don't want to put the young Lenin in office, they're doing this now, and we're going to vote against it through the institutions of the system, and we're not going to vote for this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2429	Thank you. There is a word from MP Dragan Milovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2430	Mr. President, gentlemen of Parliament, today, on this day, we have come to this assembly, who knows which way, to see what the gentlemen of the SPS coalition, SPS and DOS will do, as they say, to remove the burden from the people's necks. Modern world practice has not recorded a case that took place in the territory of the state of Yugoslavia and Serbia. As I recall, as well as all of you here, as well as the entire Serbian people, that the federal elections for the president of the federal state and for the Federal Parliament, the Greater Citizens and the Greater Republic have been called. It's over. I can easily tell you that I'm the first person to discover theft in Prokuplje, neither DOS nor SPO, but radical, and excellently, the SPS gentlemen know what was going on. I'm sorry Angelkovic isn't here. As Angelkovic said, Serbian votes from Kosovo and Metohija are being taken, and on the day of the election and 3-4 days before that, I was in Kosovo and Metohija. I'd like Mr. Angelkovic to answer what he did to those 30 million he raised from the budget at the expense of displaced persons from Kosovo and Metohija? Why in the evening in Gracanica, Čaglavica, Preoc, Laplem Sela, from house to house divided between 1,000 to 1,500 dinars - that is money for votes. Did you know it was all the voices of Serbian radicals? And DOS -- and DOS wasn't sitting for nothing, and they were handing out stamps. The only one who didn't have any-- they didn't have radicals. From where? I came out of Cosmet, came to Serbia, went back to Cosmet, even in Podujevo, where the three minutes came from, three minutes came. In Lužana - I was in Lužana, in Brvenik - I was in Brvenik, in Brajina - I was in Brajina, with three cars. No one knew that Dragan Milovanovic came in from Podujevo, that he was in Podujevo, but I came in. And the records come in, we sign, and they sign my sister-in-law who lives in Nis, that she was in a polling post in Lužana. Well, that's nowhere to be found, gentlemen. I'm telling you about Kosovo, brothers and sisters MPs, here, in this House, I haven't heard from you since you left Kosovo, not a word, what the hell have you been silent about? We are fighting for power, but we have lost Kosovo. Look what Kouchner's saying. He's been wanting to stay for 20 years. That I can't go to my mother's grave for 20 years. It is only the government, not the Serbian people and Serbian interests. You can't do that. I appeal to the Members of Parliament from Kosovo and Metohija, let them think carefully about what they are doing. They remember the SPO excellently when they arrived in July to sell us Kosovo, along with the Socialists. The only ones who protected this Serbian people's Kosovo and Metohija were radicals. No one transmitted it at the time, it was closed to the public by this congregation. This bill, proposed, appears to be based on an agreement. Now we're going to sit here, in this assembly, make an agreement and immediately propose that we turn it into a law. That's weird. Why is it strange - it resembles this agreement and this bill, it says, I will read the reasons: "The signatories of an emergency parliamentary election in the Republic of Serbia agree that elections for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, 23 December, will be educated by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which will be attended by representatives of the signatories of the agreement, the SPS, the DOS, the DOS. The Prime Minister's decisions will be reached in full agreement." As far as I can see, there's a charter here, I'd call it, in a Balkan way, and here there are gentlemen, like the Security Council -- permanent members, who can hit the veto, but it's known -- this constant member has as much, and this constant one has as much. Therefore, why is this government being educated -- to make it easier (here, to pass on to the Serbian people) to try to hold elections. That's her goal, man. Well, no one thinks about this people. If it weren't for us still worrying about the Serbian people, we would have died for you. Secondly, I would prefer to have some draft law on Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija on the agenda, which remained to live there, which were displaced. They know very well from the SPS, in these municipalities where they came from, what it's like for them, whether they have a roof over their heads, whether they have to eat, whether they have shoes and clothes for children. That's what I'd like to discuss. But it looks like the Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, the ones who came out, they all forgot. They're not interested in Serbia, they were good for votes. And now, the DOS and SPS are on their way. I get daily reports. They're carrying something, they're breaking up, this, that, like, they're already being called elections. The elections, as far as I know, are not called and will be called. But I say this -- who is also a small lawyer -- it is said this way: "The President of the Republic will discuss the elections of the moment when the Government, on a reasoned proposal, means not the work of the Assembly, delivers to the President and discuss extraordinary elections." And it's gone now, so now there's nothing left, there's a general call here. Why do you call it a ride? I have to go ahead and back, because this is where the introduction comes in, and the development, and the explanation, so slowly as far as it goes. We're done with the election now. Why don't we build a federal government, so nice, in a legal way, when conditions are created, we'll spread out nice and republican elections. No, we don't need that, we need the ride, we need the one that was in Albania. What, the beginning of watching, the word of honor, I felt sorry for being a Serb, what was done. I don't like socialists, I never loved them, not as people, but as a party, and there are those I don't like as people. But why, if he was like a man in a directorial post, so he has in the system a law and a way to change and set up another one, and these crisis headquarters, how do they form? It's a shame. Why didn't he do DOS next. Elections for the SR of Yugoslavia were scheduled and were scheduled for the president of the SR of Yugoslavia. Which doesn't go the same way and take over Montenegro's TV, Milo Djukanovic. Why didn't it go to Milo Djukanovic's parliament and give him conditions? He can't. Not "suck" Milo Djukanovic to anyone. When you look, he doesn't even recognize the legally elected president of Yugoslavia.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2431	Please, time's up. Mr. Milovanovic, it's been ten minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2432	Your time's up, mine's not up. I've been waiting three years to go out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2433	It's been ten minutes, please finish your discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2434	It has been said that this bill is something specific, and I say it is the law in a Balkan way. In order not to forget, I invite my brothers from Cosmet, they know how they became MPs, they know very well. We've had the same pain, and radicals, and socialists, and SPO.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2435	Please, Mr. Milovanovic, it's been ten minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2436	Let me just say two words.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2437	Don't speak out of the agenda. You talked about the law and you ended it.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2438	It's just a work-up.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2439	I suggest a 15-minute break. [[After a break.]] There is a word from the people sent by Momir Markovic, and let MP Dragan Covic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2441	There are strange coincidences throughout history, ladies and gentlemen MPs. Lenin, a German spy, came to Russia on a German train, burned down, robbed, and then killed at the First KP Bolshevik Congress, legalizing everything they did and what they would do in the next period. And so Russia has been moaning for 70 years under this revolutionary power. Tito, a German spy, a Russian shayun, rides in Belgrade in Russian tanks, and previously legalizes everything they have done so far and everything they will do to Serbia and the Serbian people for the next 50 years. DOS, or gray DOS eminence, the German spy on the US bulldozer, came in on October 5th afternoon, after acknowledging the election results and after Mr. Kostunica received satisfaction, he was admitted to being elected president of Yugoslavia, the gray DOS eminence on the bulldozer fell and annulled half of Belgrade, burned out old RTS, a assembly that neither burned nor burned Hitler when he left, but left it healthy and whole.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2442	Mr. Markovic, the law is on the agenda, be nice, talk about the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2443	This is an introduction, Mr. President, you've all allowed an introduction, so allow me. After this, I come to the law. I'm just saying all this because of that law. The SRS ministers resigned the day before the Prime Minister resigned, and today we were the only ones to say that those resignations had been filed. You gentlemen didn't find it appropriate to say... What's happened since October 5th? The power's gone...
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2444	Mr. Markovic, please go to law.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2445	That's exactly what I'm talking about. Mr. President, this law is the legalization of this Bolshevik revolution, which DOS has implemented and planned with all its friends and friends. While the bombs were dropping on Belgrade, he went and planned this. Electricity is gone, two groups are excluded, I don't believe now that half of Serbia has electricity, and even when it does, and what it has will be 10 times more expensive. Labus, who you're planning for the vice president of the federal government, whom DOS gentlemen, your partners are planning, for the vice president...
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2446	If you don't start talking to Mr. Markovic about the law, I'll take your word for it. It's my right.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2447	Mr. President, it's the law all the time, what is this law going to legalize, what is it going to produce and what is going to come out of that law? The second time I go out for this pay phone, and if these coalition partners of yours have ordered you to take away my word, then take it away from me, but I want it not to you, but to the people of Serbia, if it's still being transferred, if the one in the cabin hasn't already started to convince me, to cover me... The electricity's gone, sugar's been 9.00 dinars so far, and now it's 45.00 dinars. The people have no money to buy.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2448	Mr. Markovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2449	The people are not interested in the data, for example, that Marijan Risticevic walked for four months, because no one wanted to take him in the hands of him as he is, but the people are very interested in what Marijan Risticevic and his associates will do with Serbia and Vojvodina....
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2450	Mr. Markovic, will you move to the agenda or should I take your word for it?
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2451	It's this law, which you want us to adopt, that legalizes all of this and allows all of this to be legalized and legalized.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2452	Mr. Markovic, if you're not talking about the law, I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2453	As far as the law is concerned, you, who remain in the transitional government, which we need to regulate by this law, to explain to the people why all this is more expensive. You will have to explain that the coldest and most hungry winter of the war is coming to the citizens of Serbia. Probably the SPS will have to explain it to the people, because their employer, DOS, will transfer that hot potato to their hands. There are shortages, astronomical prices, which you will legalize with this law, there is darkness and lawlessness, and we have a situation that is now in Republika Srpska. Citizens of Serbia should not be surprised to begin to smite US tanks through Pavlovic's Turkey from Republika Srpska through Serbia and here in Belgrade. This revolutionary state of affairs is what you're trying to legalize with this law and you're thinking, respected socialist gentlemen, that you're going to do something in the next election. Well, Djindjic is a maher to conduct the election. Micunovic and Djindjic, Djindjic's people were counting votes, I think Vesic and Micunovic called in history, at least as far as the Democratic Party is concerned. Paroski and Djindjic, Djindjic Vesic counted votes, Paroski went into history. Vukasanovic and Djindjic...
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2454	Mr. Markovic, you've already gone too far, please, I've turned off your microphone. There is a word from MP Dragan Colic, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Aleksandar Chotric.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2455	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as an MP of the SRS, I am very concerned about the fate of our country. There was a revolution in our country, a coup, a beautiful building of the SRJ Assembly was burned down, a building of RTS was burned down, a revolutionary committee formed. Serbia's police, which has no authority now, are terrified of standing still, even in front of the most common fuckhouse. How are we going to get the Serbian police back to their fallen authority? Fucker's in charge, cop's listening and standing still. Who's responsible for this, have the police generals been removed? Still faceless and morale-bearing acts, and the Serbian police stand still in front of the fucker.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2456	Mr. Colic, there's a law on the agenda. Please talk about the law, or else I can't let you talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2457	As far as the proposed law is concerned, it is impossible to speak of it without reference to the events that preceded it. If we had respected the laws in our Serbia in recent times, as should this proposed law, above all, the electoral law, and all others, would not have discussed it now. DOS promises great money from abroad to a troubled people, and that money will never arrive, and if and how it does, it will be like Judah’s 30 silver coins, which are the price for betraying their lands. I will not be surprised if soon the Ustasha chief Stipe Mesic comes to our Belgrade for a return visit, to drive in an open car with President Kostunica, and the students from schools are waving at them the flags with satanic markings or triangles of the Masonic or European Union. Zarko Korać and Nenad Canak have already visited Zagreb, so they should expect a return visit to Stipe Mesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2458	Mr. Colic, you're talking about the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2459	In my Smederev, I witnessed that the officials of the Democratic Party of Serbia proudly waved a trophy from the Federal Assembly, a chair, with no shame, no fear, no cheeks and no scruples.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2460	Mr. Colic, please speak of the law. Otherwise, I have to take your word for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2461	They talk about themselves in their behavior. Suddenly Canak was on TV the other day.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2462	Mr. Colic, don't stick to the agenda, I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2463	Mr. President, I'm going to report you to Zoran Djindjic, so what are you going to do?
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2464	I'll take the same word from you. No more words, Mr. Cholic. I turned off your microphone. You won't hear from me on TV. I'm sorry. Be kind, step in to another pay phone. There's a word from MP Alexander Chotric.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2465	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the agenda item we are discussing today is the result of a political agreement since 16 October, an agreement signed by SPS, DOS and SPS representatives. I will immediately say that SPO MPs will also vote for this proposal to supplement the Ministry Act, as well as for the election of the transitional government of the Republic of Serbia, but I must point out with a sense of bitterness, because our party's demands regarding the resignations of Serbia's top justice people, namely the President of the Supreme Court of Serbia, Mr Balša Govedarica and the Republic's Public Prosecutor Dragisa Krsmanovic, as well as the head of the interior ministry, Mr Radet Markovic, who serves as Head of State Security. I must say that the Serbian Renewal Movement, as I pointed out, will vote in favour of the election of the transitional government, because it was obviously the goal of the SPS and the DOS, which all these days led some secret separatist agreements, with the aim of not supporting the transitional government and that our party be charged with it in front of the Serbian public. However, the SPO is the party that has always put national and state interests first, and we have clearly, already on 10 January, at the DOS founding meeting, which was held, to remind, in the SPO rooms, under the chairmanship of our party, Mr Vuk Draskovic, that elections in Serbia will be held at all levels. We only had local elections in Serbia in September. It is therefore necessary to hold both parliamentary and presidential elections. I must point out that the SPS representatives in the negotiations also advocated holding presidential elections, but for reasons unknown to us, the SPS and the DOS have rejected such elections. The public in Serbia needs to know. As far as the SPO is concerned, we are in favour of ensuring the personal and property security of all citizens in Serbia as soon as possible. This should also be provided by this agreement, and should be provided by a transitional government that will function until the emergency parliamentary elections are held on December 23rd. I must say why we demanded the resignation of the Serb judiciary's leaders and why we asked for Radet Markovic's resignation.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2466	Please stick to the agenda, Mr. Chotric.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2467	We asked because it is necessary, as I have already mentioned, to establish a legal state in our country, to ensure security for citizens, because during the rule of the ruling parties, this security did not exist. The citizens were really threatened, not only in public places, they didn't feel safe in their homes either. In the last few years, SDB, or MUP, has not resolved several hundred murders. There are estimated to be over 500, to God's unexposed murders, a huge sin of service, led by Interior Minister Vlajko Stojljkovic and one of the most prominent representatives and Mr Rade Markovic. I have to say that four members of our party were killed in October last year, that in April of last year, Slavko Curuvija, the journalist who founded the Daily Telegraph, was kidnapped in October of last year, and that he was still in prison by former SDB member Vladimir Nikolic, that this year Ivan Stambolic, former president of Serbia, was kidnapped and that he still did not know his fate, even if he was alive and that there were so many failures in the work of the MUP and the judicial authorities, that these people, that they had been honorary, had to resign themselves, and not that they were asked to do so on political negotiations and that the SPO asked for it. Therefore, this is not done, with the explanation of the SPS and the DOS that the oral guarantee is sufficient, that their word is firmer than any signature and that within just seven days, officials will resign. They did not agree to sign an annex agreement that these people would be resolved, i.e. to resign, although the president of our party, Mr Vuk Draskovic, also discussed this with the guarantor of the agreement, with SRJ President Dr Vojislav Kostunica, who also felt it was necessary to sign an annex agreement, but not because the SPO is now insisting on it without it being agreed on 16 October. On the contrary, we only asked that the agreement be consistently implemented, which says at one point - that the signatories of the agreement require the Serbian Ministry of Serbia to extradite persons suspected of assassination to SPS President Vuk Draskovic, who was executed in Budva on 15 June. So I don't know why DOS and SPS representatives refused to put it on paper, that the agreement would be implemented by the end. They refused, and I must say that the next step of the SPO will be that we will make the right decisions after the end of those promised seven days, which will be notified to the public of Serbia. I say, we agreed not to be accused of obstructing the agreement, although we trust the communists, just as the late writer Borislav Mihajlović-Michiz said - "The word communist is as to write on ice, and then bring it to the fire."
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2468	The messenger of the people, Mita Avramov, has the word, and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Dragan Ljubojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2469	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it's very difficult for us Serbian radicals to come to this pay phone and talk about some law, some new law that violates the current law, the Constitution and all the normative forms of this country. If we want to talk about laws, then those who break them should respect existing laws. So we have to stick to some order and some form. First, a federal government must be established. When it is built, republican elections can be called into question. We agreed to that. The will of the people will give mandates in the people's parliament to the people, the parties, and whoever gets an absolute majority here will be able to decide, create, make some other laws and change everything they don't care about so far. In this case, you can't do that. We are asked to break the laws that we have passed and to adopt, to violate those same laws. Why break them if they were good. They were good for everyone, just not good for DOS. Gentlemen, let the DOS go to the republic's elections, so if he gets most of them, here's the Assembly. Let them make laws. Let them do whatever they want and justify all the votes they get from the people. That'll be the hardest part of their job. It's hard for them now. They're not aware of that yet. Only if they think someone on the side will come, some foreign leader who will run all of this, our entire system, and their task is just to wipe it out, to make it all go away from the political scene that has been legitimately chosen by this people in this House and federal. They are making legislation on ministries, some transitional laws, say an agreed agreement. I don't know what the deal is. They say an agreement, a milder form. It was a pure blackmail in which radicals refused to participate. Radicals have come out of the Republic government proudly. Why did they come out? All our ministers resigned because DOS threatened to re-emerge the people on the street, re-burn Belgrade and shed blood. Serbian radicals won't allow it. Serbian radicals value every drop of the people's blood, especially Serbia. For that reason, because of the peace in the house, we've come out, so let the gentlemen choose to make arrangements if they think it's good and it's the right thing to do. Our ministers have performed their duties with honor, security and honesty at their responsibilities. None of our ministries can be said to have been involved in any kind of malfeasance, any sale or any blackmail. We had one agreement when it first entered the government, when our most honorable men from our ranks were chosen, when they accepted these great responsibilities, it was said loud and clear -- gentlemen who cannot accept this, let not be caught. And commissions were formed, which went to register property for our ministers in their current state. These commissions will now go after their resignations to register property, to see if they have performed their duty with honor and integrity. We all know what a minister's salary is and we all know that no minister could get rich in two and a half years from that salary, with which he had a hard time surviving. Because they've been solidarity with the people. We knew what the workers' salaries were, what pensions they were. This commission is tasked with doing it again after their resignations have been made. I'd love to, if you adopt, and we won't vote for this bill for sure, but if you vote for it and you adopt it, it's only for these two months how long this government will last, because it can't do for this country any movement in these 60 days. No government has succeeded, so neither will this one, but I would like the committees to be formed to come to those ministers or groups of ministers who will manage certain ministries, to list the property they have and after they leave that government, so that the commission will register that property to see what they have done for their needs for these two months. Because they only aim to bring down a complete system in this country, a complete constitution. That doesn't suit them, or their mentors. Their job is to do it because they got the money for it, and when the mentors come, then they'll be handling all of us, not just them. So I urge the people from this pay phone to come to these republican elections, to judge well and think carefully before they come out and give votes to those they consider to be the best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2470	He has the word National MP Dragan Ljubojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2471	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the draft law supplementing the Ministry Act proposed by the "Government of Serbia" is on the agenda. We have heard in previous discussions of government members in the resignations of the Serbian Radical Party that this is not true. And in an explanation of the reasons for the adoption of this law, it is stated that an annex to the agreement on the calling of early parliamentary elections in the Republic of Serbia has come to the proposal for such a law. What preceded this law and this agreement were the elections held on 24 September on which Serbian citizens defined themselves and the public knew the results of these elections, and the SRS is the only political organisation that came out first on our scene with accurate and accurate election data. These data, with which the SRS went public, coincide with data published later by the Federal Election Commission, or the Constitutional Court, therefore, the fact is that Vojislav Kostunica won the first round of elections. The Socialist Party of Serbia and the Federal Election Commission tried to deny and reverse the citizens' electoral will and what happened on October 5th was the result of attempts to end the election will of citizens. However, the moment that Vojilav Kostunica was inaugurated as president of the SRJ, everything that happened after that moment, following a session at the Sava Centre, after taking an oath, is a pure crime and constitutes a coup. This agreement, signed between the Democratic opposition, the SPS and the SPS, is a violation and a way for the DOS to legalise everything that has been done in these 15 days. We are all aware that many companies, NBJ, SPP, Serbia's radio-television, which was partially destroyed, have included DOS activists in some form of crisis headquarters, with baseball bats and automatic weapons, as they have declared themselves, and are kidnapping these companies. And what's worse, they bring the biggest scum and scum to the leading places in these companies. And now, we are coming into a situation that the DOS, which really formally has no power in Serbia, except for part of the government at the local level, is not even on the federal level, where both homes of the Federal Assembly are established, so, the Greater Citizens and the Greater Republic, there is no absolute majority, so there is no legislative authority at this point. The Republic's parliament is not present because the parties from the current DOS are present in a very small number, because some MPs are now DOS members, so they do not have legislative authority at the republic's level either. As far as the federal and republican governments are concerned, they're in resignation. So DOS doesn't have any legal and legitimate authority. In public, however, some DOS representatives appear with the thesis and the fact that they are new authorities. So they're really controlling some institutions, and in that part they're government, but that power they're now running and those institutions they control don't control in a legal and legal way. And that's why they need laws like this, they need a transitional government to legalize everything they've done. Otherwise, all of these, starting with Mladjan Dinkic, and down, Captain Dragan and others, who have taken businesses, should be able to answer for what they've been doing. They are now trying to accuse the SRS and this current composition of the Serbian government that it is responsible for rampaging the price, that it is her fault that the bread is now 10, 14, somewhere and 15 dinars. Look, it's not about a kilo of bread, it's not about one kilo of bread, it's about a century of 600 grams, and it's about 15 dinars. Oil is 52, 56, 60 dinars. Sugar is 30 to 40 dinars, and it's 60 dinars at stake. All that happened, that stampede, that rampage price, started on October 6th, the 5th, they still had no time, because on the night between October 5th and 6th, they made a coup. So, on 6 October, 7 October, 8 October, 9, 10, the government of Serbia, i.e. the "offensive messenger" published the first Regulation on the placing out of force, i.e. the termination of the Regulation on measures to prevent and eliminate disturbances on the market, caused by the abuse of a monopoly position. The importance of this regulation was meaningless and pointless for a simple reason that in those 3.4 or 5 days, the Serbian government tried to do something. The police are no longer under the control of the Serbian government, and the government cannot return anything to its original state, or, no decision, no legal act, can play any role without the police. Afterwards, in the "Official Messenger" of 18 October, it means 12 days after the start of the fertilisation of prices, a series of regulations have been adopted on the termination of the product price regulation, then on the termination of the Regulation on specific conditions for the sale of coal domestic production, also on the suspension of the validity of the Regulation on the determination of the number of coal brokers in the transport of mineral fertilisers to a large extent, and only on 18 October of the Regulation on the termination of the Regulation on the subsidisation of the production of edible oil in 2000. Was it perhaps October 18th that the oil was harvested? Long before. And a whole series of regulations. The Serbian government has kept these mechanisms, with severe pain, but thus safeguarded the standard of citizens. In this period, which is behind us, Serbian citizens could eat, if nothing else. We had the cheapest electricity in the world, 10 times cheaper than the world's price. Now the man they're proposing to vice president of the federal government, Miroljub Labus, announces that the price will be global, the price of electricity. So 10 times the price of electricity. Will there be citizens in Serbia who will be able to pay that kind of electricity bill? There's nothing out of the promised help, they're just empty promises. None of the countries in our environment got any help when the Americans managed to implement their plans and bring them to power so-called. Democratic forces. Let's turn around, look at Romania, look at Bulgaria, look at Macedonia, look at Albania, look at the Republic of Serbia, just our closer environment. So DOS came here to implement American politics. The coup in Serbia was directly commanded by William Montgomery, a former US ambassador to Zagreb, and all that happened here is the result of US politics in the Balkans. The Socialists have done a lot of good to make this happen, in one part they have justified the citizens' revolt by not recognising the election results, and all that happens afterwards is pure crime. And yet again you will participate and you will give the legality and legitimacy of what happened after October 5th, if you vote this and this government. Should we call her a transitional government, should we call her a provisional government? You can call her whatever you want, but it's actually a crisis headquarters, a forced administration, which DOS imposed primarily on you, and the SPO, but first of all on you. Another thing that's significant is that it's one of the so-called members. The new authorities, Mladjan Dinkic, publicly announced on TV that if producers do not lower the price of edible oil, he will sell humanitarian aid, which comes from abroad at much lower prices. Imagine, please, publicly. I know that some socialist directors and some people who were in the Red Cross were humanitarian aid coming from abroad misusing and directing to other directions and other channels, but in that direction that was the basic purpose, but it has really not happened so far that anyone publicly says they will be selling humanitarian aid.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2472	There's a word from the People's Messenger Bogoljub Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2473	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I don't really know what this is about. What exactly do you want with this obstruction? You say the expensive oil, the expensive sugar, it's all expensive, and what authority has it accumulated? Is a new government formed? We don't give to form a new power, you don't want to form a new power. When a new government is formed at the level of the Federal State, at the level of the Republic, then you can assess the impact of the new government. Who do you think will send international aid when there's no government here? There is neither federal nor republican. So whoever is guilty, the elections are wrong, and the people have expressed their desire to change power, and we do not allow that authority to change. You don't, you're here in Parliament. It says here the police are under DOS control. That's not true. The police are under the control of Mrs Mira Markovic. Under Mrs. Mira Markovic's control, the police remain. And it's under the control of Rad Markovic, her last name. Rade Markovic, the successor of the famous Bećarevic, a Serb beatinger, from whom I received police, as chairman of the Security Committee of this assembly in 1993. Rade Markovic, who beat up hundreds of prisoners personally, as head of Belgrade police, even the women slapped handcuffs on the radiator and pulled them by the hair. You're protecting Radet Markovic. But I understand why you are protecting Radet Markovic, but I don't understand why Mr Djindjic is protecting him, who made a statement last year that he had to leave Serbia because he was threatening Rade Markovic. That's not clear to me. So, please, if you want to assess the effect of the new government, let that authority form. If we were to assess the impact of this ten-year-old government, if we were to assess the impact of the so-called government. People's unity for three years, so let's evaluate the impact and these new governments, we won't replace it with tanks and cannons, because by democratic procedure alone, if it doesn't get better. Therefore, Mr. Radicals, this beatinginian named Rade Markovic will turn against you, as well as Bećarevic when he was arrested, so they brought him to the UN, he said - as I served the occupiers, I will serve you, so that Rade Markovic will turn on you. Because to him, he's just an important master. He's not the head of state security to take care of the security of citizens, he's been taught to take care of the regime's safety.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2474	He has the word National MP Tomislav Nikolic - replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2475	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is not true what Mr. Pejcic is saying, that we are preventing the formation of a new government in Serbia. I don't know where he lives. For 17 days, the new government has been burning and burning with Serbia. It's a government that has set a new course of dinars, it's a government that has set a new course of oil derivatives, it's a government that has set up a health participation, it's a government that's taken over all the supplies of drugs, it's the authority that gave Galenika to one suspicious guy, a charlatan from America, a state-owned factory, put a charlatan in his hands. He says there's no raw materials to produce drugs. Here, on the seventh day, there's a list of raw materials in Galennica. Galenika doesn't start working, it's such a storehouse of raw materials. The seventh day takes place in Galennica. What bothers you is a one-day debate in the Serbian Parliament about the new government. Well, I guess the new government deserves to be discussed one day. Whether the federal elections have been made, Mr. Pejcic, so where is this new federal government, which should be the result of the new federal elections. You want to force yourself here, without debate, to form the government of the Republic of Serbia even though there was no choice in Serbia. You say there is no new government in Serbia. Well, who's the wild one? Who took over all the TVs in Serbia? Who took over all the media in Serbia? Who discusses in the Chamber of Commerce about prices? Who? DOS representatives. Of course, there's no SPO. But don't read to us here that we want to defend Radet Markovic. I've never even met him. His officers beat me here in the assembly, not you, Mr. Pejcic. You know what you know about UDBY and OZNI, you know it from there because you worked there. And I know from my back, Mr. Pejci. I've had it on my back. The new government brought the CIA here. It was all done in Budapest, where the leaders went to the bow, where you kissed Madeline Albright, Hitler where you kissed your hand. This is just the result of the aggression that was committed in Yugoslavia last year. She didn't make it armed, after a year, she made it political. Don't ask anything of the National Assembly of Serbia why today's debate is taking place. What bothers you is the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Why didn't you run to Montenegro to tell Milo Djukanovic that DOS wants to join the Republic government of Montenegro because it is wanted by citizens of the SR of Yugoslavia. There are no DOS commissioners on the TV of Montenegro. Why don't the police watch Montenegro's TV, but watch Serbia's Radio Television. Where is the great legalist and Democrats Vojislav Kostunica. It is known which television is Yugoslav - JU INFO. It's funded from the federal budget. New leadership was to be set up there, not in Serbian Radio TV. You would now like to accuse the Government of the Republic of Serbia. She's completely dissipated, no instrument has any. MPs leave the Serbian Parliament, are not waiting for police to keep them away from the crowd and the crowd, and when you head towards the Kosovo towards Serbian Television, police cordons watch TV. From who? For who? That's the point, Mr. Pejcic. We're not interested in your agreements with DOS and SPS. We're not involved in this. We in this congregation today are doing our job. We want to tell the citizens of Serbia, I guess this is the last chance you get us into this government. What happens in five, fifteen, a month and a half? Will we ever have a choice in Serbia on December 23rd? Will he have anyone to go to the elections and how much will Serbia be, how many will the citizens of Serbia vote in? What if the Vojvodina Assembly gives you a resolution that they will not participate in the republican elections? It's where you're mostly DOS. Ah, that's DOS policy. The DOS in Serbia cannot say we are for Vojvodina in Serbia, and DOS in Vojvodina to say, we are for Vojvodina which is not part of Serbia. That's the thing. I understand you from the SPO. Do what you don't need. Instead of folding ranks, going into the campaign, winning votes, you have votes, and being in the parliament of the Serbian Parliament, you are entering a suspicious government. You're entering a government under conditions that don't suit you. Even yesterday I watched on TV that you said you wouldn't come in at all if those faces stayed in power. And today you have an oral promise from the Socialists and DOS that those faces will be gone in seven days. Then you, for God's sake, in seven days you'll be breaking and breaking. Maybe on the General Committee of the SPO. It's the only place you can still make a break after such a move. Where is the fault of the Serbian Radical Party? We're not talking to the SPO at all today, and neither is the SPS, doing what you think is best for you. We are talking to the citizens of Serbia. He couldn't stand it anymore under JUL's torture. He couldn't stand it. There were more and more rich and more poor. JUL acted like he fell from the sky. The Socialists know that. They complained to me, too. They say they bring in a man from JUL to hire him, so he says he has to be well positioned. It's a term that JUL used for his staff. Don't give him bread to survive him and his family, but he says he needs to be well positioned. That people couldn't take it anymore and what happened happened. It's supposed to be a sobering period now. The first one will be sobered by Serbs in Vojvodina. Someone is already separating them from Serbia. They're being separated by someone right now. The ones who separate them are laughing. What happens when they're separated? Will you still be in power? I'm looking at this one that has two numbers bigger teeth (President: Please, Mr. Nikolic... [[He speaks to the messenger from the bench.]] ). You happen to be in that mix-up, in that galamatias. Now you feel like a winner. Look, these are the kind of people you want to win.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2476	He has the word Bogoljub Pejcic - the answer to the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2477	Mr. Nikolic, I hope you answer the line. But what you just said, it's a matter of your culture, of your education, and I can't give you either. You said I was a man of Ozne. Do you know, Mr. Nikolic, that I only have 24 years of work. Do you know, Mr. Nikolic, that from this and that regime, I've been sentenced 42 times to 18 years in prison? Do you know that? If you're not ashamed, step out for this pay phone and repeat that I worked for the UNO. I'm the victim of both this and that regime, Mr. Nikolic. I was beaten by Pendrekast Rade Markovic, president of the Security Committee, as I said here in the Assembly in 1993. You don't remember that. Arrested me, handcuffed me, and then got my ass kicked in Uncle Ljubina's street, as president of the Security Committee of this assembly. Then a cop took off my watch and put it in his pocket. I haven't worn a watch since. There, it's the police of Radet Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2478	There is a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic - a reply to the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2479	I just remember you in the army doing these jobs. That's what I'm talking about. If I'd known you were beaten as a MP, I would never have kept my mouth shut about it. Here, I'm hearing for the first time now that you're being beaten as an MP. I know that Vuk Draskovic was beaten, I know that Danica Draskovic was beaten, and I know that the beaten radicals in the Serbian Parliament and I know that the beaten radicals in Gjilan were arrested and sentenced to prison sentences. That's what I know. If they'd kept you in jail a little longer, we'd have won the election right away. This is how you let us go a little earlier. If I'd known, Mr. Pejcic, I'd have fought for your right much stronger, sharper and more perseverance than you've ever fought for my right. You're a witness that I've been beaten in this assembly. Your writing about that fight in the assembly was a shame. You're a witness that I spent 60 days in a prison in Gjilan. Your writing, and even your MPs' statements about it, were a shame. You spread the story through Serbia that we were not in prison at all. Even in one duel, my countryman Verko Stevanović said funnyly to me: yes, yes, you were in prison, you were in a hotel. I apologize to you if you were beaten by any police officer as a federal envoy. It puts you on my side, because very few MPs were beaten by the police. If you are one of those, then I am very surprised that you accept to be a minister in the government, in which Rade Markovic has not resigned. What if one day he walks into your office and tells you again? If you didn't have protection as an MP, what kind of protection do you think you have as a minister?
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2480	He has the word Dragan Dimic.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2481	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the legal system in the Republic of Serbia has been destroyed, destroyed by those who worked all the time against the state of Serbia and during NATO's aggression against Serbia. It is fully known to Serbian citizens. They did not win these elections with their will and political programmes, but won with a lot of support from the US administration and their delegation, Montgomery, who was also in Zagreb with the task of bringing down HDZ, then transferred to Budapest, opened an office there to help DOS. All the time of the protest, I've watched these citizens walk in the processions. Many young people, honest and honest, were in these columns, moving across Serbia. But it wasn't the only cause of their movement through Serbia that the elections were stolen. The cause was a difficult material situation in Serbia. Generations go out for years, drop out of high schools and colleges, stay out of work and have been left out of cafes and streets. It's especially uplifted by young people. They knew that the Socialists had previously participated in election thefts, and it did not shed a drop in the glass. Therefore, all CIAs and all other intelligence services knew about this dissatisfaction in the Republic of Serbia, strongly supported by the financial resources of certain Serbian leaders. In a certain way, they bribed our youth and won the SRJ presidential election on 24 September and the first Serbian Radical Party recognised the elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2482	Mr. Dimic, the law is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2483	They won many Serbian municipalities in the local elections. That's all true, so the people's will took place. As far as the Law on the Ministry of the Republic of Serbia is concerned, there is something strange going on. Namely, these are the very parties that entered those ministries. So from the SPS, DOS, which are collected from the carriage and rope, and the SPO. Looking at their rule over the past period, it can easily be concluded what binds them together. And their common bond will be fatal by the people of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2484	Mr. Dimic, be kind, speak of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2485	Therefore, I am not sure that this transitional government will do Serbia any good. From day to day, more and more gatherings, workers' salaries remained on the same level, somewhere less. As Serbia survives this winter, it can easily be concluded. There were power outages for four hours at eight o'clock, and now it starts every two hours. Now the citizens are not at all sure of their existence. I don't think this transitional government has a foothold in the people, because the people didn't go to the streets because of it. Many have already explained why the people went out on the street, so this is a classic coup, or robbery, that has been happening across all the institutions of the state system of the SRJ, and they have even entered social enterprises, stock companies and stock companies, where they have replaced people under the rule of law, regulations, and statutes. Let's wonder what this democracy brings to the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2486	Mr. Dimic, I've been warning you for the third time.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2487	We Serbian radicals must certainly show the people that this transitional government does not deserve the attention of a wider layer of people. The SRS will certainly not vote for this government and it has honestly and honestly said it will not participate in this government. Some political leaders, who said Serbian radicals melted like a soap bubble, have the opportunity to go to the 23rd stand alone and measure their strength with Serbian radicals. Then they will see what place they are taking in Serbia, where they belong.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2488	Just to tell Mr. Nikolic, when you had a misunderstanding with the police here (votes: it was not a misunderstanding, but a fight), well, a fight, let Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic testify who passed that cordon where you were surrounded and brought everyone for coffee. Let her say I didn't do it for you. And as for me personally, I never, Mr. Nikolic, wrote what you said. If you find that I wrote it, I will publicly apologize to you through the papers. (Nikolic: your journalists wrote. You let my reporters go, you said I wrote it. And let me answer your third question. I agreed to be one of those commissioners, one-third of the minister for the very reason I said at first, to finally establish legal authority, so that this country could move forward. And secondly, to bring justice to all those guilty, who have sinned against the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2489	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, very brief on the agenda. The SRS proposed that one of the points of the agenda be the Ministry Act at the first session of the regular autumn session. As I recall, we all voted for an emergency procedure. We proposed that the government have, in addition to the president, two vice-presidents and 12 resolution ministers in order to cut costs. We now see that there are no cuts in the ministries, that there are no agenda points, but that we have an increase in ministries and these are ministries that need to provide some money from abroad. The money from abroad, and if it comes, will not be seen either by the SPS and the SPS, will only be seen by the DOS and will serve as their pre-election campaign, and in vain will be won by the Serbian Radical Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2490	Thank you. There is the word of the Messenger of the people, Milun Barac, and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Alexander Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2491	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS has participated honestly in the current government from the heart and entered that government at a time when Serbia was really in a difficult situation, when it was attacked by those enemies from the West, who are now conducting the situation here in Serbia. The SRS was aware of its responsibilities when it entered that government. But today, when we are no longer members of that government and our ministers have resigned, we can say that we have fulfilled this task in the best possible way and that we have nothing to be ashamed of. But as policy-makers, we from the Serbian Radical Party have a duty today to tell our voters and our citizens of the Republic of Serbia what Serbia is in and what our citizens expect with the formation of this government. With the formation of this government, our citizens expect, practically, that everything that has happened so far in the Republic of Serbia, which has led to the violent takeover of power, to be legalised against all legal norms, in violation of the Constitution and the law to the extent that every criterion and face of those who do so has been lost. My predecessors and MPs from my party have repeated everything that has happened, but we see how Serbia and the Serbian people are ashamed these days and in what way, with that so-called. People who are Democrats, who are already traveling around the world, and we see them promising towers and cities, on the one hand to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and how otherwise they treat their employers, whose help they came to power here. In any case, the Serbian people expect nothing good. We can freely argue that this government will be only one Trojan horse for one great evil that is being prepared for Serbia, which is the further dispersion of Serbia to parts of the Western forces. In the end, we will come into a situation where our children, our generation, are prepared in the army, but not to defend Serbia and Serbia's borders, but to go to war for other people's interests, for the interests of Western governments, of the Masonic, who have done so much to the world, to fight our children out there in Asia, Africa, and to realize their interests. Let's not forget that, because Serbia has never been in a difficult situation, but today. Kostunica had to go to Ali Izetbegovic's first gift these days.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2492	Mr. Barach, please, about the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2493	It's a man who proclaimed himself a nationalist, then went to Trebinje to bow down to the musts of Jovan Ducic, a great Serb poet. It's a shame. Practically, he recognises the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in a situation where the poet is buried in that foreign state, where Serbs, practically, have no rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2494	Mr. Barach, I beg you to speak of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2495	You who form this government will also introduce us with such power here in Serbia, where you will determine which party will participate in the elections, which will not, which MPs you will remove from that list and which you will not. What is clear to all of Serbia today, the people of Serbia came to their senses. He knows what this is about. The people are in darkness today and spending more and more time in the dark, but Serbian radicals are the only bright spot, which will bring light to this Serbia, be assured of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2496	There is a word from MP Aleksandar Djordjevic, and let MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2497	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, today, the first item of the agenda, which we are still discussing - the draft law on the additions of the Ministry Act, which was found on the agenda, above all for this item of the agenda, as suggested in the proposal's explanation, that there is a constitutional basis for the adoption of this law, to form a ministry of economic ties with abroad. It is clear that there is no constitutional basis in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia for the adoption of such a law, for forming a ministry in the government of the Republic of Serbia. Given that the SRS, or the SRS parliamentary group, has proposed to the Assembly on an urgent procedure to pass a package of laws at the first regular session, which has not been completed since a few days ago, we now have a agenda where we need to reach a conclusion, we need to adopt a bill to form a ministry of economic ties with abroad. The reason for this law, as explained here, is the Annex to the agreement to call an extraordinary parliamentary election in Serbia, which has deployed ministry resolutions in the Republic of Serbia, among other things, that the Democratic opposition to Serbia belongs to the Ministry of Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs. Given that the current Ministry Act does not provide for this ministry, it is proposed to supplement this law, which will be educated by the ministry. So, the DOS, which has no MPs in this House, conditioned, practically, that one such law be passed, and that two parliamentary groups now here have a majority, which have adopted negotiations with the DOS, agree to pass one such law. What does that mean, actually? This means that the SPS and SPS parliamentary group here will legitimise this coup of revolutionaries that took place in Belgrade on 5 October, when they took over, practically, all of this responsibility for what is happening in the SRJ. First of all, I can say from this speaker that I expected the newly elected SRJ President Vojislav Kostunica to be called to the federal parliament, to propose a mandate for the federal government and that the federal government would form in such a way that these problems that are now happening will be solved. Everything that's been going on until October 5th can be considered a legitimate revolt of the people, which the people have gone to the streets. Of course, it's so-called. The DOS took advantage of it by implementing it, which carried out a revolution and took illegal Radio - Television of Serbia, took on all responsibility for what is now happening in Serbia. No one here can blame the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Government of National Unity, who has acted and worked in the past, for what's been going on since October 5th, so to speak. All ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia from the SRS resigned.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2498	Mr. Djordjevic, please speak of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2499	Since 5 October in Serbia, a coup has been carried out in an explanation. The government of the Republic of Serbia has been illegally kidnapped and managed by the institutions of the system, especially the police and public enterprises. Financial and social policy, price policy, are in the hands of revolutionary committees that have taken over police, economics, stock reserves, trade, media, NBJ and funds. So, revolutionaries, DOS, practically forced two parliamentary groups, SPS and SPS, by means of blackmail methods to accept everything they're looking for. It can practically be said that the SPS has capitulated under DOS pressure. As far as the SPO is concerned...
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2500	Mr. Djordjevic, be nice, talk about the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2501	... In this situation their party no longer enjoys...
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2502	Mr. Djordjevic, since you're not answering my questions, I've turned off your microphone and taken your word. I warned you. You won't even turn around. You won't say you'll continue, which means there's no communication between us. Thank you. Be nice. There's a word from MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2503	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, although we are Serbian radicals counter-revolutionaries, if the president continues to take away our word, we will form some crisis headquarters with two vice presidents, and we too will control the president as DOS's are controlled by the Socialists in the government. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs of the SRS are doing everything they can to prevent the adoption of a law supplementing the Ministry Act. We are trying and citing two parliamentary groups, the SPS and the SPS, not to vote for this law. We believe that following this law, further decommissioning of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia will continue. Part of the work that is in the jurisdiction of the federal government will belong to the Republic government of Serbia, and so each village of Serbia, Montenegrins on the one hand, Serbs on the other hand, is going to form a special government in Vojvodina that is likely to work its foreign policy and its foreign trade, or perhaps this law will just be applied in relations between Montenegro, Vojvodina, Kosovo and Metohija, and later, by further decommissioning or as said by the president of the Democratic Party of Serbia, Kostunica by regionalising Serbia, to many small states, feuds, possessions, etc. I'm really trying to convince the SPS MPs, who are obviously kind of intimidated, someone is threatening them with that Big Banger from Cuck. They used to call him Lampek, so he grew up in a backhoe, that Velja-bager would come in with a bagger, bring in a crowd and execute a link between the SPS MPs. And the people will really go out on the streets if we keep this up. You know, there's no power, there's all this stuff, there's a crisis going on, there's violence going on. And today, while we're having a debate here, they're probably replacing some social company director, a stock company or some public enterprise. Although they did change most of them. Where is your MP, Novakovic, director of the Nitex, he's gone. They got into baseball bats, too, and that gang replaced him, forced him to get out of work. He did so, and it was seen by friends from DOS, the chairman of the SPO District Committee from Nis, Mr Branislav Jovanovic. They also began to take power from the SPO. Gentlemen, from where you are assured that any law that is passed today, or by another people's congregation, will be respected when these revolutionaries behave like this today. And today we were supposed to discuss the RTS Act. That was the second point on the agenda. Then, lifting a 3% tax on the city of Belgrade. Well, abolishing the solidarity log. No, let's make some new ministry, the ministry of economic ties with abroad, instead of liberating the citizens of Serbia on their legitimate request to abolish the fees we are today discussing how to drown someone else. I understand future ministers who are impatient. They've been practicing the text of the oath all day and their ladies in the house are already honoring themselves, putting on a coffee shop, if they have electricity, of course, and trying to sit down as soon as possible and take up their restours. I'm not afraid of these DOS guys. I'm not afraid. Let them come, let them take by force, why give them legitimacy here. Did they burn down the Federal Assembly, whether they usurped all the institutions and authorities of the state administration and authorities. Why don't we take this assembly by force, too, why don't we force the government. They can do it. Do you think the new ministers will be able to control their work under the law, as they plan the work of the ministries. No, gentlemen. There's gonna be some DOS controllers coming in and they're gonna say, this is how you have to work. Just like we're planning on setting up the co-chairs for our president, and now he's gone, so I might as well take that place. You see, right after this coup, a police officer tells me here in the Assembly, from security, that they've been ordered that no M.O.P. action can be carried out unless there's a civilian representative of the DOS, and under such conditions, I'm not going to work with the police. They've taken over everything. And what are you afraid of? Who are you protecting? Tell me, gentlemen. You weren't protecting any of the directors of the public company, you weren't protecting Novakovic, and he's your member. They were all directors. Well, I guess not all those executives are bad businessmen. Not everyone had butter on their heads. Well, if you weren't protecting them, how will you protect the ordinary members of the party? This gives you the impression that you're a good protecter of your skin, and that people chose you. Those members of yours have chosen you. You're saying that if we're cooperative, maybe they won't touch us. It is not your duty to protect you, but to protect the citizens, and those who voted and those who did not vote for you. This is where the SRS parliamentary group sits, and we're really all ready to defend each member of the party at the cost of our lives. No member of our party should lack hair from their heads. Let someone try to deal with them, run them out of work, or do some self-will. Gentlemen, a dozen SPS deputies have spoken to me. I've never had a fight with anyone, nor have I had a bad relationship with any MP. Everyone assured me that there was no party discipline that would force them to vote for both this law and the other laws, or for the creation of a coalition government, and I would say that it was the government of Pete, as you do, they were the occupiers, and you volunteered to enter the occupation government. This is for both DOS and for you, a test on how this government is going to function. If you adopt this law today, you are good associates, then it will receive you, use you, and reject you as needed. Do you think Srdjan Nikolic will do better? Or Justice Minister Jankovic, who says - I don't know, they didn't interfere with my work, I don't understand anything. He's cooperative, but it's too late. It's late. You're not going to save someone's skin and I know most of you don't have butter on your head, save those who have butter on your head just by getting into the government and saving people like that. You can't talk by force. Here are the Members of the SPO, from Nis. You think they agree with the violent takeover of companies and institutions? Do you think it's normal for someone who proposes such a law to play the Democrats, that it's normal for someone to put a gun in someone's mouth, threaten children, threaten to take their faces, come with baseball bats? No, I don't. I believe most MPs from the SPS and the SRS think the same way. You believed me, we talked on boards, and when we were drinking coffee together, so on. Now show us the guts, they've barely gathered you to make a quorum. Will the Messengers of Kosovo and Metohija also vote for this law and other laws? Gentlemen, do you know who contributed most to the foreign occupation force coming to the territory of Kosovo and Metohija? No matter what nationality or religion you are, or any difference you exist, you are citizens of Serbia, you are MPs, the people chose you to defend your honor, your cheek, and the face of those people who chose you. We have clearly defined ourselves, the MPs of the SRS will not vote for this law, which represents a further decommissioning of the SRJ. Imagine, that's all we have left, the only country we have left, and it's going to be smaller and smaller. This way, if we allow it, especially Montenegro goes, especially Serbia, and here, they look forward to it, they say -- and Vojvodina. What will become of Serbia? Nothing. It's your decision, your conscience, I'm sure you have the honor. Vote your conscience and take care of your cheeks. Your children are watching this transmission if they have electricity. Don't let your children be ashamed of you, don't let what you spat on yesterday, I don't know what kind of party obedience you've done. It's not about party interest anymore. It's about Serbia, the thing is that we all have to keep this little country together that we have left. Here, after this debate, we will have the opportunity to see how much courage you still have to decide by your conscience, by your honor.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2504	There's a word from MP Alexander Milutinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2505	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have a deep impression that some fellow MPs are trying to cloud the essence of the agreements signed by the SPS, SPS and DOS parties. I, of course, have no intention of trying to clear up the situation and consciousness now and to understand what the agreement wants, but I care very much about the Serb people and all those who are watching us right now. Representatives of the three political groups signed an agreement last Monday, 16 October, which should not be called either a coalition or a political agreement, which aims to regulate the country's four basic issues -- firstly, to stop the wave of powerlessness, one liquid state, which occurred in Serbia after October 5th, further, to ensure normal functioning of the system institutions, primarily the state and state apparatus, in particular to create conditions for finally, thank God, after more than half a century in Serbia to be held the first fair and fair multi-party elections. But above all, to ensure in Serbia order and peace and property and personal security and security of every citizen. I quote point 1, the first paragraph of the said agreement: "The signatories of the agreement have agreed that the most obstacles of all to ensure public order and peace in the Republic of Serbia, create all necessary conditions for normal life and work, all problems are solved under the Constitution and law, political means and civilised means, full protection of the institutions of the system and ensure their normal functioning at all levels, unlimited and free work by all political parties, as well as full protection of citizens, state, private and personal property. "In order for this to happen, it is necessary to shed light on and explain first of all the issues about certain events that have in recent years excited and excited all of Serbia today. First of all, to clarify and shed light on the circumstances surrounding the massacre that took place at Ibarska Masteral on 3 October 1999, to clarify why three days before the assassination attempt and the massacre disappeared, or kidnapped Mr. Vladimir Nikolic, who is still in prison today. Who killed Slavko Curuvija, where is Mr. Ivan Stambolic? Who is to blame and who has re-organised the assassination of Mr Draskovic in Budva, June 15th of this year?
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2506	Mr. Milutinović, I'm asking you to talk about the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2507	The law stems from this agreement. Just a few more sentences. In order for these circumstances to be enlightened, it was necessary to bring about an emergency procedure, and that is, in this agreement, immediately arrest and bring to justice, i.e. the High Court in Podgorica, perpetrators, or suspected of involvement in the assassination of Vuk Draskovic. It is incorrect, according to some newspapers today, that the SPO is seeking to disband the National Security Service. Normally, we wouldn't have thought of that. Homeland security is supposed to exist, but he needs to do his job professionally. We are asking for Mr Radet Markovic's resignation, and we have today asked representatives of other members of the agreement, the SPS and the Democratic opposition to give us written confirmation. To our great surprise, they didn't want it, but they made a firm promise and gave us oral guarantees that it would be done within a week. I would probably personally believe that I do not know that Mr. Rade Markovic is on the first program at this point on RTS, new or old. I note that Mr. Vuk Draskovic, since he returned to the country, has not yet been invited to visit on one, one or the other media, and I do not know when or whether he will be invited. Thank you. [[Employer Stevo Dragisic is looking for a replica.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2508	Here, you have the right to a replica, but please don't leave the scene until I give you my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2509	I thought you noticed me and you already gave me your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2510	I didn't.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2511	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Milutinovic cited four basic points of the agreement, which were signed by SPS, SPS and DOS, and said to stop the wave of powerlessness, to ensure normal functioning of the system, to ensure order and peace and personal and property security of citizens and to organise and conduct fair elections. The Serbian Radical Party agrees that there is powerlessness in Serbia, that the system does not work, that there is no order and peace and that there is no personal and property security of citizens, as we agree that almost all the elections held so far have not been fair and fair. And in those elections, the SRS was one of the parties most discriminated against. Since an agreement has been signed on these four points, it means that the SPS, SPS and DOS agree with the SRS' finding that the wave of powerlessness has affected Serbia, that the normal system does not work, that there is no order and peace, that there is no personal and property security of citizens. Now the question arises -- how did we get into this situation, who caused powerlessness, who destroyed the system, who destroyed order and peace in Serbia and who brought uncertainty into the normal lives of citizens -- DOS, the coup organised by DOS, which was organised by Montgomery, the American responsible for the Balkans, and the contractor was DOS, Zoran Djindjic, and not to list everyone else, are the culprits for this powerlessness, the failure of the system and the chaos that was created. They managed to implement it because the M.O.P. put under their control. One who controls police, who is able to take over with automatics, baseball bats into the company, forces the director to resign, form a crisis headquarters, take over all media in Serbia, controls the situation, that is, deliberately producing chaos and powerlessness, in order to force terrified directors and officials to flee and take control of these public enterprises and state institutions. DOS controls chaos and DOS produces chaos, as only in chaos could grab what did not belong to it in the elections for the Federal Assembly and for the president of Serbia. What's going on now, DOS grabbed what he wanted, DOS took it, grabbed what he wanted. He now needs someone who will provide him with the legality, and only the Serbian Parliament can do that. The Republika Srpska Assembly decides most of the votes. The SPS and SPS can provide the majority with their mandates. Then DOS realized to force the SPS and the SPO to form a new government. If this government is only up to the election, which is the purpose of forming that government. They'd wait for those two months to pass, the elections would take place, they'd see who had the majority, they'd form a normal government. All that would happen until these elections would be burdened by an existing government, a government that has been deposed, governments whose SRS ministers have resigned. They needed cover for the chaos they produced. You SPO and SPS gentlemen can't stop this mess by your participation. The DOS decides which dose of chaos will be in Serbia and they time the chaos as it suits them. They're just dosing him, now we're gonna take this, now we're gonna take that. As Americans tell them, that's what DOS does. Those who enter the government will continue to manage everything that happens in Serbia. You don't think you're going to be able to, that even most of the government you'd have with the SPS, you can force DOS to do something they don't think is their interest. Don't kid yourself. Don't kid yourself. How they could have kidnapped until they had no ministerial post, so they'll take away what they get into the government. They control the media, they control the police. On Saturday, when they established new demands, they accused you of obstructing. You agree one thing, they give you the new terms after that agreement and the signed agreement, and you, of course, can't accept it as people, and then on all the media releases -- you're obstructing cannot form a government. Who are you kidding that you will be able to prevent chaos and powerlessness because you form that government. You won't be able to. You're just legalizing a revolutionary committee. You've been admitted to an extended composition of the crisis headquarters, so they can do whatever they want, but this time they're covered. The assembly majority is handing over power to the exact revolutionary committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2512	There is a word from MP Vitomir Plužarevic, and let the MP Ljubomir Kragovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2513	Ladies and gentlemen, here's the third day we've been making arrangements and getting ready for this assembly tonight. Why so long? Why? Did it take people so long to organize this congregation? I don't think you should have. The democratic processes in Serbia are in effect today. Is that what democracy does? Long pipe night. Is that the future of democratic ideas? We're fighting for the right values. People who boycotted parliamentary elections today line up certain SPS leaders ahead of them, are a future new political system. That's what we Serbian radicals won't accept. Looking at all the images of the new democracy, it seems terrible and promising new sufferings of my people. Do we experience various humiliations in a new world democratic way? I'm from Vojvodina. The people will only now see where this new democracy leads. Can't those who can't put together a single common idea except that it's their fault, it's their fault, they're the radicals. We radicals fight for real patriotic ideas. Am I as a Serb to be mobilized tomorrow by some NATO or some Austrian corporals and directed against my brothers through Sava, or on some other side. It's an idea and it's the wish of all those who are today trying to bring about some new world trend, or some new world idea. We will not allow, Serbian radicals, as long as we are in these places, to have such a thing happen. As far as the law is concerned, we will not vote in favour of this legislation which has been extorted by DOS, or by people who have not even participated in parliamentary previous elections and who have received legality, and we know from whom. They got from those gentlemen who lost and identity, which means the SPS lost his courage, lost his desire to fight, lost everything that was inside of them some minimal patriotic pride and some patriotic attitude. They lined them up, put them next to a political wall, and now they can't even move out of place and do anything positive about this people.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2514	Please talk about the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2515	As far as the law goes, we Serbian radicals will not vote for this law. Can't you see that self-government is coming back again? So, they want one of the new self-rule routes, or new self-government routes, to be some self-rule directions, sometimes they're the self-government directions of Edward Cardell, and today they're the self-government directions that come... (President: Please talk about the agenda point. We will not accept the law because the law is extorted. So the law is not in a democratic mile nor presented. So he's a force, and the people can't even think about it, and we as MPs are not going to vote tonight. Our vote will be against this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2516	There is a word from MP Ljubomir Kragovic, and let the MP Milovan Blazic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2517	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, after a series of shameful and dishonest agreements, here is another agreement in front of the Serbian Parliament. Just over a year ago, after the heroic struggle of the Serbian people against any justified aggression against the SRJ, there was a shameful signing of the Chernomidin agreement -- Ahtisaari directed by the SPS and the SPO. The consequences of the agreement are disastrous for Kosovo and Metohija. It is a territory with a "peace mission", which many have looked forward to, which today created one territory, which is Europe's most insecure space, ruled by chaos, misery, drug trafficking, weapons, white slavery. More than 300,000 Serbs were expelled, more than 1,000 Serbs were killed, about 1,000 Serbs kidnapped. These are the consequences of these SAAs and SPOs. Today we have one new agreement between these two parliamentary groups, which can provide the majority in this House. It is proposed that the law supplement the Ministry Act, and a few days ago we adopted the draft law on ministries in this assembly, which was adopted by the SRS. Against all rules, we cast this law, remove, and submit to the MPs to vote on the law supplementing the Ministry Act. The ministry of economic relations with abroad performs the tasks of the state administration, which relate to improving economic relations with abroad. What does that mean? Is that the law that's breaking the SRJ, does that mean there won't be any SRJs anymore, if we all know that this ministry is being established at the level of the federal state. Or, if the ministry remains to be formed and at the level of the federal state, does this mean that this will be done by the Ministry of Economic Relations with abroad at the level of the current Serbia, will this minister negotiate with autonomouss in Vojvodina, with Bosniaks in the Rasko area, with the Shiptars in Cosmet, separatists in Montenegro? I'm afraid of all these secret SPS and SPO agreements. That's why I suggest that all MPs vote against this law. If they only take into account the consequences of their previous agreement, Chernomidin - Ahtisaari, and what fate the Serb people had then achieved. I'm afraid that no more difficult fate will come to the Serbian people after the vote of this law and their secret agreement. The Members of the SPO are constantly seeking to shed light on some murders, kidnappings, terrorisms. And I am in favour of clarifying who killed those four SPO activists, as well as all the terrorism in Serbia, but I am very ashamed of why they never ask to discover who killed thousands of innocent and innocent Serbs in Cosmet. Why never ask and ask where are those thousands of kidnapped Serbs from Cosmeta? It is not that Dragan Nikolic and Ivan Stambolic are so valuable that you keep looking for it, and forget that you are not looking for it for my brothers in Cosmet, because they probably are not. Just remember how much you enjoyed that mission, how much your leader loved that order, peace, prosperity would prevail in Kosovo. Why now this same leader of yours isn't asking, not just for your members, but I guess out of those thousands of Serbs one was at least a member of the SPO, and maybe not one. Either of those thousands killed or of those 300,000 exiled. Your MP has been expelled from Peći, which you do not imagine at least above him, as many of our colleagues have been expelled from Kosovo, and you only potential the same. And the fate of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija as if it did not exist. That's what you're looking forward to, and now you're looking forward to, and you're looking forward to entering some transitional government, an expert government, to prevent powerlessness, to establish a legal order, to provide property security. And I have a feeling that everything will be in greater chaos, that there will be even more powerlessness and that there will be even more violations of the legal order and that it will be even more difficult for the Serbian people after the vote of such laws and such agreements and agreements. We Serbian radicals will vote against this law and please especially my colleagues from Kosovo and Metohija and you vote against this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2518	There is a word from Messenger Milovan Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2519	Ladies and gentlemen, why won't the SRS vote for this bill? They won't, for reasons contained in several messages. It's basic: Be whatever you want, but be it to the end. So if you're against treason, be it for the rest of your life. If you are against injustice and injustice, be it to the end. If you're for Yugoslavia, the common state, then be it until the end. If you're against violence and robbery, then be it for the rest of it. If you're into freedom of the press and speech, then be it for the rest of it. If you're for the rule of law and the rule of law, then be it for the rest of your life. If you are in favour of social justice and care for the socio-economic position of citizens - then be it until the end. It is honorable to remain principled, consistent, and to fight for something great, even if at some point not to fight for it, but to fight for something small and personal that can humiliate you as a man. Every man is born to live for ever and ever. Fear often makes a man's face moan, for these reasons the SRS won't vote for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2520	He has the word Miroljub Veljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2521	I have just received reliable information that the ideological committee is DOS, meaning these new revolutionary organisations, that it is keeping an eye on the behaviour of SPS MPs in this assembly. According to these reliable ifnormations so far, excellent grades have been given by Zoran Angelkovic and Mr Tomic, president of the Assembly. They were particularly prominent in work and pawning. Minister Tomovic's ex hasn't passed yet, so he needs to work a little more, otherwise he's somewhere on the edge.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2522	Be nice, you're talking about the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2523	I need to inform you. While Bija stands disastrously. Mr. Tomic, you did not answer that closed part of the Assembly until television on the issue of Steve Dragisic, why did you not put on the agenda for this meeting of the National Assembly what we adopted at the previous session. Why do SPS MPs and SPS fight not to abolish the solidarity agenda? We're done with the renovation, so we're gonna have to cancel the diary.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2524	Be nice, you're talking about the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2525	It's about the law. Or why you're fighting to keep the day's taxes off. As far as this law is concerned, it should prepare a brutal and rapid privatisation by the model it has made with small variations in all Eastern European countries. A new privatisation law was proposed by the SRS parliamentary group at the previous session as one of the agenda points. It is an extraordinary law, under which 10% of the shares would be given to all employees in the company, 10% would be distributed to the vouchers of all of the country's full-time citizens, and the rest would sell those funds, collected in this way, would go directly to social fund support funds, to the Health Fund, etc. But it won't work that way. It couldn't have been done like that in other Eastern European countries, so it won't be possible here either. The DOS task is precisely to prepare, in a national-state sense, further dismembering of Serbian-ethnic tissue, and in a socio-economic sense to prepare rapid and brutal privatisation, kidnapping of people's property and selling Budas for both these new rich people and the West. That my claims were correct, and a few nights ago, Sulja Ugljanin came forward. Since I come from the region of Raska, I am responsible for saying that all the citizens of this country, the Muslim religions, voted for Mr Kostunica. It is not disputed, however, we are now coming at a price. Sulja Ugljanin came by two nights ago and she says, "Please, gentlemen, in 1991, we voted for Sandzak's autonomy and we voted we could make an agreement with any neighbouring country." It is known which one is referring to, Bosnia and Herzegovina, or rather, to the Muslim-Croatian Federation. It came out the other night and that miracle of man, half a man half a fish, Canak, and literally a man on the first RTS programme says -- we won't run anything until December elections as far as autonomy and separation of Kosovo, even some natural border lines around Zemun, behind Zemun, etc., but as soon as it passes, we don't give up on our programs. So, if we lay low for a while, to double-cross the Serbian animal, especially in Vojvodina, to give us confidence, then we'll finish this job that the Americans gave us. Now I'm going back to this law. In a socio-economic sense, this law requires this ministry to prepare, through the so-called A new model of privatisation should be prepared abroad, so-called 100% voucher privatisation. I live in Bulgaria at the time of the so-called execution. The transition of state property to private property. Very briefly, first of all because of our viewers, I'll explain what it looks like. In the case of Serbia, if the estimated state and social property in this country is about 70 billion marks, then at 7-8 thousand marks, each citizen will receive a piece of paper or as a voucher. Privatization funds will be formed and this fund will be able to open someone, for example, who can deposit $10-20-30 million. Citizens will need these coupons, talents or vouchers to manage the privatisation funds. They will literally, without money, mean, brutally and quickly privatise the Serbian economy and then, this new political-economic oligarchy, those who have now received, conditionally speaking, the trust of the people, they do not have those means, but, indeed, this on the left.... That's it. That's the date, and don't be surprised the citizens of Serbia why Lefty agrees. Of course it does. It should be preserved while this storm lasts, the acquired capital should be preserved. In what way, it is likely that the judicial authorities will establish and then, normally, establish themselves in another form and make rapid privatisation. Word is, we're gonna get into a big investment cycle. From the example of the same Bulgaria, Romania, Hungary and not to mention, what did the foreigners buy, where did the foreigners invest? They bought cements, because by 2006, there would be no more cements on the TEU-Economic Union. Cement will be produced in Eastern Europe. They bought a piece of the chemical industry, not all of it. They'll probably buy this chemical industry called Zupa in Krusevec, because it produces pesticides and stuff. They bought brewers, because it's a fast-windling capital, etc., and nothing more. This rest of what remains will reward this new financial-political oligarchy. That is why, in this sense, I call on Serbian citizens to think very carefully about whom they will give confidence in the December elections. I warn you, especially the SPS MPs, there is now one hope that has awakened among the citizens. They lie, every night they come out hundreds of billions of dollars, this, that, help, left, right. No one's saying that you need to start working in this country, that you seriously need to roll up your sleeves and start working, but, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you're like, we're like, we're like, we're like, we're like, we're like, we're like, we're gonna live for the next 20 years from the West. We all know here, you're all serious people, this 200 million euros will come and we all know it. That's it to win the election. As soon as it passes, the conditions will begin. What an investment. You don't think Ferrero from Italy is going to invest in "Tavo" - Gornji Milanovac or "Bambi" to bring them new technologies, etc., so they can start and employ their capacities. God forbid. They'll shut down those facilities. They have hyperproduction, they have recession in their countries. They're looking for new markets. In that sense, I refer first of all to the citizens of our country, think carefully in the December elections you will give confidence to. I've been watching Veselinov. I've seen him before, and he's been smoking "The Partner." Now in the lobby, I'm looking at him, I'm burning up Havana. Fidel Castro, my God. He's probably a role model from young days. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2526	Thank you. To make a deal, half of you are from the quorum in the O.R. I'm taking a half-hour break, to collect the quorum, to blow yourself up a little bit, just like me. [[After break - 23:30]] I ask the MPs to take their seats, to continue our work. He has the word National MP Bozidar Vucurovic. (Glasses - no quorum. ) Please, we're old Parliamentarians, we're used to working. We have four reported, and the quorum is just necessary for a vote, and it's not for listening. You know how, in the British Parliament, you're just obliged to vote, and you're not to listen. There is the word of the People's Messenger Bozidar Vučurević, and let the Messenger be prepared... (votes - we have no quorum). Wait, we've got four more reported, it doesn't make sense. Please, we have four reports, and you can sign in tomorrow. We'll have a debate and in particular, we have another law, so government, let's finish these four tonight. Do you agree? There is a word from the People's MP Bozidar Vucurovic, and let Milorad Mircic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2528	There is a reasonable doubt that there is no quorum in this room. I don't want to deny the absence of MPs of my beautiful discussion. Please determine the quorum. (Glasses - no quorum. ) According to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2529	Does Mr. Milorad Mircic want to speak? (Mircic, from the place: I will if the quorum is established. )
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2530	And I will if the quorum is determined.
ParlaMint-RS_2000-10-23-0.u2531	Please, I don't think it makes any sense to determine the quorum when it appears we don't have a quorum. Please, we'll continue tomorrow at 10.00. Dear People's MPs, please take your seats, let's get started. Before we go to work, I'll read you a letter, which I received from RTS's chief coordinator: "We inform you that we no longer have technical opportunities to transfer the Assembly, news cars and links have to do other programming tasks, and we apologize for that." (Glasses of Radical Orders: Who signed it? We didn't start working, I said - before we went to work. Please continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2000. (Stevo Dragisic): I'm not looking for a word, I'm just asking who signed the letter. Nenad Ristic, authorized face from television.
