ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u2	We shall resume the discussion of the Government's statement. We resume the discussion of the government's statement. Mr Dewael has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u3	Prime Minister, you made an optimistic statement yesterday in the Chamber. She was optimistic, because our country and our citizens are better off than they were three years ago. You were passionate, because with the whole series of reforms of the Summer Agreement you can reinforce that trend again. I could quote from reports from the OECD, from the IMF, from the National Bank. I could quote from the comments we received from the European Union. I could end all the economic indicators. They're all green. But I will limit myself today to three figures in the debate on the policy statement. These three figures tell us what you have done, Minister, but they also illustrate the work that remains to be done. It would be inappropriate, as the economy re-appears, to sit back and think that the work is done. No, there's still a way to go. The challenges for the future remain great. Reforms are therefore still necessary. The first figure I would like to put forward here in the hemisphere is the figure EUR 1 752. We can all discuss figures, but that figure is the amount that a worker with a minimum wage I am underlining: with a minimum wage per year will earn net extra. Prime Minister, that is more than a thirteenth month. I would like to make it clear once again that this amount is the result of a tax shift, which some people have wronged. The maled tax shift wouldn't have been entirely funded. However, the result of this tax intervention is that taxes on labour are, at last, going down. Moreover, that reduction will be reinforced on 1 January 2018 and on 1 January 2019, when the 30% share in our taxation will definitely be a thing of the past. This means that in this legislative period we are pumping EUR 5.4 billion into the purchasing power of citizens, EUR 5.4 billion in purchasing power! This morning we discussed the purchasing power of the people; in any case, it is an operation which has not been equal in the past legislatures. Why is that so important? I would like to dwell on that, because I think that a debate on the State of the Union should be a debate in which political choices are made in society. Our choice of society is indeed that people who work can and even must be rewarded for this, because they must be able to move forward effectively. Then I refer again to the weakest shoulders. They must be able to make the most progress, and that is why we focus mainly on low wages. It is an additional incentive to work for people without work. How many times have we said that there is an unemployment trap, that the difference between work and non-work is far too small? We must ensure that work becomes attractive again. Some complained this morning that the tax shift is a drop on a hot plate. I have also been told that purchasing power is actually falling. Now I want to debate everything, but I think we can and must believe a number of references, otherwise any serious debate in the hemisphere will become impossible. When I hear them, they say they're lying to the National Bank and the Planning Bureau. They clearly see an increase in purchasing power of 2.9 % as a net result and that since 2014. I take into account inflation, energy bills and increased excise duties. Prime Minister, your government rewards people who work in different ways, not just through the tax shift and the reduction of the burden on labour. This morning there was some animosity when I was talking about the flexi jobs. To the regret of those who envy it, that is a huge success. In this way, 28 000 people who have a job can do so because that is the condition for extra jobs in the hospitality sector. Undeclared work, which we all condemn, becomes white. The employer pays social security contributions and the employee pays extra net. Action has been taken to this end, up to the Constitutional Court, which has finally decided that there is nothing wrong with that system. Tomorrow the system will be extended, to the regret of whom it may envy, and that is a huge boost for our group. I'll give you that. The system will be extended to trade and it will also be accessible to pensioners. Once again, I would almost say that work must be paid. That is the choice of society we make. In addition to the tax shift and the flexi-jobs, I refer to a third measure, namely the profit premium. Thanks to the profit premium, companies that perform well today will be able to share their profits more easily with their employees. That measure once again allows people to be rewarded. A further measure means that working people or pensioners who do a job for their neighbor, who work in the care sector or in association, may also benefit from it. They will soon be able to earn up to EUR 500 per month, free of charge and with guarantees against distortions of competition. I always wonder who could object to that. We have debated these measures. Opponents call these measures systems which would distort competition. It wouldn't be full-time jobs or full-time jobs. It simply means that our government opts for a philosophy and a particular model of society that simply says that working pays off. There is another measure which I would like to hold still for a moment. I do not mean the impact tax, Mr Verherstraeten. Today there are 260 billion euros in savings books. The money on those savings books is not all owned by capitalists, but the zero interest rate actually means that money doesn't pay today. Through a law-Cooreman-De Clercq bis the saver can invest in shares. As with the savings book, according to a well-known technique, some of those dividends are exempt from withholding tax. That's the first number I wanted to stop. It is the figure that people can earn more net thanks to the tax shift. Mr Prime Minister, the second figure I would like to give is 37 000. With so many, they are the new independent entrepreneurs. By the end of this legislature, there will be 50 000 new independent entrepreneurs. For the past ten years, and I read this in all these reports, there have never been so many new companies as they are today. The number of bankruptcies is falling. Entrepreneurship confidence is increasing. Of course, that also makes itself felt in the labour market. According to the National Bank I therefore clearly choose my By 2019, the end of the legislature, we would be clocking at 242 000. Colleagues, these jobs have been added to the debate on this issue too, mainly in the private sector, and it is mainly about full-time contracts. I think that the government can put that on its hat, but that is, of course, the merit of the people who are doing business, people who are sticking their necks out. Politics must make that possible. Politics must create an environment in which people have the courage, the courage and the desire to undertake. Of course, I also have to refer to the decline in patronial contributions. No one has spoken today about labour costs disability, but the lack of competitiveness of the Belgian economy was an issue here every year in the debate on the State of the Union. This labour cost handicap towards our neighbouring countries, our main trading partners, has finally been eliminated. If no one tells you, I'll tell you. The companies are again competitive. The companies are again profitable. The companies can reinvest in growth and in tomorrow's jobs. Mr Minister of Finance, the Summer Agreement will further encourage this fact. I would like to make it clear once again that the rate of 33% for all enterprises is falling to 25%. Moreover, SMEs will have to pay only 20% of their profits at their first 100 000 euros. Mr Verherstraeten rightly pointed out this morning that this action is mainly directed at our SMEs. After all, they are the backbone of our economy. The reform of company taxation once again strengthens our international competitiveness. At the same time, however, I come now to the concept of justice, which we are calling a halt to the race to the bottom through the introduction of the minimum tax. That is only fair, that is only fair. It concerns the introduction of a minimum tax of 7.5% for larger companies and multinationals. I repeat that I give the figure of growth in the number of independent entrepreneurs because your policy makes it clear that entrepreneurs are getting oxygen again. Everyone, however, has to do their part. So may I just use the concept of fiscal justice. Mr Prime Minister, the third point I would like to make shows that there is still work to be done. The third digit I would like to quote is that I used it this morning during my brief argumentation of just over two minutes; I have only interrupted it once, the figure is 67.6 %. Barely 67,6% of the population, I would like to stress the word "a little bit" at work is also really at work. In Flanders, that figure is 72 percent, in Wallonia, and I say that without any gloating, that is only 62%. Despite all the jobs that come in, despite falling unemployment, this simply remains far too little. In fact, there has been little talk of the budget here. I wonder why our budget is so hard to balance. Why do we, as a country, have these huge ageing costs? Well, the answer is very simple: there are simply too few shoulders that can carry the burden. As I said this morning, in the Netherlands and Germany, about 80% are at work. In the Scandinavian countries, they go smoothly above 80 percent. I have already said this during Question Time, but I would like to emphasise it again, Prime Minister. Should Belgium reach the same level of employment as our northern neighbours today, we would not have a budget deficit of 6 billion but a surplus of 7 billion, Mr Finance Minister, Madam Budget Minister. Then the question arises as to why in this country, with so many possibilities, the activity rate is only 67%. Some may not like to hear it, but the answer is simple: that is because of our labour market. Our labour market still tends to protect people who have a job. The people who are in the system, the insiders, who need to be protected. However, this labour market makes it very difficult for outsiders, weaker groups, such as low-skilled people, people of ethnic origin, young people and the elderly. I'd like to quote Professor Marx. He may not have his last name all the way with him. He cannot be accused of liberal sympathies. Marx writes in a noted gallery: "Are we finally gonna see that we're not gonna get there without structural reforms in the labour market?'
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u4	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u5	I said his name could trigger some reactions. In any case, it is not on the liberal side. Listen carefully to what he's writing. I repeat: are we finally going to see that we are not going to get there without structural reforms in the labour market? People with lower education are colliding with a huge wall around the labour market today. We just don't create enough jobs for them. Who am I to contradict him? You are doing something about that, Prime Minister. I am thinking of night work in e-commerce. I am thinking of the short debate this morning on temporary work in the federal government. I am thinking of the measures on re-importing the trial period. I am thinking of the targeted reduction in the burden for young people and for older workers. These are all measures designed to facilitate entry into the labour market. It is also all measures that have been denounced by the opposition in recent months and years. Then I wonder whether the people who condemn such measures do not stand up for more jobs, for more work? Trade unions stand up for people who have jobs today, but are they concerned about people who don't have jobs? I ask the question very boldly, but that is the reality. People always ignore that. It protects those who are in a system, but ignores the rigidity of the labour market, which does not actually allow those people to flow through. Let me give you another example of e-commerce. It is often also about night work. That is a difficult discussion, I know, but 20 000 jobs have been lost in this way on the Belgian labour market and can now be found just across the border. I think that's a missed opportunity. Then we can talk about the quality of the jobs, about what kind of work needs to be done, but I think it is criminal that people have long closed their eyes to this. Your government is doing something about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u6	Mr President, since I would like to have a debate with Mr Dewael in any case, I would like to share three reservations with him. Mr Dewael, you are first and foremost very energetic when it comes to careers, working conditions and pension conditions. Without wishing to polemicize too much, it is in stark contrast to the reluctance which many people, including your majority, have shown at the time when it was about the working conditions, wage conditions and pension conditions of politicians. A second reflection is about your remark that opposition and trade unions have no heart for people who are looking for a job today. I think that's a very crass statement. I also think that this is a statement that is at odds with the Prime Minister's plea for social dialogue. He's trying to be the fireman, Kris Peeters is trying to be the commander of the fire department and keep things together while you're playing the pyromaniac. You say you, Patrick Dewael, have a heart for the job seeker. That's what a party politician says to the job seekers that, if it were up to her, she would limit their benefit in time. Like Mrs Demir, you are convinced that people are going to apply better when they earn less and are hungry. This isn't right. It is such measures, ladies and gentlemen, that have ensured that we have a record number of people with a living wage today. [[Tumult]] Thirdly, I would like to invite Mr Dewael to print and read Mr Verherstraeten's speech. Mr Verherstraeten said that flexibility also has limits. It is very easy to talk here about night work, shiftwork, day contracts and flexi-jobs, but for a single mother this means a lot of difficulties in getting the child care organized or going to the dentist. That is the reality that was in Mr Verherstraeten's speech, but not in yours, Mr Dewael.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u7	Mr President, I have already said this: if the verb "stoken" does not exist, Mr Calvo would invent it. Mr Calvo, do you really think that Mr De Roover said this morning that I would be able to demonstrate that there would be no difference of opinion between the four government partners? Politics would only get shaky. Of course, the solutions we advocate are not always in line with the views of the coalition partners, but the most important thing is that the Prime Minister can make a synthesis at some point and that we, as a government, come up with a plan. Does that mean that there is no difference, that there is no difference of vision anymore? Politics would get boring. However, there is something more important, Mr Calvo. You are a young politician of a party and I wonder what perspective you are offering to the people who are looking for a job today. Mrs Demir, may I speak about your portfolio, poverty policy? What should one try with man and power? Getting these people out of poverty and getting them on the road to a job. I would add immediately that employers can also make additional efforts to this end. However, I still much prefer that someone should find their way back to the regular work circuit today, possibly via an interim job with the government or with any agency, or would you prefer to stick to the infusion of a benefit, whether it is a living wage, unemployment benefit or whatever? That makes debates like today's interesting, because we see that the left side is stuck in some kind of conservatism and does not believe that work also creates work. Today we see with the flexi-jobs that regular work in the catering industry is also increasing. What does that mean? Those are people who work. A person in unemployment is a cost to the government. A person who works also regains his dignity because he works, and he raises something for the government. We discussed a whole morning, with statistics and tables, to know what we do with wagers. I can make it very clear to the left that this government is doing more than it did in a previous legislature. The welfare envelope, which had been frozen up to 60% in the previous legislature, was raised to 100 % for two years and to 75 % today. The lowest benefits, such as unemployment, pensions, but also living wages, are significantly improving. Mr Calvo, my ambition is not to keep screwing these people up in some kind of benefit system, but to emancipate them so that they can move on to the labour market and find a job. The debate on liberalising the labour market is a fundamental debate. Let me give you a second example of seniority and wages. We are living in a system where as they grow older people cost more and more to the employer. They don't make too much money, but they cost too much. Mrs Temmerman, when I see how this has been resolved in the Scandinavian countries, with a flexible labour market that makes more than 80% of the active population effective, I take my hat off for that. I was told this morning that people are opposed to interim work in the government. I can't understand that. This is the ban on work imposed by the Socialist Party. Today we are more concerned with maintaining systems that make people unable to move freely into the labour market than with ensuring that they work. Prime Minister, I would like to say again, that is the optimism in our vision of society, ensuring that people find effective access to the labour market, ensuring that people do not cost the government any more. I am also looking at the reduction in the budget for unemployment benefits. Is there a better indicator than this one now? Well, I'll be happy when the budgets for life labourers fall. If these budgets fall, this means that in practice the wage-earners find their way to the regular labour market. That is an emancipatory and liberal view of the labour market.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u8	Mr Dewael, a number of Members have asked to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u9	Mr Dewael, the difference between us is not that you want to reform all kinds of things and I want to leave everything to the old. That's not the difference. In fact, I think that there are many things that need to be reformed in our country and that we need to do something about it. If we find that we are the European country after Malta today, which is the least easy to fill in vacancies, then I agree with you that we need to take steps. In fact, I agree with you on the following. And for that we are looking, among other things, at the other side of the street, at Mr Muyters, who could make life a lot easier for Mrs Demir. Colleagues of the N-VA, that competence, the employment service, we have entirely in our own hands. There is no French spoken at the table, which has been a Flemish competence for some time now, thanks to us, by the way. Mrs De Coninck remembers from the previous legislature, when she was Minister of Work, that my party, my group and I were very open to having these debates. However, what is a difference between us? You're starting from a negative human image. [[Rumor]] You hang a kind of dark blue empty liberalism that starts from a negative human image, from distrust in the others. [[Rumor]] You're starting from mistrust of the others, with the premise that someone who's looking for a job doesn't really want a job. You start from distrust in people who are having a hard time today, even to the extent that you have been resisting a power caster with all the fibers in your body for years. [[Rumor]] But in the meantime, in the fight against social fraud, you want to send private investigators to people who are unlucky. What's the difference with us? We are indeed leaving, and that may sound a bit impenetrable, from a positive human view. We believe that people who do not have a job today are basically looking for it. And at least you will not help those people, as you advocate, by taking their benefits. [[Rumor]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u10	You think that's emancipatory. You think that's progress. We believe that believing in the power of people, believe that they are really looking for a job, and helping them, will help much more than the punitive policy you have been advocating for several years.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u11	Mr Dewael, there is quite a laugh here on a subject of which a lot of people are awake, an important subject. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u12	I have said that there is a laughing matter, and I mean that in the plural. Firstly, Mr Dewael, if I hear you speak here about workers as a cost to employers, I think you could speak with a little more respect about the workers in our country. Secondly, I would like to hear you say that the best way to get someone out of poverty is to help that person get a job, and I fully support you in that. But how come, during your reign, 45 000 working poor were added? Thirdly, poverty is not only solved by providing benefits. However, poverty cannot be solved by reducing or reducing benefits. You can bounce the ball back by asking what solutions the opposition proposes. But, Mr Dewael, you've been running this government for three years now. I would like to hear from you how you will help the people who do not have a job today. Flexi-jobs and all other measures are intended for people who are already working today. What measures do you take to help those who do not have a job today?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u13	I would like to reverse the question; I will do so in a moment. The Prime Minister defended our results yesterday. There have never been so many jobs in the past year and unemployment has never fallen so much. That's the best proof, Mrs. Kitir, that our recipes work. What do you say to that? I'd like to hear how the left-hand side wants to create jobs. You have nothing against our recipes. You accuse me of all kinds of things, but perhaps you have not listened carefully or perhaps you are preparing the speech you are about to give. However, I have shown by figures that the benefits for people who are unable to find a suitable job due to circumstances have never been as high as they are now. I just talked about the welfare envelope. You should not shake no, you should look at the figures from the period you were in the government, not so long ago, when the welfare envelope was blocked at 60%. All benefits, pensions, unemployment, living wages have all risen. I would add, and I look at you, Mr Calvo, that we want to do more. Today there are a number of reforms that all of you, with the whole left, are baffling. I was talking about e-commerce. You disagree. I was talking about flexi-jobs, not as main concern, but as an excuse for someone who works, to make sure that they can keep net more and gain more purchasing power. You're against that. When I talk about other measures, pension measures to avoid people leaving the labour market far too quickly: you are against them. Mr Calvo, as far as my human image is concerned, let us remain a little serious on that point. Our vision in this regard is indeed more optimistic compared to the trade union talk that is sometimes expressed from your banks. If anything happens somewhere in the country, there are some people on strike or arguing, then you just follow them. You're conservative in that respect. You're the one who's in favour of preserving everything that exists. You remind me a bit of the inhabitants of that Gaul village, you know those comic books; perhaps you are the one who fell into the cauldron. The whole outside world around that village is changing, but the residents refuse to see it. Well, the whole world is changing and evolving, while you excel, Mr Calvo, in particular tight conservative thinking. I'd like to hear those measures from you. If we already agree that the benefits for all those who are struggling in our society are increasing, then I would add that it is my ambition to take those people out of their position of marginality. Can you tell me, then, what measures do you intend to take these people to the regular labour market? I mentioned some of them to you. You have not said yes to any of these measures, Mrs Kitir.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u14	I hear you sum up, Mr Dewael, e-commerce, interim and pensions, which we would all be against. What is the reality today, Mr Dewael? The e-commerce could be today, but what didn't the employers want? They do not want to pay the workers according to the wage and working conditions in our country. People looked at what happened in the Netherlands. Do you know which people do this in the Netherlands and for what wage? There are examples of employers who do work according to our wage and working conditions. The Prime Minister said yesterday that the government wants to tackle social dumping. [[Rumor]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u15	May I, please?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u16	Mrs Kitir has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u17	Yesterday there was a call for dialogue. That is why we must at least listen to each other. Yesterday, the Prime Minister said that the government wants to tackle social dumping. Well, then we must ensure that all our workers are given the same wage and working conditions, and then we must not play them against each other. As far as interim work is concerned, we have had the debate in the Chamber on abuses in interim work. I refer to the Panoreportage, about which everyone was outraged. There were even people who didn't know that Interim workers had to work under those conditions. We would deal with these abuses. What are you doing to deal with them? The only thing the government says is that one can now get a fixed contract for interim work, but without guarantee of the location of the work the following day and without guarantee of correct wage and working conditions. That is a model that neither my party nor I support. You don't have an answer to that sigh.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u18	Mrs Kitir, in all collegiality, the government does have an answer to that. Yesterday, the Prime Minister announced that this too is part of the Summer Agreement, which provides an additional envelope of EUR 100 million to combat social dumping, for example in the construction sector. Let me give a second example. People who age and are no longer able to cope with the pressure are encouraged to continue working in a part-time regime, a four-fifth scheme, with a parafiscal advantage for the employer who makes this possible. Mrs De Coninck, when you were still in the government, I once heard you here in the Chamber use the expression that everyone had to work with their feet and ears. We say it a little more respectful, namely that more people need to get to work. If someone threatens to leave the labour market too early, we believe that, for example, this person with his experience can still be a coach for younger workers. So try to keep the person in the company as long as possible. That's not a stick. That's a root, an encouragement and an incentive to keep people working longer. I'm getting to the whole pension problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u19	Mr Dewael, Mrs De Coninck wishes to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u20	Mr President, may I finish my part on pensions first? After all, a circle must be possible at some point. I will be very brief on the issue of pensions. We have had a long discussion here in the Chamber. We were denounced because we talked about gradually raising the retirement age to 66 years and 67 years. Mr Calvo, all the countries around us in the European Union have done so before us. Those are probably all countries without hearts. These are probably all countries that excel in social barbarism. However, it is just the self-evident fact that people, when they live longer, can also be happier by staying longer at work. That is what the pension reform is trying to make possible. What is reality today? The reality is that today the average age at which people retire is still 60 years. That is why I have pointed out that there is still work to be done to ensure that the retirement age not only increases legally, but also becomes de facto reality. We must all play our part in this objective. We must make that possible. I refer to Mrs De Block's measure on four-fifths works, at a time when someone is getting older and is in danger of being thrown out of that process. At some point, however, the statutes of civil servants, employees and self-employed persons must also evolve. Do you think it is justified that one should receive a pension of EUR 2 000, while another would receive a pension of EUR 1 200 and the self-employed would receive an average pension of EUR 800? Mrs Kitir, there is one important principle. For us, it is fundamental to build pension rights that work should always pay more than non-work. Today we notice that 30% of the pension mass consists of pensions that we pay out to people who have not worked for them throughout their working period. In order to enforce these principles, political courage is now needed, and I note from the Greens and the left that one is conservative, that one is conservative, that one refuses to jump, that one does not dare to take the steps that are being taken in all our neighbouring countries. I thought it was quite enormous that the left confronted us this morning with examples of countries that are doing well: Germany, the Netherlands, the Scandinavian countries, where 80% of the active population is working. All the measures taken in those countries have been denounced by you in the past. What is it now? One or the other? It also refers to the economic growth of countries such as Spain, Portugal and Greece. I just wanted to say that, Prime Minister. It is said that growth is higher there than it is with us. Do you know how far these countries are going to get? Do you know what misery these countries have experienced, often due to a policy that was not a liberal policy? This policy has made these people pay much more for the crisis. Is it not normal, then, if there is yet another economic growth process, that these countries are slightly above our country by percentage? Overall, the results of our country are excellent. That is the result of a policy that you will not approve tomorrow, Mrs Kitir, and I still wonder why.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u21	Mr Dewael, I did not expect it from you, but I think you are very unfair intellectually. You may be able to listen before you begin to disapprove. That's a matter of respect. The Prime Minister pleaded yesterday to listen too. You say that we live on the left in the Middle Ages, that we never want to change anything. You refer to a statement from me: all who have legs and ears must work. I thought that was pretty innovative. I don't know if that's conservative. It depends on how far one goes back in time. Frank Vandenbroucke, who was chairman of the Pension Commission, put forward proposals in this direction to Minister De Croo, who was responsible for pensions at the time. At that time, he made it clear that we had to make sure that people had longer careers. Sometimes he's called a socialist, sometimes he's not. It depends on how it's convenient. We take longer work and work for everyone as the basis for our party, all our history. We stand for, firstly, the right to work and, secondly, the right to decent work, in a context in which there is respect for workers. We advocate a number of conditions for this, because, obviously, we do not advocate slave labour. You quoted a number of figures. You say that unemployment rates have fallen. Yeah, but the number of life laborers has never been this high. The number of long-term sick has never been so high. There are also a lot of suspensions in unemployment. You're right about the fact that you've provided higher benefits. What about your story about the IV? In fact, I find that terminology unacceptable. In my experience, and unfortunately, I'm already old, most people want a normal life, and that's a job, a house, for the men a beautiful car, and for the women beautiful babies. [[Rumor]] The fact that you, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, are reacting in this way means that you are no longer in touch with the ordinary people in the street. Most people want security of existence, a roof over their heads, a cool job and good kids, and then they're happy. Most people just want a job. Suggesting that most people want to benefit when they are unemployed is not true, because it is an insurance principle. Nor is it true that they want to hang hours for television. If the Scandinavian countries manage to make more people work longer and get longer careers, then look at the systems that exist there to enable people to develop a longer career. I'm just thinking about the six-month paternity, maternity and parental leave. In the organisation of the labour market much more attention has been paid to people's life stages.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u22	Muffle De Coninck,...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u23	This is against the agreement, but it's been on date all day.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u24	Mr Dewael, I don't know about you, but if I have to choose between a beautiful car and beautiful children, then I choose beautiful children. Let there be no misunderstanding about that. Mr Dewael, the question was raised here whether Mr Vandenbroucke was a socialist or not, and whether he was quoted here as a socialist or not. I'm not going to rule on that. I know, however, that Mr Vandenbroucke has said that these pension reforms must be implemented so that they cannot be reduced by another government. However, I hear the opposition say that it is possible to solve future pension problems by reducing retirement age again and by working 30 hours a week. Then I wonder what all those young Flemings, all those young Brusselsers and all those young French-speaking people, who today, when they leave school, think that a pension will not be for them anymore. Well, we have a moral duty to ensure pensions for that young generation too. We will not do that by lowering the retirement age. We won't do that by making people work 30 hours a week. We'll do that because of two things. First of all, by looking for more money, and we do. There is an additional EUR 1.5 billion per year to ensure the sustainability of pensions. Secondly, we need to reform pensions. It's because of that double-crossing that we can pay the pensions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u25	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am trying to take the line again. We had said that it should be possible to build up a speech, albeit with some interruptions. I will not interfere with Mrs De Coninck's ideal of life. Maybe we can discuss this some other time. Mrs De Coninck, what I would like to strongly contradict is the image you are trying to portray of me, in which I appear to be someone who wants to punish and take those benefits. I repeat now for the third time that this government does the opposite and does more than you did when you were part of the government. That may hurt, but that is the reality. I have told you that I have an additional ambition. If I see how you hesitate to embrace reforms that have already been introduced in all the other countries of the European Union, I do not understand it anymore. Pension reform is a prime example of this. I'm gonna go along with what my colleague Beke said. Prime Minister, if we want to keep the system affordable in the future, and especially for the younger people in our society, then your reforms are urgently needed. Minister for Pensions, continue with your reforms, some of which you have already implemented. Instead of embracing it, which I do not yet ask, you, Mrs de Coninck, Mrs Temmerman, are trying to create fear among the population in every measure. It is said that people should be afraid of that, while the results of the government show that the opposite is possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u27	Mr President, I hear Mrs De Coninck saying that Mr Dewael is intellectually unfair. Mr Dewael, I see you there with a lot of rhetorical violence making the difference between what this government did and what the previous government did. I am very surprised at the political virginity you have shown yourself. I find it amazing that you can do that. You were also part of those previous governments. You have been part of it since 1999 and now, as other group chairmen of Open Vld have done before you, you are standing there defending those measures with a virginity as if it were all new. Had you had a part in the Bible, you would probably have made Mary Magdalene a virgin too.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u28	I'm gonna be 62 at the end of the week. Becoming a virgin again is pretty much the last of my ambitions. Mr Vuye, in the previous government we have taken steps towards moving forward today. The previous government had a different composition, but the measures on the degressivity of unemployment benefits, the pay cut and the waiting payments for young people were decided by the previous government. A number of parties on the left would prefer not to be reminded of this today. We have seen Mr Di Rupo try to camouflage some of these measures, but competitiveness was also the ambition of the previous government, which, because of its composition, could not go any further because of the conservatism of the left. The current government can take further steps in this area. This has nothing to do with virginity, but with the recovery policy that our country needs. However, I see you smiling. You are satisfied with the comment you have made, so I will leave you to that satisfaction. Mr President, I come to the trail. When we talk about conservatism and the trade unions, you do not feel the need to stop rail traffic yesterday, Mrs De Coninck. I asked myself why. I read in the official communication that he does so in the interests of the traveller. Can you be any more cynical? How strange can one be? I note that the Socialist Group supports this strike today. I've heard on the street that it's all the Socialists' fault. I think that is a little too cheap, I do not think that intellectually is always fair, but give the people on the platform who were waiting in vain for a train, now wrong. After all, it was no more or less than a political strike, on the hood of hundreds of thousands of people who simply wanted to go to work. Fortunately, they will soon be able to count on the guaranteed service, Prime Minister, thanks to your government and the railway staff who want to work. That's the vast majority. The time when a minority can hold a majority hostage in our country must definitely be a thing of the past. I would add that these trade unions should also consider the future of that rail company. When I started in politics, there was the Post, the RTT, the PTT, and the telephone company functioned as a government monopoly, governed by politics and held hostage by the unions. Today, these state-owned companies have been transformed into performing companies. Prime Minister, it is now five to twelve for the railway too. It is high time to turn SNCB into a performing company. In 2023, domestic passenger transport will be liberalised anyway. Either we ignore that and move towards a kind of Sabena bis, or we seize that opportunity and also free SNCB from politics and trade unions. I ask why SNCB could not be the same as bpost and Proximus. Today, these are thriving and performing companies. Mr President, I come to the fiction of the opposition. It's the duty of the opposition to oppose, but I say it calmly, I'm not going to provoke, I'll do my best. It's also the duty of the opposition to propose. By this I mean that, in my view, a debate on the State of the Union can only be meaningful and relevant if, in addition to the model proposed by the government, a model is formulated which is budget-based and quantified with the necessary tables. Then one can say that this is the alternative and then there would be no such thing in Knack, Mr Calvo. I also found it excessive as the weakest opposition in 25 years. Why is that written? That's written because today you excel in vagueness. No, you don't excel in vagueness. I'll get back to Asterix and Obelix. You think you have a magic potion. Luckily, we know there is no magic. There is an alternative that you put forward, and that applies to everything. For everything you propose, you have a miracle solution, the rich tax. This will speed up the process of budget restructuring. After all, that's your obsession. You want that budget to be balanced. You're going to cut back on all the clean-up that this government has done. Maybe you're going to leave the tax cuts up, because you're not really clear about that. Mr Calvo, would you please imagine that if you came to power now, what would you do with the tax reduction, the flattened tax reduction that this government has introduced? Are you going to screw it back, too? Mr Calvo has an investment pact of EUR 60 billion. Who's gonna pay for that? The rich! For everything, clean-up, a budget in order, new measures, higher benefits and so on, the rich tax is the answer. Ladies and gentlemen on the left, the answer is an intellectual and political poverty which prevents a serious debate between us.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u29	Mr Dewael, I will give you our file on the investment pact. It's all worn out. If you tell us that an investment pact of EUR 56 billion is not feasible, you are actually saying that the Prime Minister is dreaming when he proposes an investment pact of EUR 60 billion. With what we are proposing, we simply want to reach the level that our neighbouring countries are achieving today. Secondly, I do not often agree with Mr Vuye, but I think that you are getting rid of it very easily. In fact, you should apologize, because after so many years of liberal policy, taxes in our country are still massively focused on labour. You really don't have to lecture us on taxes. You say that the left side looks at the middle class and that the left side wants to increase all taxes. That's not right. However, we are calling for a tax reform. You are asking me to make the exercise in which I suppose we would have the power and have been on the governing buttons for 30 years. On that assumption, we would stand here today and charge that nuclear power stations are still open today. Ladies and gentlemen, that is what Patrick Dewael is doing. In his obstinacy not to make taxes fairer, in his conservatism, in his strike against fiscal justice, he defends a system in which people who work and people who work in our country are still being taxed. Mr Dewael, that is the result of your veto against fiscal justice. That is the result of the fact that you have been refusing to respond to a very broad call for a fair contribution from the greatest capabilities for three years now. You often argue that the left side wants to win the World Tax Championship by taxing everything that has to be done in our country. That's bullshit and monkey. As a green party, we want to win the world championship fair and simple taxes in our country. After a 20-year period with liberals at the wheel, that was not possible. Perhaps another coalition will be needed for this, but that will require much more modesty in the fiscal debate today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u30	Mr President, I have heard Mr Dewael's remark about the opposition, which has been the weakest since the last 25 years. I also read and, today, in a French-language newspaper, I noted that the Open Vld was the weakest party of this majority. I see that in the arguments put forward here by Mr Dewael. When you say that we are not making a proposal, I would point out to you that today, our remarks are a criticism of the Prime Minister's speech. I also invite you to go through all the parliamentary documents and to note the many proposals that have been tabled so far by my group and by the other opposition groups, but which have not received a favourable response from the government. I can reassure you: we will continue to table proposals and show that another policy is possible. It is not because our proposals are systematically rejected that we will be discouraged.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u31	Mr President, I note that a great deal is being said back and forth. It is said on the Greens' benches that there is not much talk of fiscal justice and that not much has happened during the period in which the liberals are at the wheel. Well, I can tell you that in the purple green period nothing happened about tax justice. There will now be a tax shift reduction, with a more balanced contribution from all types of income sources. Finally, there will be a contribution of EUR 1.3 billion from capital and capital. This is a much more balanced distribution and contribution from ability to pay taxes on labour. That didn't happen in purple green government times, but it did now.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u32	Mrs Smaers, I take it the memory of that purple-green period is not very pleasant for you. You're quoting that in an incorrect way. I want to be very clear about what I mean by fair taxes. Mr Minister of Finance, in a country where the tax on labour is still the highest, despite the tax shift, and the tax on capital puts us in third place in the European ranking, a fair tax is mainly a lower tax burden for me. Lower taxation because we know a lot of capital taxes in our country. We know the withholding tax. I would remind you that we have actually doubled it in just five years. In addition, there are also the property tax, registration fees, inheritance tax and the caiman tax introduced by this government. So I am not being told that nothing is happening in the area of capital tax. To give the impression to the people that all the problems would be solved if we were to slaughter the golden-egged chicken, after all, there is a category of super rich, if 2 to 3 % of the total population, is fake news. That is not in line with reality. The Prime Minister explained that we are now taking a number of new measures in the area of company taxation. We embrace it. I know that the Summer Agreement is a package of measures including a so-called securities tax. I'm telling you very clearly that I'm a cool lover of that. However, agreements are agreements. Contracting parties are bound by law and contracts must also be carried out in good faith. As far as that is concerned, there is no problem. It has been enough with all the time to give the impression that nothing is happening in the area of power taxation. Each of the interventions in this area in the past has had undesirable economic side effects. We have to ask the question about the increase in withholding tax or the government's income by increasing taxes. That's the so-called Laffer curve. For a number of taxes, this is effectively becoming the case in our country today. But again, if we implement the Summer Agreement and the Finance Minister comes up with his corporate tax reform, that will be a new incentive for our companies, for our companies, who will gain in competitiveness, which will strengthen their competitiveness. That's good for the economy. Can I just say it again now? With more taxes one does not create prosperity. On the contrary. The whole philosophy of the government is precisely that with lower taxation more people want to work and also more people want to do so. That's how people create jobs. And that has a positive effect on the budget. Mr President, I shall now come to my final point, and perhaps this will cause a little less commotion. Prime Minister, we are doing a great deal to help our country. Our country is small and we live in a constantly changing world. There are many challenges ahead of us, challenges beyond us, and on which we have less grip and less grip. There are limits to the feasibility of a society through politics. And then there are two things to do. One can try to lock himself in that village. I'll quote the statue of the Gaul village again. Or we can adopt a different attitude, one formed by an open vision of the world and an open vision of our society. The attitude in which we are locked up always leads to protectionism and conservatism. In other words, since we are good in our region, we are trying to defend our prosperity as much as possible and try to preserve what we have. The cake that you have to make will then become smaller and smaller. I call that an expression of conservatism, of protectionism. A strong example of this was a debate that we in Parliament once had on the free trade agreement with Canada. I never understood that. I never understood that a country like ours wants to lock itself in front of the outside world. Then a region, which at the same time exported arms to Saudi Arabia and did not show any ethical or moral scruple before that, refused to conclude a free trade agreement with Canada. I don't really understand that. I often observe this conservative, protectionist attitude, Prime Minister, in prosperous regions of Italy, in Flanders, in Carinthia, in Northern Italy, in Bavaria, in Catalonia, where there is a tendency to lock up, to tear off, to be independent, because what one has does not want to share with the world. Such an attitude excels in protectionism, which is irreconcilable with economic growth. I think we should not lose sight of that. I was glad that you started your speech with Europe and the changing world. It is that openness of spirit, that attitude, which we must continue to show in the future. I will conclude with a plea for trust in the place of conflict. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority and the opposition, I think we should try to bring more together instead of turning against each other. I also think that we need to be more aware of success stories rather than being involved with doomthinkers. The only people against whom we can and must polarize are those who are outside our society, who turn away from our laws, from our fundamental principles such as equality of men and women, freedom of expression, freedom of religion and separation of church and state. I say very clearly: there is no room for them here. Prime Minister, you know that as well as I do. You're going for dialogue instead of conflict. You connect instead of dividing. You are a very strong leader of more European cooperation. You are transforming to prepare the future. That is why my group will give you the confidence tomorrow with great enthusiasm.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u33	Mr Prime Minister, I would almost say: here we go again. Colleagues, do you remember Tomorrowland? Do you remember the euphoria of last summer? Do you remember the good atmosphere in the government? Blinking with pride she had concluded the Summer Agreement. The fights were settled. The major reforms were decided. I couldn't eat the fun. Prime Minister, you said with all enthusiasm that no government had realised for the past 25 years. Two months later, however, the fights are back. There is confusion, confusion and confusion about pensions. There is confusion, disagreement and uncertainty about the impact tax. Your summer chord was no longer an agreement by autumn. The Summer chord fit into a good news show. Yesterday you delivered the same message, wrapped in new sentences in a good news show. The fine words you utter are there to hide the truth. You're throwing sand in the eyes. Now take fiscal justice. A year ago, Kris Peeters walked away from the negotiating table, because the other majority parties did not want an added value tax. CD&V thought it was enough. There were enough savings on the people's hood. It was about time that the great abilities also contributed a pebble. There he was, the backbone of CD&V, back away. After all, hold on: it sounded like a profit of EUR 1 billion from shares paid a certain Marc C. EUR 0.0 taxes, big fraudsters paid off their sentence and EUR 80 billion disappeared in tax havens. So it got CD&V too much. It couldn't go on like this. People's call for fair taxation no longer fell into deaf ears. We're a year later now. What did it get you? Has anyone listened to the indignation of the people? Do we get a fairer system? No, the government has decided to introduce an securities tax. On a capital of half a million euros there will be a tax of 0.15 %. You heard me right. Thanks to the current government, people pay 21% VAT on their electricity and the assets of 0.15 % for their millions on the banks. That's the CD&V trophy. That's the trophy CD&V shows off. You pay more, they barely pay. Still, you manage to argue about that, too. Minister Van Overtveldt hasn't believed in it for a long time. Minister Peeters was once again worried and the Prime Minister had to intervene again. Colleagues of CD&V, in your place I would be ashamed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u34	Mr Kitir, I said this morning that just taxation is about more than just one tax. Moreover, I believe that the securities tax or capital tax is a fair tax, because those covered will, of course, like any Belgian, pay other taxes, such as corporation tax, income tax, VAT and inheritance tax. For them, that tax just adds up. If I look at this government's fiscal route over the past three years, with a tax shift of 4 to 5 billion, with the category that you also claim to defend and which we also want to defend, namely lower and middle incomes, most of it being spared, with the withholding tax, which we have increased, so that it has doubled over five years, with a stock market tax that has never been so high, the tax and ceilings have been raised, and with a caaiman tax, which we have never had before, which we have introduced and which we are now tightening up, I am not ashamed, I am not ashamed at all, but I am proud of the progress we have made in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u35	I just want to respond very calmly and factually to your line that the ordinary people pay 21% and that the super rich pay very little. That word hardly connects you to the 0.15 %. The comparison between that 21 % and 0.15 % is, of course, an easy number for public opinion. However, it does not pass the test of the equation at all. The securities tax is levied on an accumulated portfolio, after a corporation tax has already been levied on it and after withholding tax has already been levied on it, 33% and 30% respectively in the meantime. It would please you, Mrs Kitir, should you add those numbers and make the right comparison, contrary to what you have just done.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u36	Mr Verherstraeten, I listened to you very carefully this morning. I thought you might still be able to convince me. However, you stumbled upon your words, and you were not even given an explanation of what you said last year, namely that the large assets do not pay and that it is therefore time to put the burden on the big shoulders. Today you bring another story, you tell me that you're actually doing so much already. I'll be back later on the caiman tax. To be honest, you didn't convince me, and you didn't convince a lot of people at home. Mr De Roover, you say that I forget to mention that those who have half a million and have to pay 0.15 % or 750 euros also pay corporate tax. Do you think that people who pay 21 % VAT only pay 21 % VAT? Is that what you really think? They also pay their taxes every year. They also pay all kinds of other taxes that you have raised. The reality is that VAT on electricity has been increased from 6% to 21%, but that someone who owns a lot of money, half a million euros, is asked only 0.15 %. That is the reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u37	I would like to point out to Mrs Kitir that people with a portfolio of securities also purchase electricity and pay VAT on it. I would like to point out that they also pay consumer taxes, consumer taxes and indirect taxes. As far as personal income tax is concerned, those who make a lot of money bring together the highest quarter, about the whole amount of tax. We have a progressive system, and rightly so. As a result, low-income people, the lowest 50%, half, pay only 10% of the total amount of personal income tax. Again, rightly so. My point is that you make comparisons that are not correct and that you give the impression that some people here do not pay taxes. Mrs Kitir, through our system, those who do not pay taxes are the 20% of people with the lowest incomes. Those are the ones who don't pay taxes. That is a fine thing in itself, but that may be emphasised.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u38	You forget to mention that people who earn more than EUR 1 billion profit from shares also pay EUR 0.0 taxes. We can keep playing a ping-pong game here. In any case, you have not convinced me, and I do not think many others with me either. What do I remember about all the fights that were going on in this government? What do I remember about this morning's debate? It only proves to me that fair taxation within this government is still taboo. True fair taxation means that every income is taxed, whether it comes from labour or from property. A euro is a euro. But this government can't do that, and neither does this government. So we get the same show every year: first there's a beautiful show, then they show the reality, then they start fighting again. Every year a contribution of the great capabilities is announced, but every year it turns out to be a battle in the water. The caiman tax? He's barely getting anything. The speculation tax? It's been taken away by now. The added value tax? It's never been introduced. And now the impact tax is set up in such a way that it can be easily avoided. Today, even experts come on television to explain how to avoid them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u39	Mr Kitir, you just mentioned non-taxable income. All income, movable and immovable, shall be taxed in one form or another. You say that one tax is nothing, that the other has nothing to do with it, and you add that experts explain how to circumvent it. If your story is true, and those two things are linked together, people would not put so much money into transaction costs and in honorary wages to avoid a tax which, in your opinion, means nothing. Should it be as you are wrongly claiming here, there would be no incentive to circumvent taxes. If there is talk of bypassing left and right, that means that these taxes mean something.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u40	Ms. Kitir's reasoning is completely different from yours. She just said that it is because you have left tax engineering spaces precisely that it will not give the return you had imagined and that you have transposed it into the budget. She's absolutely right. In academic circles – it's not just anyone – you are explained that you have retreated to the central point of contact and that it is through this that you could have avoided engineering with account splitting. Even this has not been introduced into the system adopted by the government! As a result, your tax will be bypassed. Once again, the CD&V will be the stuffing turkey. That is the reality, Mr Verherstraeten.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u41	Mr Laaouej, I do not know if you were present when we were discussing the extent of the subject that can be assessed. I don't use numbers from scientists, although I can respect them. I simply gave figures from the National Bank this morning on the number of securities that may be the subject of this tax. So that's not taken out of the air. In this respect, we are committed to fines, high fines. That's what they say. The scientists you referred to earlier say they're serious fines. We'll bet on control. That is what the Minister for Finance has said on this point. As far as the Central Contact Point is concerned, if there are indications of serious fraud, the law will of course remain fully applicable.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u42	A person who does not pay what he or she owes to taxes could immediately receive a notice of rectification. But with the tax on securities accounts, fraud indicators should first be notified in order to possibly conduct an investigation (...). Can you imagine the procedure? You've once again been fooled. You're talking about the plate, the villa companies. Answer my question! Are villa companies covered by the security account tax? Are heritage societies, with which some engineer and house their large barracks, targeted?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u43	We had agreed to hold the debate with the speaker.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u44	Mr President, I will specifically address Mr Kitir, who has just said that she believes that every euro earned should be taxed. Mr Kitir, may I point out that the 20% of the least-earning residents do not pay income taxes? I don't know if you're proposing to tax these people, just like the rest of them. You must be logical. For the sake of clarity, I repeat that we agree that this progressivity exists, but 45% of the taxes are now paid by the 10 % most earned. You must stop giving the impression that the weakest shoulders pay the most taxes. The opposite is true. That is right, but I ask you not to constantly cover up this reality with populist talk.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u45	Mr De Roover, a euro is a euro. You claim that this would affect those who do not pay taxes today because they earn so little. I'll get you our proposal. We're working with a forfait that doesn't touch those people. In our system, those who have a lot of money and who are now avoiding taxes will pay. It's a fairer system. If you are so interested in it, I will certainly deliver it to you, but unfortunately I have little hope that you will carry it out. Mr Verherstraeten, I'd like to see you defend the securities tax. I understand you, too. First, they pawned you with the speculation tax. In the meantime, it's been taken away. The caiman tax is there, which is also the first time, but it barely pays off. In this government, you only have the securities tax that you can show off after this legislature, so you have every benefit in getting it and getting it. I believe and understand you. I just hope that you have not been the naive partner of the government, and that after a year the government should not say again that the securities tax has not worked and that it will have to change the rules again. So we'll talk in a year. Then there's the tax shift, this government's stick horse. More money in your own hand, but then you take it off with the other hand. It's been said here before, but who do you believe now? Many people's electricity bill is over EUR 300 higher than it was two years ago and there are over 80 000 new payment plans because families cannot pay their increased electricity bill. They are always the same where you are going to knock on the door to fill your budget. That's the tax shift, too. You give with one hand, you take with the other hand.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u46	Mr President, excuse me, but that really is the definition of a shift. A shift means a shift, which means that we reduce the burden on labour. That means very concretely, the example was quoted yesterday: a low-wage person will earn more or pay less tax on a net amount of EUR 150 per month at the end of the legislative term. This means that employers who invest on low wages will have to pay substantially less taxes. That's the definition of a shift. We tax less on labour and we shift it to other sources of income. That's just the definition of a tax shift.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u47	Thank you for the explanation, Mr Beke, but I understood. I don't think you understood me. I told you earlier. If you make sure that people have net more left over today but at the same time have to pay EUR 300 more for electricity while they consume less, then I say that you give on the one hand and take on the other. That's the tax shift you're going through. Dan de jobs, jobs, jobs.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u48	That is indeed a shift. However, what you often forget is that this tax shift mainly goes to people who have an income below EUR 2 800, which is just about the point where we moved it, mostly for those lowest incomes. Secondly, with regard to coughing up, at least as far as the federal part is concerned, for higher electricity costs and other matters, the index appears. A year later, this was recovered through the index mechanism. So it's a tax shift but it's actually a very special tax shift. Just because we have an index mechanism in Belgium, the people on the one hand have got more because they are working at an additional EUR 150 per month and what they cough up in what you're going to call the other leg is, for the most part, returned via the index. Actually, the companies pay for that piece. When all that is calculated... I am sometimes amazed by your cocktail of calculations. The index jump is gone, and you can set it off. However, there are a lot of increases in the tax shift that can be recovered later via the index. That's where you're mathematically wrong. You're wrong about that, just like the unions. I continue to claim that the statistics prove, by the way, that the available income has increased by the end of the year. That did not just fall out of the sky, that is indeed the result of this tax shift.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u49	Mr Bogaert, I note that you have been arguing all day, from behind your laptop, to show with figures that it is all different and that we are obviously making wrong calculations. Now, I invite you, which you may not be doing, to join me on the market...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u50	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u51	Just chill, I'll come to my answer! Mr Bogaert, I have heard you say here all day that people's disposable income has increased. What does that mean, however? You mean the income before the different taxes on value added are levied, aren't you? You mean the collection of wages and capital, don't you? I have also looked at these figures and the total has indeed increased. But what part of it has gone up the most? Capital gains have increased most, but not wages. You argue that income has been increased, and you claim that people earn more and more net, but with that argument you won't get any further with me.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u52	Mr President, will you allow me to continue my speech?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u53	Mr Bogaert, I did not give you the floor. You have to ask her. (Mr Bogaert asked for the floor)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u54	You have the floor for a maximum of two minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u55	(...) Forgive my confusion. I don't even know what we were doing anymore. You say that there are statistics in which income from work and other income is not only combined with capital and that it is positive there. I think you're referring to that statistic. But you shouldn't pretend that other income isn't income for the people. This also proves that there are limits to the valuation of other sources of income outside labour. This income also counts for the people. And there are a lot of ordinary people who have other sources of income besides their income from work. It's a good thing people put these two together. And that is what is called the disposable income. These statistics can be monitored at any time. I wanted to give that to you in all kindness and collegiality.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u56	Thank you for this lesson. Jobs, jobs, jobs, I'm glad the economy attracts. Any job that comes with it, I'll applaud. But can we ask ourselves what kind of jobs we are talking about? Some of them pretended that's a detail. Do they offer enough certainty? Are they a real protection against poverty? There are 40,000 extra working arms. Half of the new jobs are rewarded at the lowest level. Fifteen thousand people work permanently with day contracts. That too is a reality, a reality of uncertainty and flexibility, a reality of a lack of opportunity. Low-skilled people still get far too few opportunities. Fifty-six people have to send a hundred applications, but are not invited until they keep their age secret. People with a strange name have to send a hundred applications, but are not invited until they keep their names hidden. There will finally be practical tests, but real equal opportunities will require much more. Has the Summer Agreement changed anything about that uncertainty and flexibility? Mr Peeters' promise to help every Belgian get a job has been replaced by giving every working Belgian an extra job. Flexi jobs are executed. The trial period shall be re-imported. Abuse with day contracts is not dealt with. In short, more flexibility. But when does it stop? When's the limit reached? When will it be enough? You give people with a job more opportunities for a second or a third job than you offer opportunities for people who don't have a job today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u57	Mrs Kitir, I agree that we must make efforts to create quality jobs. I have already said this in connection with other discussions. However, you are going too far, because as far as day-to-day contracts are concerned, you are well aware that we have instructed the Social Inspectorate to carry out additional inspections in certain companies and sectors. In addition, we have called together the social partners for collective agreement No. 108, which is specifically the subject of this report, to be improved. We are giving the social partners the opportunity to adjust certain matters themselves in order to improve the control, monitoring and agreement on day-to-day contracts. We also discussed part-time and full-time jobs this morning. I assume that you do not dispute that the number of full-time jobs has increased and that the number of part-time jobs has increased. I have already underlined in the past that in the group of part-time jobs the larger part-time jobs have increased, which is also a good evolution. Again, we also go for quality jobs. We are also concerned that people with jobs do not always get out of poverty and that certain other elements still need to be addressed. I hope you also acknowledge, especially with regard to day contracts, that you are wrong. What you have come to say is not correct, because actions have been taken in this area and others will follow.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u58	Mr Minister, I simply note that there is no concrete solution on the table today to deal with the day contracts. It's not a new story. We all know it, we all know it. I will support you if you will deal with the day contracts, but it will have to be something more for me than organising consultations and saying that you will send out more checks. There's no justification for misusing day contracts anymore today. If you tackle them, you will receive the support of my party. On the job figures, I repeat my words: every job that comes with it, I support, whether it's full-time jobs or part-time jobs that grow. My point is that you're doing far too little for people who don't have a job today. People who are low-skilled get few opportunities. I am pleased that you are going to introduce practical tests, but practical tests alone will not be enough. Together with the regions, you will have to look at how these people can work effectively and get equal opportunities. I hear you're reaching out. I'll fight with you for those people to get a job, too. It should not be just about flexibility, flexibility, flexibility. People are asking for a full-fledged job, with freedom and security. You'll find us in that. Unfortunately, I have missed that in your draft on workable work. Now the bill comes in. We've been three years, and what do we see? More and more people are falling back on health care due to the high workload. In that health care, the government saves, while investment is just needed. Tens of thousands of people can't see straight, but they can't buy glasses. One Belgian out of three with hearing problems can't afford a hearing aid. One Belgian out of three with dental problems, can't pay the dentist bill and only goes to the dentist when the pain is really unheard of. Hear, see and laugh shouldn't be luxury. For a lot of people, it is. That is why we should not save money in health care, but invest. That is why we should not save on social security, but invest. Because what exactly is social security? What's the significance of that? It is the certainty that one is not left to one's fate in the event of a setback. It is the certainty that one should not worry about his old age. It is the certainty that one should not worry about the day when one becomes ill. It is the certainty that one has shelter when one loses one's job. To be sure, the Socialists have fought for years. To be sure, the socialists will continue to fight. What is the effect of this government? A saving of EUR 4.5 billion on social security. With every new saving, people are more concerned. We are talking about young and old people, about single people and families, about people in the office and people in the factory. The debate on pensions has made that concern really painfully clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u59	Mrs. Kitir, I'd like to respond to what you're saying. You say people should be able to have glasses, hearing aids, dental care and so on. That's true, of course. You borrowed it from the Socialist Mutualities, but that's family, I understand. Nothing prevents the mutualities, and certainly the Socialist Mutualities, from including those things in their supplementary insurance. In the pact with the insurance institutions, we ask that they repay the people for matters of which their health is improving, rather than investing in saunas, margarines and so on. I'll meet you there. That is also what I am asking for from the supplementary insurance of the mutualities.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u60	I would just like to say, Mrs Kitir, that I am completely biting you. In recent years, the needs of dental care, hearing aids and eye care have increased considerably. This has to do with the invoices you mentioned at the beginning of your speech. We believe that the savings made in recent years go too far. Last year alone there were savings of EUR 900 million and this year for some EUR 237 million, let me tell you. The day before yesterday the General Council of the RIZIV approved this with fresh reluctance. I fully agree that there are efficiency gains to be made. Instead of investing the savings and efficiency gains back into existing needs, this simply disappears. That's what we're talking about. We believe that compulsory insurance should include the needs of everyone and not just the niche gods.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u61	Prime Minister, I come to pensions. This is a very important theme. A lot of people are worried about it. It is therefore important that there is broad support for any reform. That's exactly what your government has never bothered to do. There is no plan, no vision and no clarity. From the start, it was price. It wasn't in any election programme, but you raised the retirement age with a fingernip. Afterwards, one saving was followed after another. The equivalences were reduced. The pension calculation was adjusted, which will reduce people's pensions. Women with short careers and part-time jobs are often the victims. People in education are also crying out for help. People with heavy professions may be the next victims. It's less and less and less and less and less and less and less and less and less and less and less and less and less and You have even recently started privatisation of pensions. Well, that's basically what buying off college years is all about. Those who can afford to buy off their academic years today will receive more pension in the future, provided, of course, that they live long enough. You only look at pensions as costs, which need to be cut, while the pension is not enough to pay for a rest home. You have only given pensioners the disadvantages of the tax shift and not the benefits. Every time the message is: it has to be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u62	Mrs. Kitir, I have two questions. You say that pensions are constantly being saved. What do you think of the fact that EUR 1.5 billion more is spent on pensions every year? You're saying everyone gets less pension? Can you give me an example of someone who is now retired and who is receiving less pension from government measures than before? In all the measures that have been taken for the future, people can avoid getting less pensions by working more or longer, that's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u63	If more people retire, they will also spend more on pensions. It makes sense for the budget to increase. These are the ageing costs that are coming towards us. The only way to solve this problem is to get more people to work. You're asking for an example. Let me give you the example of 14 000 people. Fourteen thousand citizens in our country started working before their 20th and rose early every day. Well, at the end of their career, the calculation of their pension will no longer be based on the best earning years, but on the worst years. You may disagree with me, but that's a decision of your government. All I hear from the government is that there's no other way. That's the government's mantra every time. There's not gonna be a plan. It is said that such measures are necessary. There is no vision, but a doom of the future. The cost of ageing is always used as an excuse to cut pensions. In the meantime, you are undermining the funding of social security. The best solution for ageing costs is, as I have already said, to get more people to work. However, you are mainly letting people who already have a job do some extra work. They will not make a full contribution. In this way, you will not compensate for the cost of ageing. The result is clear. You're not reassuring the future. In the Summer Agreement, there are yet another 273 million euro savings on pensions. Do you remember how you wanted to do that? Some ministers had suddenly forgotten it after a few weeks. However, you had decided to reduce the pensions of workers who would lose their jobs after their 50th. Imagine that. Someone has a career of 40 years, but they become unemployed after bankruptcy. In vain, he's looking for a job. However, the current government will not feel sorry for him. She had decided to give him less pension. It was really unheard of. People who were so close to retirement, the government wanted to take away their pension. Where was the social face of the current government? Fortunately, my party caught the government. Fortunately, sp.a has responded and the measure has since been deleted. However, can people sleep on both ears? Can they be reassured now? Can they now look forward to a carefree old age? I'm afraid not. The measure was only provisionally removed. The N-VA and Open Vld have already announced that they will retable the measure next time. Meanwhile, another saving measure remains in place. All workers who have started working before their 20th birthday will be punished when they become unemployed at the end of their careers. That measure will not be deleted.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u64	Mrs Kitir, I have a brief question about the 50-plussers. Do you think it is social and fair that an executive who becomes unemployed at the age of 54 should receive unemployment benefits in our country, even until he retires? Do you think it is fair that during that period he builds twice as many pension rights as someone who works on the assembly line in the same company and continues to work for up to 65 years? Do you think that's social and just?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u65	Mr. Spooren, you take one case, and that's why you're punishing all the other 50-plussers. You are now quoting the example of an executive. However, the measure applied to every 50-pluser. You think one thing is unfair, and that is why the whole system must be overturned and everyone must pay. Then there is the measure whereby employees receive more pensions if they work longer than 45 years. That sounds good until we find out who those employees are. Who can handle staying active in our country for so long? I don't think it's the girls and the masters in kindergarten. I don't think it's the nurses and nurses in our rest homes. I don't think it's the factory workers. They are now all once again left behind in uncertainty. There is uncertainty, because there is still a need to discuss the definition of a heavy occupation. The decision on this will have a major impact, including on people's pensions. That work has to pay for the pension, we all agree. But why did you abolish the pension bonus? You can reward workers; you choose to punish job seekers. You can increase pensions; you choose to reduce them. You can strengthen social security; you choose to reduce it. Ladies and gentlemen, politics is not only about what you do, but also about how you do it. Politics is about how we live together and how we interact. Prime Minister, you are calling for dialogue. You call for decency. For three years, however, you have kept your eyes and ears closed. Now you're surprised when you get a reaction. We don't just need a policy that connects people. We need a policy that stands up for everyone and fights for everyone. That is our mission, every day, in words and also in deeds. Prime Minister, people are worried. A lot of people are looking for trust and security. That's not what you give people. They get broken promises about a budget in balance, about a pension at 65 years, about raising benefits to the European poverty line. They get into a lot of fights and a show about correct taxes, when nothing really changes. They get jobs, but they're mostly jobs for those who already have jobs. They get savings on pensions from you, making them even more concerned about their future. Prime Minister, your choices do not lead to certainty, but rather to less confidence. You are asking for trust today, but you still have not earned trust from us. The sp.a cannot give your government confidence.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u66	Mr President, in view of the time allotted to me, I am not going to reopen the debate on the figures which have been cited and used in relation to the number and quality of jobs created. This debate is extremely important and is also developing outside this Parliament. I think that in the coming weeks or months, we will be called upon to talk about it again in a very useful way because the stakes are very important. Prime Minister, you do not mind me not going back to that part in the gallery. A little over 24 hours ago, you were here, in my place, to make a statement of the union. I will not say that your speech was uninteresting and my colleague, Mr Calvo, will not either reject all the arguments you have put forward or say that everything is wrong. But I would like to take advantage of this place to highlight elements that you have not encrypted or quoted. In this state of union we, the environmentalists, would like to brush with you, there are dimensions other than those you mentioned. I would like you to bounce back on these elements during your reply, which I am going to highlight. I will start with a sentence from your speech. This is a confession, a recognition. You said, "The risk of poverty remains too high in Belgium." You're right. It is not without reason that I intervened specifically on this object. Let me give you some figures about this poverty. I have consulted Eurostat statistics and I hope you will not criticise them. There are now 2,235,000 people living below or near the poverty line in Belgium. You did not quote these figures, but you quoted the sentence I mentioned earlier. I would therefore like everyone here, the majority and the opposition, to be able to see the number of people involved. They are not just people who do not want to work; there are also pensioners. I guess the N-VA isn't going to put them back to work. There are also people who are unable to work. I'll come back. I would also like to hear from you earlier about the reality of these people. What message is given to them? In 2010, when you were not yet Prime Minister, Belgium made a formal commitment to achieve a quantified poverty reduction target: less 380,000 people at risk of poverty by 2020. You will tell me that there are three years left; that is not wrong. However, where do we stand in relation to this objective? Today, in 2017, we are more than 141,000 people compared to the reference date, which is 2008. This is a huge problem, which is hidden in most political discourses. This evolution, not only will not lead to the objective, but goes in the opposite direction. This is why the Ecolo-Groen group is putting this issue first in its intervention. It is not a question of unnecessarily polemicing. We do so so that everyone is aware that Belgians are suffering. There are also some in the North; it is not just Wallonia, contrary to what I have been told too easily. When you answer us, I would like you to refer to this. That is why, Mrs Demir, we were shocked by your comments on television. Indeed, I took with me the Prime Minister's first speech, that of 2014. He says: "We are making a strong commitment. Minimum social benefits will be raised to the level of the European poverty line." Your remarks were not hypothetical, depending on the budgetary means, but assertive. We saw, gradually, from 2015 to 2017, the strength, the power of change that some of us were talking about, and the commitment made in 2014, weakened as you made successive statements. Today, when you come to the rostrum, I would like you to make the same commitment again. I'm not asking you for a miracle. I ask you to say what Charles Michel said here in 2014, and to make this commitment a reality. That's my first point. Secondly, I would like to target, among these people in difficulty, a particular audience, that of Belgians who are on long-term sick leave. Unless I was mistaken, you did not mention this point, but perhaps he was present in your reflection. It's not a criticism. In 2014, when you became Prime Minister, 315,000 Belgians were on long-term sick leave. Today, three years later, there are 365,000 Belgians, fifty thousand more. I see it as a bad game of communication between this policy of exclusion, particularly on the unemployment side, and the policies which must then play a role of social net and recover those people who are excluded elsewhere. In the end, you're not making any money. Look at the budget figures that Mr Gilkinet gave me just before I went up to the gallery. He's our specialist in the field. In 2014, long-term diseases cost you $6.3 billion. In 2017, we reached $7.7 billion. It costs you more than if a policy was actually put in place to take these people into consideration. The figures from Securex that just came out about the burn out called me. I hope you do, too. In the first quarter of 2014 - you arrived in the third quarter, but I have the first quarter figures - 185,530 people were in burn out. In the first quarter of 2017, 332 740 were. It's almost a doubling. And this is a social indicator! One can criticize the figures, one can say that it is not quite right, clarify the definition of burn out, etc. But, nevertheless, there is a heavy trend that emerges from this. And I would have liked to hear words about it, and proposals. At this point, I didn't hear any. And you'll have an opportunity, just now or now.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u67	Mr President, very briefly, I appreciate Mr Nollet's tone on the substance and I will also react in substance to try to enrich the debates we have. First of all, Mr Nollet, on the question of poverty, I fully share with the whole government the point you make. And we take this dramatic situation completely seriously, which must mobilize us. But perhaps I would like to broaden the debate in relation to what I heard earlier. Of course, there is determination - and it is a work that is not simple, let us acknowledge - to move closer to, or even to, the European thresholds for the fight against poverty. We have made substantial progress in this regard, for example by increasing the income of social integration by 9%, which has been increased five times, or by increasing the welfare envelopes that have been decoded in comparison with the previous legislature. But from our point of view, Mr Nollet, and here I hope that we can also find ourselves, the fight against poverty, it is not only a question of allowances, but also a question of employment. When we succeed in creating the conditions for 130,000 or even 146,000 jobs – according to the latest figure from the National Bank – to be created, this is obviously a way to provide an answer to reduce the danger, the risk, the threat of slipping into poverty at some point. Another argument, Mr Nollet: for example, we are very aware of the major difficulties for single-parent families, even when the parent – the mother or the father – is working, to tie both ends. We make decisions to try to intervene better, to bear the costs of child care. We do not say that everything is resolved, we are trying to mobilize resources. Social actors, the CPAS, received an additional EUR 92 million under this term. If I translate in terms of personnel, it is an additional 2,000 full-time equivalents that can be mobilised by local authorities to try to better support a proximity approach. The fight against poverty is fully mobilising the federal government, as I think the Regions and local authorities must be. And I would really like to convince you that, on this subject, we have the same total determination to try to move forward within a broad angle. The automatic recognition of social rights is a very important step forward and I think that we should be pleased that this automatic recognition can gradually enter into force. I regret, Mr Laaouej, that this has not been possible before! It has been years since in this country we should have taken the step of automatic recognition of social rights! You have not yet done so, we will try to do so as far as we are concerned! I mean,...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u68	Good! Prime Minister, the rule is the same for all stakeholders, whether they are ministers or parliamentarians. It was agreed that the interruptions could last 2 minutes, you are already close to 3 minutes. I just wanted to remind you, that's all! I invite you to finish.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u69	Mr President, we are on the substance of the debate, and I would like to allow...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u70	Everyone is on the bottom of the debate!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u71	Mr President, I am being asked by Mr Nollet, and I would like to allow him to get an answer. I am being questioned, allow me to answer! My second point concerns incapacity for work. We agree with that, but if you look at the figures before the government was set up, it is not a new phenomenon. It is a phenomenon that has already developed in previous years. Before the government was put in place, there was a rather dramatic increase in both burn-out and incapacity for work. Mr Nollet, we want to act on this issue, not only by encouraging all actors, but also doctors, to be responsible. There is also a need to be more active in the preventive field in relation to this. I hope that, when they are around the table, the social partners will encourage them and that they will be able to work with the government for more prevention in the context of burn out. Maggie De Block and Kris Peeters bet on it. This is indeed a pressure phenomenon that I mentioned in my speech. I said that new ways of working lead to opportunities but also to constraints, such as pressure at work, competition, competition. We have to take this issue of burn out with the body. So I'll give you an appointment. Let us work together, perhaps with you, government and parliament, to move forward with the social partners, so as to provide the right answers to this phenomenon that our society is facing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u72	I give the floor to Mr Laaouej for a personal fact.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u73	Let's not exaggerate anyway! The Prime Minister has been harancing me for the last time. That's the debate!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u74	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u75	No, no. I see. Everyone's style! I understand from your remarks that you are disavowing Mrs Demir's untimely interventions, if I may say so. That's what I remember from your speech. I think it is clear that you are disavowing Mrs Demir, whose act. All right.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u76	Thank you. Mr Nollet, you have the floor. The advantage of interruptions is that you have just six minutes left.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u77	Prime Minister, I agree with you on two points. First of all, it is clear that work and increased opportunities for entry into the labour market are positive for some of the people who are in poverty or are at risk of being in poverty. Of course. Nobody in our group, it seems to me, denied it. But that is not all because I quoted, in these risks of poverty, people who are pensioners. I know we can work at 80, in politics anyway. However, not everyone is in this situation. Therefore, accept that, for this situation, a specific approach must be taken. The second point I agree with you is that the burn out did not begin with the arrival of Charles Michel as Prime Minister. But the increase in burn outs over the last three years must talk to you. Compared to the last few years, of course, there was an increase. But in this case, the figure has doubled. The situation is the same for people with long-term illness. I stress that this situation must be linked to the structural policies that you have pursued. A third black dot – and hidden part of your speech, though! – is related to pollution. You say that fine particles cause thousands of deaths in Belgium and Europe. You're right, once again. I quote a figure: 10 000 premature deaths in Belgium. It seems to me that this situation requires real political changes, not just oral consideration. You quoted it without giving the number. Belgium, today, is the country that subsidizes the most traffic jams. Belgium currently has 445,000 company cars, most of which are "salary" cars. That's 45,000 more since you were Prime Minister. On the other hand, SNCB is experiencing a sharp contraction in budgets. Mr. Van Hecke is our specialist and he's here. He reminds me regularly that this did not start with your government: 1 billion savings under the Di Rupo government with impacts on this legislature, and 2 billion more. That's a total of $3 billion. Such economies create problems. People are pushed towards the car. We must therefore do the opposite. You must now engage in a break-up from this kind of policy. But what do we see? In 2017, 57 days of traffic more than 100 kilometres in Belgium, while in 2014, when you came to the government, we were 42 days away! The FEB, which you know well, has quantified the economic cost of these plugs to 8 billion euros per year. The idea is not to remove all cars from companies because some are necessary, of course. But is there no way of harmonising and halving Germany's figures? Can we not spend this saved money on public transport, carpooling and cycling? There is a way to get on this path in three or four years and to set targets for each other. Prime Minister, I think that if you want to reduce the number of people who are victims of fine particles, you have to engage in this kind of policy. We need to be consistent. Look at the CO2 figures, which you didn't mention either: 113 million tonnes of CO2 when you arrived. Today, 118 million tonnes, while reductions are needed! The Paris Agreement is signed. Maybe you'll go to Bonn, I don't know. It's in a few days, early November. What are the commitments you can make when you see the numbers exploding? The link is all found with the energy pact. He was the monster of the Loch Ness of Belgian politics. We've been talking about it since you've been here since 2014, but we still don't see it. I know we live in the country of surrealism, but, Prime Minister, don't tell me this is the energy pact! Don't worry! This document, which I have in hand, which is circulating and which we have been able to obtain, would be on the agenda of your government on 15 October. You're going to tell us that it's just a state of affairs, that it's not going to count, that you're going to be able to do something other than just a collection...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u78	Mr President, I will speak to save time in the debate. Mr Nollet, you are asking a question which you know the answer to! In fact, I have made it very clear that I wanted to have all the ambition that I wanted to have in the framework of this investment pact. During the parliamentary debates a few weeks ago, you have already received indicative lists of public and private projects or public/private joint projects. That's not the document you're using. There's a strategic side that's unfolding...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u79	I was talking about the energy pact.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u80	Excuse me, I thought you were talking about the investment pact.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u81	Go on, Mr. Nollet!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u82	Prime Minister, I'm talking about it right after. I just wanted to be reassured that the document currently circulating under the title "Energy Pact", which will be on your government's agenda and which the press talked about yesterday, is not your energy pact. In this document, there is only one state of affairs. We need a vision! We need goals! We need a multi-year plan. This is what Belgium lacks. I can only invite you, when you come to the rostrum earlier, to confirm that this document is not the energy pact, that you will work very quickly – since normally on 15 October next, the item will be on the agenda – to do anything other than simply a very vague state of affairs, without ambition, without hierarchy, without a proposal for a decision. I come to my last point. We were talking about a pact, I'm going to talk about another pact, namely the investment pact. Prime Minister, you said, "The investment pact is now!" Shit! Chiche for a real investment pact, with a vision, with numerical objectives, with projects anchored in the territories. In our proposals, which I am going to present to you, there are declinations of targets in terms of renewable energy, buildings, human capital, etc. There are also variations in the territories. You know I'm from Charleroi. We recently suffered as a result of the closure of the Caterpillar site. Jobs have been lost but there is also an opportunity with space, premises and staff available. Why not bring an industrial storage and battery development project to Caterpillar? We know that, in addition to renewable energies, it is absolutely necessary. We make this kind of proposal in our pact. Let's be clear, it's not to be taken or left. We suggest additions, criticisms, remarks. We need to be able to really discuss it. Here, there's concrete, it's no longer an idea. We're offering it to you. For us, this cannot be an investment pact, where we recycle everything we can't yet budget. I am thinking, for example, of planes or prisons. No, here, you have something looking to the future. Our dearest wish today is that, in a year's time, when you come back here, we can say that we did it together. We don't agree on everything, we know, a lot of things divide us. At the very least, we can find ourselves on this but, this time, more than just in ideas. My colleague Calvo will complete my speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u83	Mr Calvo, you will have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u84	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, I am not telling you a secret when I say that our group is always very much looking forward to moments like this, the discussion of a declaration of government. We look forward to this as representatives of the people and also as Ecolo-Green MEPs who like to do politics, but also as residents of our country. I would therefore like to start by explicitly mentioning some positive points. First of all, you were on time this year. It has been a bumpy track to the Summer chord, but this year you have made the deadline. We will have a lot of debate about the Summer Agreement. We will support the good points, for example the reform of corporate taxation. At other times, for example when it comes to savings in social security, we may be your fiercest opponent. But you are on time; that is a first positive point. A second positive point is that you are addressing the issue of the national investment plan that we have put forward. You have heard the criticism and decided that we need such a plan and you are prepared to cooperate on it. I hope that this outstretched hand is genuine, because frankly I am a little tired of talking here about cracks in nuclear power stations and Brussels tunnels that are leaving life. Our country deserves better. I think we should look ahead for more than six months in our country. A third positive point is that you sounded very pro-European in your discourse. You've even discovered global warming. That was a scoop in your government statement. I will come back to that later, but I insist that this progress be explicitly mentioned. I do not deny that this was by far the best government statement you have already shared with us, but it is far from good enough and far from green enough. You sounded very optimistic and therefore even a bit naive-optimistic, actually a bit world-weird. You only tell half of the story in your discourse. You often talk about the indicators that are on green, but much less about the indicators that are on orange or red. You speak in terms of averages and forget that there are sometimes people behind those averages who have it even more difficult, that there is sometimes a very hard reality behind those figures. You like to talk offensively about the winners of your policy, but you forget the losers. That's not how you say everything. That way, I think you're forgetting to be a prime minister for all Belgians. In this way, you forget to respond to many legitimate concerns and uncertainties in our society. Colleagues, I noticed something. The most enthusiastic applause of this majority came after the attack on the strikers. Is that a social project, is that something that's mobilizing, an attack on strikes? You are attacking those strikers, but you forget to ask yourself why they are stopping in this country today. Why are people, even people who haven't stopped, angry, worried and disappointed today? That has to do with your policy, but also with the state of the country. We've already gotten a lot of numbers. I am partly responsible for the fact that there is so much talk about figures in this House, so I will not share too much with you. I think a number of legitimate concerns have already been shared by Mr Nollet. I would like to say two things about the state of the country. Firstly, do you know that the European Commission's social report for this quarter shows that our country is one of the few countries in which the lowest quarter of income sees the difficulties of paying invoices increase? In most European countries, these difficulties are falling. According to the European Commission's report, they are rising with us. I'm happy to deliver it to you. That is another story that shows that there are also a lot of losers in your policy. Secondly, it is true that our economic growth is attracting a little bit, but you know with us that it is lower than the average in the euro area and, above all, that it is based on very fragile cyclical factors. I come, for example, to the report of the Strategic Committee on the Investment Pact. On page 8, it says literally that the growth that Michel is presenting here, which is lower than the euro area average, is mainly based on the European Central Bank's low interest rates, on the dollar rate and on low oil prices. The pluses you're presenting... (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u85	You don't say so? This is mentioned on page 8 of the Strategic Committee's report: "The observed growth is very fragile and relies on a number of cyclical factors." The proper analysis you have ordered, together with us, says that this country is not ready for the future. The pluses are often less than elsewhere and behind those pluses are still a lot of big challenges. This has also partly to do with your policy, a policy which we believe, as ecologists, looks too much at the stock market, which has too much empathy for the financial side of our economy and lacks attention to the real side of our economy. A majority, with Mr Dewael in the lead, has a lot of empathy for those who make money from the wealth they already have and much less empathy for those who are unlucky in our society. That is the debate we are having together, Mr Dewael. That is the debate on the human image and the choices of society. You are right to say that this debate is about social choices. So I do not agree with you at all if you protest and almost stop at a security tax of 0.15 % and pretend that people who have more than half a million euros in their securities account are some kind of middle class. That's bullshit and monkey. However, I agree with you that it is about choices. The choices made by this government are partly at the basis of many orange and red indicators. That was the interesting thing about Mr Dewael's intervention: he says it is a matter of choices. I agree. It has been a music for a long time to say: TINA, there is no alternative. It would be a law of nature to govern this country this way. The effect of the last three years is that you acknowledge that there are choices at the basis of the government agreement and of the budget. Mr Van Overtveldt is a bit surprised by what I am saying. We've always said it. Among other things Bart De Wever said at the beginning of this government: TINA, there is no alternative, it can't be otherwise, it's a kind of mathematics or physics. In the meantime, we've been fighting that mantra for three years. For three years we have been fighting it, and we are making it hard. Unfortunately, I do not have time to explain all our proposals. The temptation is very great to bring forward all our legislative proposals and our entire programme here, but I cannot. However, I tell you, Prime Minister, it could be different, especially in this country, where we are still missing EUR 10 billion from tax fraud today. Then here's what I'm wondering. Patrick Dewael's Open Vld wants to send private investigators behind people in trouble, the fight against social fraud. When will this government, this Open Vld, seriously tackle tax fraud? If you did such things, you'd be much more of a prime minister for all countrymen. Then your support would be much greater, much greater, even to the south of the language border. Because sometimes the problem is indeed different. It is by working together in a group like ours that I, as a Flemish politician, know that as well. Mrs Demir, that is not impeccable. I am telling you that working together across the language line teaches things. I've already learned things because of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u86	Mr Calvo, you spoke just now about the fight against tax fraud. I also know that amount of 10 billion, which is a very relative concept. I'd like to give you a few figures for 2016. With regard to the fight against tax fraud, we have dealt with 2 500 dossiers, the highest figure since 2001. We have imposed sanctions of EUR 1.7 billion, the highest figure since 2001. We have effectively collected 255 million, and that too is a record amount.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u87	The Prime Minister said that a moment ago. For us, however, the bar is higher. I'm very sorry. You say you're doing better than the previous government and that you're doing well. I tell you that we are still missing EUR 10 billion because of the tax fraud. Go after it with just as much determination as you sometimes hunt for benefit-holders. Secondly, and that was one of the positive points, you have finally talked about the climate without just talking about the business environment. Mr Prime Minister, you have, in particular, made the analysis, listed the problems. That is of course important, but it is looking for real solutions in your discourse. I agree with what Mr Nollet has just said. Please give that a central place in your reply later. Tell us what you will do to tackle the problems you are raising, such as premature deaths from fine dust and our ridiculously low share of renewable energy. Prime Minister, I would like to hear from you what we are going to do about this. Ladies and gentlemen, please do not get rid of what is in the newspaper today. After all, in a Flemish quality newspaper today we discover that this majority will conduct a survey in 2017 to ask whether or not we should step out of nuclear energy. Post-Fukushima, while the Chernobyl disaster occurred in 1986 I was not yet born with a breakthrough of renewable energy all over the world, and with a nuclear exit that was decided in 2003. Mr Van Rompuy and Mr Dewael were there at the time, but many of the members were not there at the time. What does the government say about a core exit that was decided in 2003? That she wants to launch a survey in 2017. That is what Mr Nollet said just now: the energy pact that is currently before us is an analysis, but not an action plan. You have made the state of the climate here today and yesterday, but you have not yet come up with any action. In this respect, in order to remain up-to-date, the government does less than the minimum service. In terms of climate, you do less than the minimum service. It is good that you are doing the analysis on the climate, but without action, that discourse is actually more of a will than a declaration of government. It takes note of the climate problems without doing enough. Prime Minister, if you did more, you would be much more the prime minister of the future. I read that you've been biologisted by the comparison with Dehaene. I understand that somewhere, but you are now Prime Minister after Al Gore's movie, after discovering global warming, and I miss that in your policy. Very clearly, we often want to be an ally and we want to make very persistent proposals, but there are a lot of things that can be done differently. The last part of my speech is about the state of our society. I've heard a number of things about that. I am pleased that you have paid a great deal of attention to this. I have also heard a number of things in Mr Dewael's speech, which I very much appreciated. I have even heard Mr De Roover argue for openness, not to fold back on ourselves. That's surprising from a nationalist mouth. You quoted the founders of Europe, Prime Minister. You quoted Helmut Kohl and François Mitterrand. In your speech, you argued for openness and cooperation. You have embraced our rights and freedoms. You even praised our social security, including the index. And you claim a place in the cockpit of Europe. The problem, ladies and gentlemen, is that our Prime Minister is not in the cockpit of Europe today and too often on the luggage carrier of the N-VA. Not in the cockpit of Europe, not in the photo with Macron and Merkel. And the N-VA, who flirts with May, Johnson and the British Conservatives, sometimes even resembles Viktor Orbán. Prime Minister, it is my conviction that nationalists have been allowed too much influence in this country over the last three years. They have also been able to determine too much our position in Europe. Nationalists who want to work less together and split more. The N-VA that puts the rights and freedoms you spoke of so offensively and positively on the run-down in this country. That is our country's problem, but it is also your problem. We shall be very clear about this. I know that this makes the N-VA nervous and I know that you do not like to hear this analysis, but, believe me, I would much prefer you to live up to what you have said about Europe and our rights and freedoms on a daily basis. However, that is not the case with the N-VA in the government. That is the problem, of you, of our country and of this government.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u88	Mr Calvo, it is not for me to explicitly defend coalition partners, but I am, of course, a member of this majority. You are actually saying that nationalists, and therefore this government, are touching rights and freedoms. That is quite an important point for me. Can you specify that? Are you saying that we have supported Spanish nationalism too much? That we have shown too much understanding for people who wanted to go to a polling station? What exactly did you mean when you said that this government is attacking rights and freedoms?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u89	Of course I feel addressed, Mr Calvo. Would you please be consistent? In Mechelen you control with the N-VA. Aren't you ashamed to take a swing at that party like this? Shame on you!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u90	Fortunately, I have a mayor who doesn't like the N-VA as much as Charles Michel. That's the difference between the federal level and Mechelen. What's it about for me? Prominent Christian Democrats say it together with us, in particular that the N-VA has ruined the atmosphere in this country over the last three years. That party brought up a burkini ban when the budget fell into a mess. She attacked freedom of speech. She turned people against each other. Her secretary of state condemned young people solely on the basis of their first name. Those are the points I'm making. You quote former President Mitterrand, who said that nationalism is war. Mitterrand was also the man who said that the European identity is human rights. Now I wonder, Prime Minister, would Kohl and Mitterrand Saudi Arabia have voted in the United Nations Women's Council? Would Kohl and Mitterrand have brought Sudanese secret agents to Brussels? I don't think so. I would really like you to place human rights at the heart of foreign policy, as in the case of purple-green, inspired by one of your namesakes. You know the people who drew from it. People from your political family. Real liberals, such as Karel De Gucht, who have spoken about Sudan. I'd like that wind to rule this country. I would like there to be no brake on our attitude in Europe, on our attitude to human rights. Today, that is the case. Today there are people who think that we should actually be jealous of the Catalans. Geert Bourgeois said that we should be jealous of the Catalans. Prime Minister, my grandparents left Catalonia in 1960. I can tell you that they have not regretted this for a second, because they have noticed that a future can be built in this country. This is a country, with all its imperfections, to be proud of. It is a country that is asking us, politicians, to cooperate very much. A model that forces us to do so is for us, unlike the N-VA, a model to cherish. A country and the nationalists are in love with it, in which different languages and cultures can live together peacefully. When I look at the past few days, I'm proud and I don't take it that people who don't really like this country claim a place in the cockpit. Colleagues of the N-VA, we will continue to emphasise this. Even though the polls irritate you and make you nervous, we will continue to say so. Mr. Prime Minister, I'm finishing up. This country is also a country in which the people you referred to yourself have shown themselves to be very resilient and united after the terrible attacks. Prime Minister, that is the basis of our criticism. We ecologists do believe in this country. We believe that much more is possible in this country. We, ecologists, show every day that working together works. That's why I'm learning every day. We do not want to turn back on ourselves. We do not want nationalists at the helm. We do politics for everyone. Mr Dewael, I am very sorry, but we do have empathy for the single mother, who is struggling in the labour market. We ecologists do care about the climate. Prime Minister, all this is why we do have confidence in this country, but do not give confidence to the government of that country.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u91	Prime Minister, you told us yesterday: "Results; no slogans!" What in itself was already a slogan. You tried to make us believe that your government was doing more and better than everyone else. The gap between your words and reality is significant. This is not the first time and I will illustrate it in different parts. First, in economic and employment terms, are jobs created? Of course! That would no longer be lacking in view of the positive situation we are experiencing. But you are doing less well than the neighbouring countries of the euro area. One cannot deny that the abyss is immense if one considers the situation of those seeking employment. In spite of good training and important qualifications, young people emerge from higher education to find a job, sudden relocations are increasing - the Caterpillar case has been widely recognized as productive and skilled. I would like to recall the harsh words of this Liberal minister who called the unemployed an annuitants. It's terribly derogatory. You say that, for the first time, the employment rate shows a slight upward inflection. That is right, but I would like to reiterate your commitment to the government agreement, whereby you claimed to target an employment rate of 73.2% in 2020. This is, of course, part of the European 2020 strategy. We are far from it, while the economic context is rather favourable. You also told us yesterday, Prime Minister, that the cost of unemployment had fallen by EUR 1.5 billion. Is it through job creation? Yes, but when you say that, you don't say everything. Two other aspects need to be taken into account. First, the CPAS budget has been increased, as you pointed out earlier – but this is not only reflected in the commitment of staff – to raise social integration income and respond to the exclusions of unemployment. This partly offsets the EUR 1.5 billion decrease. However, there is another, even more challenging one: it is obviously the increase in the health and disability insurance budget, because more people have switched to it. Basically, this represents an increase of EUR 1 billion. In other words, your reduction in the cost of unemployment of around €1.5 billion is the result of the exclusions from unemployment and the shift to sickness and disability insurance. For these reasons, we must, of course, add the creation of jobs – but it intervenes for a congruous portion. In any case, it seemed useful to me to explain this amount that you insisted on, because it is necessary to be able to say everything. Our country continues to hold the sad record of labour taxation. One of the flagship measures of this summer's famous "Tomorrowland Akkoord" was a reform of ISOC. Of course, we will see what will happen through the measures you will take to that end. You said you wanted to focus on SMEs. We have always argued – and I have tabled a text to this effect with my colleague Benoît Dispa – for a change in the ISOC rate, in order to bring it back to the European average, as well as for the removal of tax niches that now strongly favour multinationals to the detriment of SMEs. Unfortunately, yesterday we did not obtain figures on the large budgetary masses. You will reply that it will come later, at the time of the budgetary debate. Yes and no! I can't imagine that, even if you were going to go to the Tomorrowland festival quickly to do a few selfies, you've messed up your work. When we announce a reform of ISOC, we present the large budgetary masses that will be mobilised for this purpose. You have announced budgetary neutrality. All right! That being said, I can only suggest that you do not duplicate the budget game that we had seen for the tax shift, which you said it was funded. However, it will obviously cost several billion dollars a year under the cruise regime. Prime Minister, we cannot fail to do a duty of clarity if we compare the figures of employment trends in Belgium with those of the other countries of the euro area and the European Union. We are in the same category as Greece, Italy and, broadly speaking, France. These are Eurostat figures, I have taken exactly the curves of Eurostat and have all their graphs with me. These are neutral, independent figures, not curves and figures that I would have calculated. The duty of clarity seems indispensable to me in politics. It therefore seems to me logical that, on the part of the government or the parliament – since we can ask for it – we can have a serious analysis of the reasons why, despite the positive situation, we do not do more and better, like the majority of other European countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u92	I will not comment on Eurostat's rates. Having said that, I would like to take a few seconds to address this important point. You seem to say, if I understand your reasoning correctly, that the rate of growth is going up again in us, which is a good thing, but is still lower than that of the other countries of the European Union. But we need to look at two things, if we want to be intellectually honest. The starting point: what is our level of GDP production compared to other countries? There, we are very well classified. And, on the other hand, the rate of growth. If I followed your reasoning to the point of absurdity, which I will not do, by comparing our situation with that of underdeveloped countries in Africa, for example, unfortunately, we would see a very high rate of growth, much more than in our country. This does not mean, however, that wealth production allows redistribution and gives a positive dynamic to the country as a whole. I ask you, when quoting Eurostat figures, to take into account the two dimensions: the rate of growth, but also the level of GDP which remains very high. Why? Because we have resisted the crisis, better than others, thanks to our social stabilizers, thanks to solid social security. And that is why we are mobilized to create more jobs, which is the best guarantee of making our social security solid in the future, tomorrow and the day after tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u93	Prime Minister, I was talking about job creation. I am a little far away, I agree with you, but here I have all the graphs of Eurostat, on the age range of 20-64, 55-65 and, even more interesting, by gender. In this respect, and we have not yet talked about it since yesterday, we can see that among women, we are much less good at the development of employment. These elements are also highlighted by economists. Not to accept that, in a positive situation, we can do more than other European countries, I cannot follow you on that. We have created jobs and every job created is positive, but at the same time we need to identify our strengths and weaknesses. We obviously have weaknesses. Why would the Federal Office of the Plan not be able to carry out this study? It will then be necessary to transpose this study into a series of measures and the Central Economic Council will surely be able to carry it out. Parliament itself could request the Federal Planning Office on the matter. I will propose it, but I would have thought it would have been interesting if it could also be put forward by the government. This would make it possible, in a positive and proactive way, to try to go beyond the positions negotiated in this summer's agreement. Let us acknowledge that we certainly have weaknesses, particularly in terms of the competitiveness of our economy, in terms of energy costs. We could also work on social contributions on low wages in an extremely privileged way. On these points, we must dare to be lucid and diagnosed. Prime Minister, in terms of the budget, there is also a time lag which is not negligible. You're saying the debt's falling. Some weak clarifications can be observed in terms of public finances but, in reality, if the ECB's monetary policy interest bonus is taken away from the budget, the consolidation is not there! The improvement of the balance can be fully attributed to the interest bonus, the budgetary bounty par excellence! Worse, this bounty is transposed into a structural measure. The impact and consequences of rising interest rates will be seen: higher structural measures and interest charges will have to be paid. Boomerang may come back very quickly! There is still a safety gap. You have produced many pieces of legislation, but it must be remembered, even out of respect for the teams on the ground, that you have made significant savings in the first years of your legislature, and that the police, intelligence and justice services are on their knees. You will rightly tell me that new envelopes have been created since then. Of course, but these are only used to make up for your savings. With regard to the famous annual envelope of 400 million euros which you regularly invoke, I would like to recall what the Court of Auditors has calculated. The Prime Minister has calculated that for 2016, of the famous 400 million registered as a provision in the fight against terrorism and radicalism, a 52 per cent envelope was used as a commitment and 43 per cent in liquidation. So we see the gap with the teams in the field. Yet they will not be laws that will fight terrorism in the most effective way. They won't be enough. First and foremost, we need people on the ground, who invest on a daily basis. All the examples I have just cited show a significant lag.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u94	Mrs Fonck, we are not going to go into the details of the figures, especially since I do not have them in front of me. However, we have already had this discussion. You want to convey the message that we do not respect the statements we have made. We would have announced a provision of EUR 400 million while we would spend much less than that. Do you know that this is 400 million euros recurrent?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u95	For staff, it's happy!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u96	These 400 million are registered annually. Within this envelope, one part is recurring and the other is an investment. In total, we are well beyond the 400 million and you know that. I just wanted to share this information with others, since I've already shared it with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u97	Minister, thank you for that clarification. About the $400 million, when we delay commitments during the year, we don't necessarily spend everything. Moreover, if you look at the evolution of the justice or security budgets in recent years, what we will do in the budget work, you will see that there is no photo.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u98	Mr President, I would like to make a brief statement. We have already had this discussion and I would like these figures to be clarified. I am not just talking about the amounts because, as you know, some of them have not been allocated to the fight against terrorism, but they have made it possible to clear certain bills, particularly in the area of justice. This was the case in the first year. It was very clear and obvious and I would like clarity on all the figures in order to know what was attributed to the fight against terrorism and what might have made it possible to pay certain bills and arrears for justice or for another department.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u99	Mr Dallemagne, may I remind you of the rule: the speaker is being questioned. If you start a debate in the same group, it becomes complicated. If, moreover, every time you agree, you confirm it, it will take time. I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u100	Mr Dallemagne, indeed, we have already had this discussion and I have replied that the Terro provision is fed, every year, 400 million euros. I'll do an incise when I answer Mrs. Fonck. There was indeed a lag in the first year because, with regard to public money, we had to make tenders for investments. In addition, the engagement of police officers is not without delay, there has been a lag that corresponds to a slippage. It was not a question of refusing to pay the amounts due. When we add up the investment figures and the recurring amounts, we will reach almost double that $400 million. The Terro supply and its use are under very careful control. That is how some members of the government blame me for being too careful, which is why it takes a little longer than expected. We can't have everything in life. I confirm to you that the use of the Terro provision is subject to prior scrutiny by the Finance Inspectorate on the correctness of the budget and on the relationship between the Terro view of the fight against terrorism and radicalism and provision. This point was also noted positively by the Court of Auditors in its evaluations.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u101	The Court of Auditors has indeed validated the 50 %, as I have just explained. On the other hand, the minister, we can examine in every sense this problem of the $400 million envelope, the reality on the ground and on the figures for the past three years shows that these services are on their knees and that they have suffered from a delay in commitments. Let me not be told that everything goes well in the areas of justice, police and intelligence and that, in terms of human resources, they are in a comfortable situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u102	That reality, you have to agree to hear it. I can't imagine you don't have any contacts in the field. This reality is crucial in the fight against terrorism and for security in a more comprehensive manner. These examples, Prime Minister, showed a mismatch between your words, your speech yesterday and the reality on the ground. I now turn to the social security aspect. You know that because of our DNA, we at the CDH are deeply committed to this great collective project of social security. We are ready to call for efforts to ensure its sustainability. On the other hand, what your government seems to be ignoring is that these efforts can only be accepted if they are distributed fairly. Pension and health records are the best illustration of this because a wide range of measures have been taken, including harsh measures. But the measures that can truly lead to a positive reform of the pension file are still missing, to the point that your reform is unbalanced and, in addition, ineffective. I was talking to you a moment ago about the explosion in the number of people with disability. On the other hand, people who are at the end of their careers are becoming more and more sick and disabled. For us, the first priority in pensions is obviously to increase the employment rate but above all to invest in bringing the average age of retirement closer to the legal age. It's not enough to say it. We have to act. Who can believe here that a professional career can be made at the same rate as it is until age 65? No one! I believe that a majority of people may agree to go to the pension at an age close to the legal age, provided that qualitative and quantitative end-of-career adjustments are put in place. I've been wearing this building for a long time. This is a great absence from your government. We will continue to plead him loud and clear. Without this and without a fair approach to taking into account difficult jobs, this pension reform will not be effective. Pension reform must be able to be carried out in a positive way, relying on the ability of workers to remain active longer, while at the same time adopting a sustainable pace. As far as health is concerned, too, the efforts imposed on patients, on all health professionals, are a major burden. I repeat, Prime Minister, what you told us yesterday. You told us that in 2014, health spending was $22 billion. In 2018, authorized spending will be $25 billion, an increase of $3 billion. That's probably true, I believe you. At the same time, your commitment to this government was to ensure a defined structural investment of 1.5% increase in the growth standard since the beginning of this legislature, which you clearly did not do. When you say that this will increase between 2014 and 2018, you forget to say that if you had fulfilled this very clear commitment - evidently in the face of the ageing population, the technological challenges in health and a whole series of inescapable expenditures - at the end of this legislature, the loss would amount to $5 billion compared to the government agreement. I am counting on structural measures and not on a budget that has been lost every year. In this sector, there have been significant effects on patients and care staff. We had this discussion about psychologists. The minister said there was no problem with children. Here I will tell you about the reality of all the hospitals concerned, particularly the psychiatric services for children. You took, Madam Minister of Health, a royal decree last June. It halves, in the space of two years, the funding of the delicate staff (pedopsychiatric care) day in general hospital and even at the level of the standards of supervision. In other words, Madam Minister, since I am obliged to take stock of the i in relation to your intervention earlier, when we have funding for the supervision of twenty children hospitalized in psychiatry, the supervision of sixteen FTEs increases to eight FTEs over two years. Don't tell me that this will have no impact on multidisciplinary care and the care of children and adolescents! And that is what the Federal Council of Hospital Institutions has just recognized. His report, which he has just addressed to you, expresses that the situation cannot remain as it is and that this royal decree, which you have made at the end of June, must be amended. I saw colleagues from the majority parties react in the same way yesterday via Belga. I have repeated it several times since June, but it must be noted that there is finally a surge in the majority. Thus, with regard to psychiatric care for children and adolescents, this unsustainable system will be corrected.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u103	Mrs Fonck, if you are quoting from a royal decree, you must quote everything. If you quote from a report, I also ask you to read it and not to interpret it. I am not talking about the other psychiatric hospitals, because that is where the standard is already set at 13. In a second and third phase, the norm that exists, that occupation, can drop to 8. We asked the National Council for Hospital Services for advice on this. That advice is there and it says: you are right to impose a uniform standard of 13, but you cannot lower it. However, it is absolutely not true that the RB should be revoked. Then you really haven't read it properly. You're saying something that doesn't make sense. Moreover, the envelope provided for in this budget remains the same. Only we have lifted the moratorium on this, and I do not hear you say anything about it, so that children's places can be raised in Flanders and Wallonia, but not in Brussels, because they are already above the number. We have done this to provide places for children in need of psychiatric care. I do not hear you say anything about that, and that is important. Those who now have 21 staff per 20 children will fail, but those who now have 10 or 12 will be able to use more. For me, it is important that care for children in day hospitals is of the same quality from north to south, from west to east. That's the point. We wanted to make uniform funding. A cat couldn't find her boy in the crunch of funding. That wasn't serious either. Some hospitals were historically disadvantaged and others were well above the norm. We have uniform funding. The report says that this is a good thing. So it's going to stay there.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u104	Minister, you're trying to make us believe that you took a royal order in June, and that you knew all this was going to happen. You took a royal order in June, and you didn't bother to look at the impact on the ground. You have decided on this royal decree only through the budgetary lorgnette. If you had worked seriously, you would have actually anticipated the problem of the hospitals concerned by the K beds. Not all of them are, but in the face of the rise of shields, including from parties of the majority, you have finally asked for an opinion from the Federal Council of Hospital Institutions, which has very clearly advised you not to change the measure for those who are not concerned but to review your copy for the hospitals affected by this measure. I hope that in the area of mental health, the government will not follow your path solely motivated by budgetary choices. Mr Prime Minister, when you spoke yesterday about durable solutions for INAMI numbers, you slapped our young Belgians, who are blocked, even though INAMI numbers are given to all European doctors and dentists, regardless of the quality of their training and the internships carried out! Forty per cent of the INAMI francophone numbers are granted to Europeans. The shortage in some specializations and in some regions leads to a call for air to Europe. Recruitment channels are even organised by clubs to attract European doctors and dentists and to see them set up in Belgium. Our young Belgians are victims of real discrimination back and forth! That's not to say they live it badly, very bad. The Council of State itself criticizes the failure to take account of needs in the different regions, even though they had been objectively assessed by the Planning Commission and the Minister wished to comply with them. Talking about evidence-based, then refusing to follow the Planning Commission and, worse, deciding to bypass it in the future – that's what you decided a few months ago – is choosing evidence-based only when it suits you. It is a major public health issue to ensure not only the needs but also the quality of our care of tomorrow. Prime Minister, I can only encourage you to look at this issue rationally and objectively. We need to get out of dogmatic positions and dare an approach of truth on this issue. We can no longer accept that these European doctors and dentists can all come to settle down and get an INAMI number when our young Belgians are blocked and the shortage is rife in certain regions and in certain specializations. This is no longer acceptable! Access to justice is also increasingly restricted: VAT, registry fees, contributions to the State, legal aid. When the government claims that the backlog is reduced, it is because the new files can no longer enter. It is indecent to take advantage of this reduction in the backlog in these circumstances. It is true that you have announced that the legal protection insurance will correct these measures. It's putting the plow before the ox. I'm curious to see what Assuralia will say. In the area of justice, I would also like to address the bill for the victims of the attacks. Difficult debates have already taken place in parliament. My colleague Georges Dallemagne and I had tabled proposals. We were not heard at that time by the government. I welcome the fact that you acknowledged yesterday that you failed on this point. In the so-called Victim Status Act, there is a lack of major elements: that on the single path of compensation by the State, which then goes back to insurance; that of compensation for all damage. Before the holidays, the government made a promise to the victims that the bill would come back home. It's mid-October. Of course, the task force is working, but I urge you to come to an early conclusion as the first bill was very insufficient. The Minister of Justice is working on this, but I would like you, as Prime Minister, to commit to it as well. My colleagues rightly referred to the reverse of your Secretary of State for the Fight against Poverty. I will only come back briefly to the subject to say that she had presented herself, in her guidance note, as the lawyer of the poor. That was before. I don't know if the government is going to follow her. I hope not. But what I saw on the Dutch-language television set last week particularly challenged me. Let's not be fooled! I think it was calculated. It was meant. This is all the more deplorable. With regard to the efforts that are being made by the citizens, I was just saying how fair we should be and that these efforts should be fair. I recalled in my previous speech: what are we waiting for to put more justice into taxation? The Minister of Finance has repeatedly questioned the tax on financial transactions and the tax on securities accounts. He had serious doubts about his intentions. He did not hesitate to compromise the tax on securities accounts by publicly saying all the evil he thought of it. I fear, moreover, that she will suffer the same fate as that on speculative gains. It is not legal in nature. More shocking, it does not target the very large assets that are housed in holding companies. I am curious to know, Prime Minister, whether the Council of State highlights the fragility of the tax. Will you see her again to avoid the fate of the capital gains tax? Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you must be able to measure how hard citizens, to whom you impose harsh measures, can only be hit against those you preserve. I just remembered. Do you also measure the modesty of your actions, despite what you say, against major tax fraud and financial crime? For example, in the Panama Papers scandal, only 8 million euros were recovered. It's getting almost embarrassing. I mentioned it earlier, but I repeat it again. When Mr. De Wever says, on the VRT, that tax evasion is not a shame but a citizen duty, it sums up the government's state of mind. If this government followed Mr. De Wever, Prime Minister, if I were you, I'd be embarrassed. Prime Minister, there's everything you've been talking about, but there's also a lot of silence. Not a word about people with disabilities, even though their reality is difficult. Nothing on the plan to fly over Brussels and the Regions, even though you promised people a very rapid plan. It was announced to us three months after the beginning of this legislature. Minister Bellot spoke several times about the fact that he himself had a plan. I think it's time he did it and we could discuss it. Your silence yesterday masks the unease of this government on this issue! When we make such strong promises, when we say and say again "there's only one" on this issue – that's what I heard from your party during the 2014 election campaign – then the actions must follow! Mr. Bellot, since you have a plan, I'm interested. Everyone recognizes that this is a sensitive and difficult issue, so let's go! Put your plan on the table and we can discuss it together. That is how we can find solutions for the people who fly over and for the economy of our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u105	Mrs Fonck, you know that a number of legal actions have been taken. Judgments go one way and another.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u106	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u107	The decision of the June Council of State was in one direction and the July judgment was in another. The government decided not to appeal and to follow up on all the July decisions. In addition, we conducted an audit from October 2 to October 10, 2016. Never had a minister asked for such an audit. On the basis of the findings of the audit, on the basis of the judicial decisions and on the basis of the analysis of the file, decisions will soon fall and we will propose a series of things. The important element in this judgment is that, finally, an impact assessment must be submitted within a relatively short time, regardless of all the administrative boundaries of the regions or municipalities, in order to objectiveise noise measurements. I understand that noise measurements have already been taken in the Walloon Region and that others are taken in the Brussels Region and Flanders. In view of these results, which are being analysed, we will follow up on the requirements set out in the judgement.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u108	Minister, thank you for your answer. It is obvious that the legal arguments go in all directions, but this is not new. I've always heard you and your party argue that it was easy to come with a plan. However, while there is a common denominator for all legal proceedings, it is the conclusion that economics should not take precedence, but should also take into account and protect the health of the overlying people. You have a lever which you do not use - because noise quotas are, unfortunately, constantly exceeded - and which consists of allowing your administration, in particular the Environment Service, to monitor Belgocontrol live to ensure compliance with the PRS and noise quotas. To do this, Minister, a plan is not indispensable. You have all the necessary tools. Use it!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u109	Mr President, allow me to speak! Ms Fonck, what are the conclusions of the audit? He considered that the instructions given in the recent past were themselves the cause of several difficulties. You expect solutions from us, either. But before that, you should have understood what was going on. I have understood this, for my part, by means of instructions which have been given and which have, in a way, created such confusion in the analysis of the elements which they have produced the situation which we now know. Then I like the objective facts. As you know, I'm direct. You have seen that, in the SNCB file for example, when you have to make choices, even courageous ones, you have to make them. With regard to the overview, there are several aspects to be considered. And I appreciate the information when it's correct. The judgment followed up on requests throughout Brussels, but the courts simply indicated that the canal route, ring road and night landings on Runway 01 should be dealt with. With regard to take-offs on the Oostrand, the judge states that "it finds no particular measure of a strange or disproportionate nature". Of course, when we come up with a solution, it will cover not only those who are affected by the judgment giving effect to requests for the canal road, the ring road and, a little, the night track 01, but also, while judgment does not require it, the Oostrand, the short left turn and all the houses that are currently flying over. Our strategy is to cover not only roads that have been recognized by the judge as requiring action, but also roads for which it has not recognized that they should be taken. For when a plan is decided, it will be for the whole region and not only the Brussels Region, but also the Walloon Brabant and Flemish Brabant.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u110	The three regions are obviously concerned, Mr Bellot. I hope that we will return to this during the thematic debates, Mr President. Prime Minister, I will conclude by talking about the major projects that you have announced for some of us over the past three years. Where are they? For us, these are truly projects with meaning and future. With regard to the investment pact, I hope that it will be intelligently targeted at a few objectives. It is not just about creating jobs to create jobs, but, on the contrary, about issues such as energy, innovation, mobilization for our environment, mobility, quality of life and the well-being of citizens and future generations. We will support this investment pact. Of course, it has to move forward. I hope that the 60 billion you have announced will not be spent on the recycling of budget decisions already taken. In this regard, I would like to plead once again that the federal and the regions should break out of the small barren war and work together to advance this investment pact. My colleague Michel de Lamotte will return earlier to the energy pact. Finally, on the European side, you have not hidden your ambitions, and you are right. Together with your Dutch, Luxembourg and French colleagues, you want to relaunch the European project and that is so much better! You also claim to be at the forefront of the fight for a common European defence, based on a leading-edge industry in Europe. Again, Prime Minister, I agree with you. On the other hand, I did not fail to be questioned when, last week, your Minister of Defence rejected, on the other hand, the new offers that Mr. Macron had submitted for the replacement of our F-16s. You told the government about it. Since then, we haven't heard anything. That being said, France, and in particular Mr Macron, is proposing a project structuring around the Rafale, based on very extensive operational and industrial cooperation between our two countries. This would make a decisive contribution to the defence of Europe and the development of advanced technologies in Europe. On this point, Prime Minister, you have no choice but to start over the whole procedure. We are not just buying a plane, but in doing so we need to build a strategic and industrial partnership. You often say that you must be in the European cockpit. In this aviation issue, Europe must first be chosen. I'll close in a minute, Mr. President. Prime Minister, your speech and your government's action, as well as the repeated expression of some of your government's ministers, do not come together. On several occasions, you have relied on the opposition rather than on the rally. On several occasions, some members of your government have played the provocation rather than betting on dialogue, and I am concerned about that. Indeed, I believe that this is likely to reinforce the mistrust of the citizen. I am convinced that our democracy must be renewed, and that it must generate more support and confidence. This requires the adoption of exemplary behaviour on the part of political figures, a more equitable policy, a fairer distribution of efforts and greater citizen participation in important decisions. My group will therefore not be able to give you its confidence, even if we intend to respond positively to all the invitations to transcend divisions. For us as for Jean Monnet, the most beautiful profession of man is to unite men.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u111	Colleagues, Mr De Roover has just started his speech by saying that only a lawyer with a bad file needs a lot of words. In the meantime, he's been walking. I thank him for the explanation. Now I understand why the Prime Minister's policy statement yesterday was at least one third longer than last year's. The government focuses on the socio-economic report. Indeed, throughout Europe we see the economy attracting. Nevertheless, the report is not very good in the socio-economic field. The savings are melting, pensions remain among the lowest in Europe and we need to work longer than ever. Belgian reforms are shifts within the problem. This is where the socio-economic problems are managed instead of solving them. Belgium is declining in terms of competitiveness. These are not my words, but those of economist Gert Peersman, who compared Belgian achievements with those of other European countries. He's not the only one. If we include the recent figures of the World Economic Forum, figures of September last year, it appears that Belgium has already lost three places in terms of competitiveness. Of course, competitiveness will not improve with the measures you are proposing, especially if we see that our neighbouring countries are making use of the economic situation to introduce thorough measures. There is still no question of fair, simplified and transparent taxation. The tax burden on ordinary Fleming remains extremely high. The tax return, which had no less than 885 codes this year, remains particularly complex. To say it with the words of economist Ivan Van de Cloot: You maintain a fiscal system that seems to be invented by Marquis de Sade. Much has also been said about the securities tax, a sham measure, such as the failed speculative tax, of which you cannot tell how much it will bring. After Tita Tommelein we now have Hocus Pocus Van Overtveldt, who can calculate without numbers. You did not mention that it is yet another anti-Flemish tax, another transfer tax which will be paid mainly by the Flemings and which, contrary to what you claim, will not affect the super rich either. After all, the super rich have placed their movable assets in all kinds of patrimony companies and in holding companies, thus avoiding the securities tax. It was the last chance for this government with this policy statement and with the Summer Agreement to put the budget in order. You chose a budget with a lot of air, with a lot of pumping, to make the bill work. The government's budgetary route is very lean. Your reforms were largely bought on the brink and at best this government will reduce the budget deficit from 3% to 1% at the end of the legislature. That is, of course, miles away from the promised budgetary balance in 2018. Ladies and gentlemen, do you remember that the budgetary balance, putting the budget in order, was the condition, was the reason for N-VA to freeze the Community completely? None of it came into the house. By postponing the budgetary balance over and over again, this towering public debt has now come to EUR 25 billion, which puts us at EUR 40 000 per inhabitant in this country, our future is hanging by a thread. That's the sword of Damocles for our children and grandchildren. Ladies and gentlemen, the gap between rhetoric and reality is growing. How much punishment were the N-VA statements for the cameras initially about the ARCO file? Tax money wasn't allowed to be used for that. Movement.net, and no one else, had to compensate her cheated savers. We believe that this should still be done today, but today the N-VA agrees not only to pay taxpayers' money, but also to pump EUR 400 million in taxpayers' money into that ARCO deal via state bank Belfius. Apparently, everyone has to pay for the ACV scam. The gap between rhetoric and reality is getting bigger and bigger. Mr Verherstraeten has just referred to the mystery calls. How tough were the N-VA statements on the mystery calls? Literally: We're not gonna start a witch hunt, are we? I then expressed the hope that it was not an empty talk from the N-VA to appease the supporters and that if the N-VA really wanted to stop those tests not only with words but also with deeds. Unfortunately for the umpteenth time it appears that there can be a lot of power of change in a short time: the mysterycalls are now simply introduced. With its approval of the Summer Agreement, the Social Inspectorate may conduct anonymous tests to determine whether companies are guilty of discrimination. The gap between rhetoric and reality is getting bigger and bigger. Yesterday, I heard the Prime Minister say in his policy statement that security must be central. In practice, however, there is a purely savings policy in the area of justice. Bart De Wever said in 2014: "You can only see that our criminal execution policy is not working right now. It's become a penalty discharge policy. All penalties under seven months effectively convert into 30 days anklet, that's not punishment. That can't be the intention. He was absolutely right, but in the meantime the government is continuing that policy of impunity, that policy of discharge. Savings prime on security. Depopulation prisons has become a fetish of our Minister of Justice. He depopulates them by not even punishing small crimes, by turning those ridiculous ankle straps into the rule and by introducing insane measures like a week-to-week detention where criminals sentenced to three to ten years imprisonment are allowed to alternate a week in prison with a week at home without any control. Pure madness. In its policy statement, the Prime Minister also confirmed that the government is implementing EU migration policy well. He was very proud of that, too. It is a migration policy that costs taxpayers billions, and in the meantime he is still looking for several millions of savings in social security. It is a migration policy where the influx is totally disproportionate to the outflow, a policy where the number of applications for family reunification by asylum seekers increased by 75% last year. It is a policy in which, last year, no less than 41 459 foreigners received a Belgian identity card. This is an increase of as much as 58% compared to the year before. It has been the highest number since 2002, since 15 years. In addition, the expulsion policy completely fails. There are more illegals being arrested, there are also many more because of the flood of asylum in recent years, but relatively fewer illegals are being locked up for expulsion than previously under Secretary of State De Block. The vast majority still only gets an order to leave the territory, so in practice they just walk around. Finally, as regards Catalonia, the Prime Minister referred to the Spanish Constitutional Court. He apparently attaches great importance to the Spanish constitution, while in his own country he tolerates the unconstitutional Fédération Wallonie-Bruxelles with all his love. The government is so keen to play a leading role in the European Union, but it could really be a pioneer if it acknowledged the legitimacy of the referendum in Catalonia, if it encouraged its Spanish colleagues to negotiate real negotiations on the division of property there. Prime Minister, you could make a difference in the European Union by not being the first Member State to hold on to a status quo. That doesn't, by the way, create stability. You could write history by being the only one in the European Union to be a little mature with states that are changing and giving recognition to Catalans. None of that's gonna happen. There has already been reference today to Mr Bourgeois' statement last week that he is jealous of the Catalans. I am rather jealous of a prime minister like the Catalans. Puigdemont really leads his people towards independence. He goes forward with cautious, but irreversible steps, something we in Flanders unfortunately cannot say. In one of his first speeches as Prime Minister, he made it clear that he was the man who wanted to give the referendum to the Catalans and walk that path for the Catalans. He literally said that that path is not for cowards, fearheads or for those who suffer from trembling knees. He is right and it is particularly regrettable to note that our Flemish leaders do belong to those categories, that they do not even dare to speak in their own country. Of course, there is no mention of the Community in the policy statement. I didn't expect it either. There's not even one sentence in it, as in 2015. That was the last time there was a sentence in the policy statement. At that time, you stated in a threatening tone that the federal loyalty had to be honored. However, today and for many years now, the N-VA has applied this Community omerta with such an astonishing ease that even a reminder of it is no longer necessary in your policy statement. Colleagues, when you need to enter a new password on your computer, you need to type in the Michel administration. The computer will report that the password used is weak and unreliable. In that case, the technique is absolutely right. Our group, the Flemish Interest, wants, as always, to be able to look in the mirror. We are consistent. We cannot and will not give the government the confidence.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u112	Mr President, Prime Minister, we listened carefully to your statement yesterday. We have found accents that deserve to be emphasized. I would also like to start my speech with your preamble on your vision of the future of Europe, which is a little brief but has no lack of interest in certain aspects. I have no doubt about your willingness to include you, for example, in the line of the President of the French Republic, Emmanuel Macron, who is trying to give a new breath to European construction. I trust that you will give tangible signs of your commitment to the European vision of the French President and in particular – I agree with some of the speakers – your vision of Europe's desire to develop a European defence pillar project within NATO and, therefore, a European military industrial capability that is one of the most powerful levers of economic growth. This is demonstrated by the results achieved by the United States in developing the arms sector. I know that these remarks will shock some who do not like that Europe is more armed. For my part, I am among those who believe that we must have the courage, in the international context we know, to have a strong and voluntary Europe in terms of armaments, not as an aggressor but in order to have the capacity for European defence and intervention in certain international conflicts. That is where I join other speakers. You cannot defend this vision if you reject the French government's offer of partnership for the F-16 replacement project with a back-end. We read in the press that a deputy prime minister, in a small ministerial committee, had called the Minister of Defence to order and that there was a willingness to debate the French offer. I ask you that the government come to Parliament with a comparison, if possible drawn up by independent experts, between the advantages and disadvantages of the French supply and the possible continuation of the market procedure launched for the replacement of the F-16s. It is necessary to have an evaluation not only of the performance of each of the proposed materials, but also of the political advantages of being part of one or the other choice. This is also part of the evaluation that needs to be done. I hope you will make this commitment, Prime Minister. I know there's a deal going on, but you know we never have to award a deal. Of course, the refusal to award must be justified. I know that all this is legally sensitive, but you will certainly not be able to avoid an open, public debate before the Parliamentary Assembly in order to make such an essential choice in the European spirit that you raised in your introduction. In your presentation, you also highlighted Belgium's economic performance. Some said that the comparison with the rest of Europe was not satisfactory. I heard you say in a reply: "Yes, but we need to know how far we go and with which countries the comparison is made within the European Union." I take the numbers back because I like to be precise. In the second quarter of this year, Belgium recorded an increase in GDP of 0.4% compared to the previous quarter. This growth is below the European average, since the latter is up by 0.6%, both in the euro area, which is the most relevant to us – certainly the most significant comparison – and in the rest of the European Union. If we observe the evolution over a year, so from the second quarter of 2016 to the second quarter of 2017, our performance is even poorer. Growth is 1.4% for Belgium, while it was 2.2% in the euro area – I am very specific – and 2.3% in the Union of Twenty-eight. The Institute of National Accounts and the Bureau of the Plan confirm that we should stay below the European average in 2017 and 2018. I have the data and the references if you want them. In terms of employment growth, the growth rate in Belgium in the second quarter of 2017 compared to the second quarter of 2016, i.e. over one year, was again below the European average: 1.1% for Belgium compared with 1.5% for the 28 members of the European Union and 1.6% for the euro area. Comparing the second quarter of 2017 with the previous quarter, the gap is widening: 0.2% for Belgium compared with 0.4% for the European Union and the euro area. We see, therefore, that European indicators do not place us in the lead of the countries of the European Union – which was one of your ambitions. If employment growth is taken into account in the employability age category (persons between the ages of 20 and 64), the employment rate has increased by 0.8 percentage points in three years, but we are only 23rd out of 30 countries in the European Union. We are not in the lead for this age group, the most affected by job growth. These are not the only indicators that are not favourable. If one takes that of the economic situation, that of the National Bank has just fallen back in September; it reflects the confidence of the entrepreneurs. As for the consumer confidence indicator, if it progresses slightly, when compared to that of our neighbours using a European Eurostat indicator, we find that overall confidence is not really on the table. Indeed, European comparisons are interesting. A European indicator is an aggregate of different indicators, a synthesis of five confidence indicators with different weights which take into account the confidence of industry, services, consumers, the construction and retail sectors. In August 2017, this indicator was 104.8 for Belgium, compared with 113 for the euro area and the European Union. Only the Greeks are colder than us. That is to say, you cannot convince citizens of a climate of trust! I could give you the details of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u113	Mr Maingain, the Minister of Finance wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u114	Mr Maingain, I would like to explain something about growth and comparison on the basis of this factor. You certainly know that when it is said that a country has a growth of 2%, for example, several elements are taken into account: consumption, investment and, above all, public expenditure. The government inherited a budget deficit of almost 3%. We have therefore been forced to spare money to comply with European rules. When comparing the contribution of public expenditure to economic growth in the euro area for 2016, the average is 0.4%. For Belgium, it is -0,1 %. When we apply the correction of economic growth in 2016 for this element which was inevitable in view of the state of public finances, we are in a situation of growth which is the same, or even slightly above the average.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u115	I expected this explanation, but it is not in the long run and it is not worth comparing over time because, whether you like it or not, Minister of Finance, before the government is installed, if I remember correctly, we went below the European average in the last quarter of 2015 in terms of economic growth. So Belgium, which had already made budgetary efforts to reduce its debt – we could discuss whether it was the right methods – had, under the previous government, a growth rate above the European average until the last quarter of 2015. We have plunged below the European average by the government measures you have taken. And I'll tell you why! That was your paradigm. You considered that support for purchasing power was the enemy of economic growth, while in the other European states there was a more rapid willingness to support economic growth through the revival of household purchasing power and investment. I am not saying that you have made every effort to do so, but you have not done so on the same scale as the other neighbouring states, particularly Germany, where there is a revalorisation of the wage minima, and the Netherlands, where there has been a stronger growth of purchasing power. It is so true that a European institute considered that last year we had the lowest growth in the purchasing power of citizens in Europe, apart from Greece. The economic choice you made was not the right one.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u116	Mr Maingain, Mr Bogaert wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u117	Mr Maingain, I am interested in your speech. You give the examples of the Netherlands and Germany at some point, but if you look at those countries, you would say the opposite of what you have just said. Perhaps we are even a little late with our recovery policy, perhaps there are some reforms that we should have put in place three, four or five years ago, so that our public finances would now be completely balanced and we could indeed give something to the people. I would very much like to be in the situation of the Netherlands and Germany, which is actually close to money, unlike in Belgium, but that is not an argument to stop the reforms and to clean up public finances. The argument is exactly the opposite. These two countries show us that, thanks to structural reforms and the timely settlement of public finances, a better economic situation is being achieved.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u118	First of all, I never said that some reforms should not be made. For example, on wage indexation – and I may differ from other parties in this regard – what had I suggested? In the election campaign, some parties said they would never touch wage indexation. I invite you to read the election programs again! I have a good memory and I could talk about other aspects. "We will never touch the indexation of wages," Chastel said on a television set. I had the courage to propose, and not everyone liked it, to cut wage indexation beyond a certain level of income. I thought this was the right way to protect both low and medium wages by guaranteeing 100% indexation, for example up to 3,500 gross euros. And beyond that, we no longer indexed wages! This had advantages in terms of competitiveness and reduction of public deficits and reduction of public expenditure. It was a measure of social justice and of seeking reforms. But you have imposed too brutal a measure, which has had perverse effects in terms of economic growth. I come back to the Prime Minister's figures on net wages, the increase in purchasing power for households. I'm going back to his example. He's talking about a salary of 1,500 gross euros a month. With the tax system prior to the tax shift, that was 1 559.50 euros of tax per year. The net in pocket is therefore 16,440.50 euros per year. We are now told that the tax shift gain is 83 euros per month. Indeed! But it is necessary to deduce from this the increases in indirect taxation in consumption. There has been an increase in VAT on electricity. For an average household consumption (according to the Economy FPS statistics), it is necessary to count 8 euros in less per month. With the increase in diesel, you have to remove 4.5 euros per month. With the increase in the price of alcohol (with two to three bottles per month), you must remove 5.10 euros per month. And I didn't count the cigarettes! You're withdrawing 17,7. And then you add wage indexation. But you do not subtract what you withdrew from the indexation of wages last year, which cancels the measure. We know that over time there will be a cumulative effect. And above all, you add to this the benefit of the inter-professional agreement that you quote, in this case, at 28 euros. By the way, 1.1% of 18,000 euros doesn't make 28 euros. You should review your numbers a little bit, though, to be precise. But first, the interprofessional agreement is not a government measure. This is a negotiation between the social partners. As a result of productivity gains, particularly for the business world, wage increases have been accepted. This is not at all the result of a government policy. I would even like to say that if you had not shrank the negotiations between the social partners, particularly with regard to the growth of the wage standard, the result might have been more interesting than 1.1%. This increase will not be equally distributed among all workers. We still have to have the honesty to say it: it will not necessarily be the same amount for all. You're giving benefits. When I do the definitive calculation objectively, I find that the reality of the monthly increase in net wages, on the basis of government measures alone, is 60.3 euros. This is the correction in terms of numbers. That's a long way from what you announced in the election campaign. I remember a debate I had with you on RTL's set. You explained that the tax reform desired by the MR would certainly increase workers' incomes by about 200 euros net per month, in a self-financing way - which no one believed. I remember this debate as if it were yesterday.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u119	Mr President, I persist and I sign. First, I'm not going to comment on the election campaign. We announced a €5 billion tax reform. In the framework of the tax shift, over the legislature, it reached an approximate amount of 8 billion euros. This is much more than what was announced before the election. Then you speculate about alcohol consumption and cigarette consumption. You do not mention that we have decided to gradually increase diesel. As far as gasoline is concerned, like many European countries, we are trying to develop taxation that encourages more environmentally friendly behaviour. Interprofessional agreement is a good example. You're trying to say it's not our responsibility. That's a good example. It had not been possible to conclude an interprofessional agreement in that country for years. Why have the social partners been able to conclude an interprofessional agreement? Because a few weeks earlier, we had reached an important agreement within the government on the reform of the 1996 law, which led the social partners, in this context, to agree on wage increases, so that precisely the first growth gains recorded during this parliamentary term could also be shared with our fellow citizens. Secondly, the developments that will take place in the coming months, thanks, for example, to the very important decision, the principle of which was adopted in July, will enable employees to benefit more from the gains of companies when they realize them. This is an additional element which clearly shows that your theoretical and virtual comparison of the additional taxes and indirect taxes that would neutralise the elements of purchasing power is totally false. Finally, I come to the National Bank, the Planning Office and the Institute of National Accounts. All these bodies show that purchasing power is progressing, in contrast to the situation that existed under the previous legislature. In terms of growth, you can always act as if you didn't hear. I responded earlier by complementing Mr. Van Overtveldt, when Mrs Fonck spoke on the subject. Compared to the previous legislature, our growth is twice as strong. I agree that it is not in the average of the euro area countries. However, the starting point is not the same, since we have resisted the economic crisis much better in Belgium, for the reasons I mentioned earlier. If I follow your reasoning, Mr. Maingain, the African countries that are developing, with growth rates ranging from 3 to 9 per cent, would therefore offer a better situation for their citizens than our country. What an absurd and foolish economic reasoning! You're not bad as a lawyer, but as a mathematician, you have some progress to make.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u120	Mr Maingain, I will add another argument concerning the relationship between indirect taxes and purchasing power. An increase in the former does not automatically lead to a loss of the latter. It always translates into prices, Mr. Laaouej. When taxes are increased, prices may rise. However, there are cases where they do not rise - or then partially. When we look at the evolution of the consumer price index, we see the effects of taxation on purchasing power. This morning, the Prime Minister provided figures for real disposable income, that is, that which is available after the calculation of the inflation rate, including...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u121	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u122	Yes, Mr. Laaouej, including the effects of indirect taxes. I repeat, when purchasing power is affected, it is always through prices, but not because of the taxes themselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u123	Mr Prime Minister, whether you like it or not, Eurostat statistics do not yet contain - which would allow you to base your argument - data on economic growth in African countries. So, pretending that, in terms of growth, I take African countries as a term of comparison, that is irrelevant. To clarify the point of comparison, you tell me, "It's like you're talking about African countries." But I didn't mention it. I consider the euro area on the basis of the Eurostat indicator, with constant data over time. It's your right to challenge them. But, then, prove to me how those that relate to today would be wrong compared to those of the last quarter of 2015. They're not wrong. When you go below the European average, you do it - whether you like it or not - in the light of Eurostat's constant long-term data. I therefore affirm that your government is responsible for having degraded Belgium's position in the ranking of European states, based on several indicators, including this one. These are intangible and indisputable data.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u124	Mr Maingain, what I am trying to explain with pedagogy is that, in order to take into account the economic vitality of a state, we must of course look at the rate of growth. I recognize that this is an extremely important criterion. And, moreover, until now, I have systematically witnessed positive, favourable corrections to the rate of growth, month after month. I did not use the data of an institute, which depends on the university, indicating recently that we were getting closer and closer to the 2% growth rate. The growth rate is a parameter. The second substantial parameter is the starting point, GDP per capita. And then you omit to say that, with regard to GDP per capita, we are in the top of the European ranking. Certainly, when per capita GDP is higher, one must have an involvement in the question of growth rate. I repeat for the third and last time this afternoon that indeed our country has resisted the economic crisis better than others in previous years thanks to social protections. That is why we are determined to ensure that there is more employment. Because more jobs ensure that our social protections are properly funded and that we also support economic growth and return to a virtuous circle of prosperity.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u125	Prime Minister, you said you wanted a democracy of results and no slogans. The more I hear your way of defending your government action, the more I think you're on the slogan and not yet on the bottom line. I didn't say everything was negative in your government action. When I reply to the journalists, for example, I say that I might otherwise have modulated the reduction in social security contribution rates, that I might have targeted certain sectors in a stronger way, rather than a linear measure. I am simply saying that I approve of some of your measures – I have not criticized all your measures, far from it – but that you have not, today, all the expected results because you have made certain choices at the expense of purchasing power. The index jump was not economically necessary. We weren't in a period...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u126	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u127	Crack! Did you hear that? You said it! Ah! It was fairer on the social level, for the recipients not for the income from work. You made choices there that were not the ones I would have made on a purely economic level.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u128	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u129	Did you write the index jump?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u130	The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u131	Mr President, let us be specific! Let us take the time for democracy and arguments on the substance. Let's do it exactly! In the case of the index jump that was decided, it was largely socially corrected because the welfare envelopes were stimulated, precisely to try to neutralize the indexation for the allowances. There is indeed a potential impact on allowances. You have just said, quite surprisingly, that the allowances were not concerned. They are concerned and this has been corrected by means of the allowances which have been increased: minimum pensions, as indicated, and social integration incomes + 9%, modified and increased 5 times. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u132	What about the income from work? You're distracting the point. I said that I was advocating, in terms of wage indexation, to keep a full indexation up to a certain amount of income – I quoted the amount of 3,500 euros gross – and to cut beyond it. Don't come to say I was for a total index jump. That's not true! We have a different methodology on this issue, which would have been reflected in a difference in the availability of labour income and purchasing power. Mr President, I conclude. Yes, Prime Minister, I consider, whether you like it or not, that you have made economic choices that have rather degraded Belgium's position in the European rankings in relation to a number of key indicators. Whether you like it or not, this is the result of your policy! That is why – and because I have no more time to explain – I consider that the policy you are pursuing does not offer the results that citizens can expect, especially in terms of their basic needs and dignity in terms of labour and social income.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u133	Thank you, Mr. Maingain. I call Mrs Wouters.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u134	Mr President, Prime Minister, one thing is clear about the Summer Agreement, which everyone agrees on and on which no discussion is possible, in particular that it was concluded in the summer. However, its real content is not entirely clear up to now. We have heard a lot of autumn bickering about this. However, I would have liked to know its real content, because what will be the effect of all these measures? After all the bickering, Prime Minister, yesterday I expected a little more clarity and perhaps some new elements from you. But no, you didn't surprise me and there was nothing new under the sun. Mr Prime Minister, I am actually wondering, since you said nothing new, why you did not keep the State of the Union at Tomorrowland. You could have made your statement on the beats of Dimitri Vegas and maybe there was more schwung in it. You have requested and received a postponement, but unfortunately there has been no further clarification. In the meantime, we are 77 days later and we do not yet have any concrete texts. I'd have liked to have some numbers, too. There are figures, in particular this summer's wet fingering, but we are still waiting for the exact figures. We should not expect too much more in the next 18 months, because next year we will be four days ahead of the municipal elections. We should not expect too many heroics here. Too bad, because this was the moment. This could have been the last chance to prove that the reforms are being implemented. Unfortunately. I note, however, that the government is in any case good at breaking very expensive oaths, such as the budget balance. The balance of the budget has first been postponed a little bit and then let go completely. That was, of course, in exchange for a Community stand-still, but the budgetary balance has been abandoned. In addition, I note that the objectives of the fight against poverty are also being adjusted. The fight against poverty, together with the Community, is therefore in the refrigerator. The reform of corporate taxation is a good thing that I fully agree with, but the question arises as to whether it will be a tax shift or a tax cut. I know that a number of majority parties would find it very pleasant if it were to become a tax cut. Apparently, there are already a lot of texts in circulation, except in Parliament. I do not know if colleagues have seen texts, but I have not yet. This would show that small businesses cannot benefit immediately from the reform of corporate taxation. I even hear from a lot of accountants that it might be detrimental to small businesses, with all the other measures that would follow as part of the reform. I therefore call on you, ladies and gentlemen, to do this work thoroughly, to examine this proposal in detail. Indeed, the SMEs are the economic fabric of Flanders and, as Mr Verherstraeten said, we must give full support to small businesses and the self-employed. They must be able to benefit fully from the reform of corporate taxation. So please take to heart all the comments that have already been made today. One cannot afford not to be thorough in this respect, and certainly not as compared to the Netherlands, where Rutte III lowers the dividend tax to 0 % and corporate tax from 25% to 21%. So much for our reform! We see the Netherlands as the good example, we follow the Netherlands, but when we are almost there, the Netherlands is already ahead of us. Too bad, we should have been able to do this much earlier. I come to the trap of fiscal justice. The securities tax, which has already been mentioned a great deal, should raise 254 million. What is the situation, however? We have not yet seen the final texts. The question is whether the draft has already been sent to the Council of State. Here and there it is hoped that she would quietly beach there. Moreover, the design of the securities tax, as we have heard so far, shows that most of that tax will actually be paid by the Flemings. We really cannot argue in favour of that. I do not understand why the Flemish parties in this majority are simply allowing this to happen. I fully understand you, Prime Minister, Mr Reynders and your colleagues from the MR. In Wallonia, the securities tax will not make that much play. But in Flanders all the more. We know that from the past. Who pays the majority of the increase in the property tax? By the Flemings. The same applies to all adjustments relating to tank cards and commercial vehicles. After all, where are most commercial vehicles, most tank cards? In Flanders. We know the story. So please bear that in mind. Then there's ARCO. The solution for ARCO would be now, at least as far as we can speak of a solution here and if what has been proposed is true. After all, we do not have any results. I believe that this problem remains. This solution, too, is simply a form of state aid. I know you're hiring expensive law firms and wasting a lot of money working out nice advice and still trying to figure out another trick. However, I do not think that Europe will approve of this. After all, the taxpayer must not bear the brunt of this. I'd like to take another look back at the coalition agreement. On the complexity of taxation, I read the following: "The complexity has increased to such an extent that taxpayers no longer see the current system as fair. We already knew that. We still know that today. What else does it say? The government is committed to reforming, simplifying and modernising the tax system with a view to reducing overall fiscal and parafiscal pressures, without deteriorating the budgetary situation. All well and good, but that simplification is far from easy. We got a lot of extra codes in our tax bill. So we cannot talk about simplification. Is the system fair? No, I didn't. Then I have a question I haven't heard here today. What about the redesign? We once said that it would raise 750 million by 2020. However, in this whole agreement, I do not find any redesign measure and much less of the 750 million. So a lot of money was spent to set up an agency to prepare that redesign, but we haven't noticed too much about the redesign itself. So much for taxation. Another theme is jobs. Indeed, the pay handicap compared to our neighbouring countries has declined. That's good work. If it's okay, we'll tell you. Yes, I fully support you, Prime Minister, when you say that we need to address the mismatch that exists today between the profile of the unemployed and the profile of people sought in the labour market. You say that you will help the Länder and conclude agreements on this. I fully support that. There must be plenty of work to be done on this. We also fully agree that the trial period should be restored. So that's all not so bad. The fall in unemployment must also be eliminated. We have to make work pay, but the question is, of course, whether the net wage has actually increased as much as you claim. You have to be honest. There is indeed an increase in jobs, and we can only welcome this, but we cannot say that this is only the government's merit. This also has to do with the European economic situation. There are of course the systems like the flexi jobs, the ability to earn 500 euros extra, sharing in profits. These are probably all well-intentioned measures, but there is a risk that a whole number of full-time jobs could be lost. We have to keep a very close eye on this, because that cannot of course be the intention. Finally, your government has managed to create a very high level of uncertainty among the population around pensions, while in that area you have to provide legal certainty for the population. Workers need to know where they stand, especially if they have worked and contributed for years and are at the door of the pension. It is clear to us that you must honour the acquired rights of those involved. Mr President, I am waiting impatiently for exact figures; I do not need wet fingering. I am also waiting impatiently for the budget texts. Mr President, I hope that we can agree with the current government and with you that these texts will be submitted in good time so that they are not pushed down the throat of Parliament, but that we have enough time to examine them and discuss them. After all, one thing is clear. We politicians have to answer to the citizens and the voters. This can only be done if an in-depth debate can be held. I therefore hope that the government will cooperate with Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u135	Colleagues, thank you for being so numerous at the end of this sitting to attend this speech. Prime Minister, I listened very carefully to your speech and told me that we lived in two different worlds. I've been wondering how it's possible to live in two such different worlds. For example, you did not say a word about the more than 350 000 long-term sick, not a word about the more than 60 000 women who are at risk of poverty, not a word about child poverty, which doubled in ten years. You only mentioned figures to show that you did a good job, that you took care of jobs, jobs, jobs, and that we're moving forward, that it's good, that it's better and so on. How is it possible that there are so two different worlds? Above all, I noticed that you came forward with figures to confirm that you are doing well and that you have created jobs. The quality of these jobs has been under discussion for a year. In your speech, you wanted to answer a statement from our Labour Party. You wanted to respond to the PTB that criticized you on the quality of jobs. I quote: "Some say that these are precarious jobs. That's not true!" And to make sure we understand "That's not true" is printed in bold. "Partial employment has not increased. According to ONSS, it was largely full-time and private sector jobs that led to this result. Between the end of 2015 and the end of 2016, the number of full-time jobs increased by 60,941 units. Moreover, flexi-jobs obviously had no effect on these figures." We went to look at the ONSS figures. You made it up. We agree on the number of additional jobs: 60,941 units On the other hand, compared to the last two quadrants, 39,000 full-time, 10,000 part-time, 12,000 acting. When you tell us that most of these are full-time jobs and that part-time employment has not increased, you lie. That's a problem. The PTB already perceived that the reality was quite different. It could be seen in the field that this was mainly part-time. We meet these young people who tell us that yes, they have their job at two-thirds time or part-time with which they cannot buy a house because the bank does not grant a loan without a full time. In our experience as an activist, we knew that the numbers were not right. So we went to see more in detail. And the ONSS numbers say the same thing. Mr Peeters gave us an answer against the fact that our claim was not true and that it was mainly about fixed jobs. But Mr Peeters was not talking at all about interim work. Intellectually, he says, it is not taken into account. But when we sue the prematureity of the jobs, it is not just about part-time work, but also about interim work. Why doesn't Mr Peeters give those figures? I'll give you the answer. He says 50 000 new jobs have been added, but 13 000 jobs have been lost in public services. Yeah, that's easy, of course. Private employment is being created, but what are you doing about the 13,000 jobs in the public sector that have disappeared? When we count all this, we find that between 50% and 75% of the jobs created are part-time jobs. These are the ONSS figures. Prime Minister, we have a problem. What vision of society do you have? Which society do we want to go to? You tell us that you create jobs, but you fully fit into the German model. In Germany, that is clear. Four million workers still live below the poverty line. Do we really want a society of working poor with more and more flexibility and workload? Last week, I was with workers from Volvo Ghent. You might be able to listen a little bit to what's going on there. Those Volvo men in Ghent are imposed a line production speed of 73 seconds before each operation. To do their operation in the production line speed, Volvo workers receive 73 seconds. Volvo's leadership decided to take that to 71 seconds, 2 seconds less to perform the operation, and 60 interim workers were fired. Now Volvo's leadership in Ghent wants to go to 67 seconds to fire 250 interim workers. The workload is increasing; that is what is happening in Flanders.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u136	In the interests of pedagogy, a number of things have to be explained in connection with job creation. First, extremely important, I am pleased that you confirm that we have been creating additional jobs for three years. This is extremely important to stimulate economic dynamism. It is true that yesterday, in my statement, I took up the figure of 130 000 jobs, a relatively modest figure since the report of the National Bank refers to 146 000 jobs. I didn't want to flatter the numbers, which is why I used that number. We are, in any case, beyond the 130,000 jobs that have been created over the past three years. Secondly, because I am attentive to your comments and not only to yours, but also to those of other opposition parties, I hear, of course, that is true - we hear a little disappointment: jobs are created. That seems to disappoint you! They wouldn't be of quality! That's the statement you're making. Flexi-jobs, as I said, and you have not contested them, are a change from your usual populist propaganda, they are not included in the job creation figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u137	I never mentioned flexi-jobs!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u138	Then temporary work. I assume a rather fundamental divergence of view with yours, because temporary work is an indicator, when it goes up, of the vitality in terms of the economic growth of a society, of a country. Moreover, in very many cases, it leads to stable employment and sometimes even in the society in which one has had the opportunity to develop his temporary work. Third argument: to persist and sign - I could not be exhaustive in my government statement - recently on 2017, the Central Employment Council (a report that I would like to make available to you) says that in Belgium, and this is a record compared to other European countries, "90 % of paid employment takes place under open-ended contracts, which is higher than many of our neighbouring countries". Moreover, this figure is stable (2017 figures) and totally contrary to what you want to make falsely believe in search of propaganda. In addition to the ONSS figures you have identified yourself, the FPS Economy has shown stability in recent years (it is quite interesting to look at them) in the proportion of full-time and part-time employment. As far as I am concerned, I bring an important nuance: part time in many cases is involved, you are right in this, it is not necessarily voluntary, but in other cases it is voluntary and chosen. I give a rather interesting example: the observation of part-time part-time work shows us a development that needs to be confirmed: there are fewer women than before in this situation. The indicators are interesting. It is a simmer that will have to be confirmed to feel the trend. On the other hand, what is true – and that is where you are in bad faith, Mr Raoul Hedebouw – is that the 4/5 times, in recent years, have increased. Probably because of the ability to choose, in a number of cases, not to work full-time. When you want to use arguments, you have to do it with a minimum of integrity. It is not the own of a populist, simplistic party that uses propaganda. You said, "We don't live in the same world." You're absolutely right. We do not live in your retrograde communist world, which probably leads to the PTB's offices of study being the same as those of Venezuela. True, in your own world, there are no precarious jobs. There is no more employment at all!. History has shown it! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u139	Now it's getting nervous about the numbers. I took ONSS, because you're referring to it yourself. Now you're quoting all the other sources. I ask you, now, to take a stand. You said yesterday: "Partial employment has not increased. According to ONSS, it was very much full-time and private sector jobs that led to this result." Do you come back to these words or do you persist? The ONSS figures are very clear: 50% part-time. People have a right to know. These are the ONSS figures. I ask you here to say that ONSS is lying and not doing its job.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u140	I'm used to it. You choose the show! You were absent from the discussions all afternoon. You are here to make a small video of a few seconds to broadcast on Facebook. You're a populist. You're a simplistic. I persist and I sign: the jobs created are quality jobs.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u141	Can you answer the question? That's amazing! We're bad!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u142	You want to make it look like we're not creating 130,000 jobs because we're creating part-time jobs. That's not reality. I have shown, with supporting figures, that there is stability in the relationship between full-time and part-time jobs. I would add, because I am nuanced in contrast to you that, in some cases, part-time jobs are chosen and are not covered. In other cases, they are suffering and we are all mobilized for the quality of jobs, for more economic development, for more investment. We don't believe in your populist recipes for a moment to make you think you could shave for free! With you, it is more poverty and less freedom, as is currently happening in Venezuela, a regime that you support in the most total shame!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u143	Mr President, I feel like we're slipping a little bit. I propose that we receive the table that the Prime Minister quoted so that we can read the latest figures on this matter. It is important to see exactly what the quality of the job is. At this point, I hear things. Studies are under way to check whether what is said is correct. We're not gonna do the part today. On the other hand, we are interested in the Prime Minister's data and I would like to receive his picture. In this way, we can move forward. Otherwise, we will stay on that and the cartoons on both sides will not move the debate forward. On the other hand, the tables and figures, yes, so that academics can look at them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u144	Mr President, we are making the ONSS tables and reports available to colleagues. This is an excellent proposal from my colleague Nollet. We will therefore be able to see together the quality of the job created. This is not a small debate. The question here is what society we want to go to and what types of jobs we want to create. I took Volvo's example to show how hard work is getting. People are increasingly pushed into production and one of the consequences is the explosion of long-term patients. People are exhausted. There's a burn out explosion in our society. It's a problem in a society... That is a problem, a society with so much high-tech knowledge, with which we could do so much for people, while on the ground, in factories such as Volvo, they are being squeezed out more and more and deal with burn-outs. What happens under this government to the people who burn out and to the long-term sick? They are increasingly forced to take those courses. And what happens? A study by the ACV has shown that 70% of those people lose their jobs because they are considered incompetent. That's the problem. Increasing productivity in our society is putting pressure on people and, as a long-term sick person, they come to the end of their careers. On the pensions! That is, of course, a very important debate. We are faced with a situation in which workers and servants with a career of 45 years at the end of their careers lose their jobs and then see their pensions cut. I always hear you suggest that the difference between workers and non-workers is too small. You're right. Just do more for the pensions of the workers and servants who work. What is the point, however, of reducing the pensions of those who no longer have a job? That's not what society cares about, is it? The issue of pension financing is obviously very important. Today, 10 points of our GDP go to pensioners and we are told that it is impossible to finance the massive influx of new pensioners. The projections of the Study Committee on Ageing show us a share of GDP of 14.7 to 15 per cent in 2060. But what's the problem with paying, dear friends? A country like Austria spends 15% of its GDP on pensions. What is the democratic problem? In 2060, 30 per cent of the population will be pensioners. Is it really a problem to decide that we're gonna give them 15% of the cake? Why can't our wealth be sent to those 30 per cent of the population who have worked their entire lives and contributed to our economy? Could it not be considered that half of their GDP would go to pensioners? No, because a dogma is raging that it has to stay a third and we won't have the money to pay for future pensions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u145	Mr President, Mr Hedebouw, you are asking what the problem is. How come it is possible in Austria and we are on our way to solving the problem? In Austria there is a higher employment rate. There is an important relationship between employment rates and the budget, which is often underestimated. If the employment rate can be increased by 1%, you will thus be able to hold on to the budget by 0.75 %. It's that relationship between the two that you underestimate. You cite the example of Austria and ask why this cannot be done in Austria. In that case, you should look at the employment rate there. In this respect, you should also look at the employment rate in the Scandinavian countries. It's like the current government's policy to push people systematically and little by little towards a longer career, which is the only way. If the careers in our country are four years shorter in 40 years than in neighbouring countries, that makes 10%. If we lose that collective wealth, we cannot invest them in social matters and in pensions. That's the problem. Your alternative is to enter a multimillionaire stake. Look what that tax has earned in France, where the tax may now be abolished. France has raised EUR 6 billion from that tax. Discontaminated to a smaller country, that means EUR 1 billion. With this EUR 1 billion, we will never be able to solve the major problem of pensions. Your question is where the problem lies. The problem lies in the employment rate. If we can solve this, we can also guarantee our pensions in the long term. Your alternative to the multimillionaire tax will never be enough to solve the much greater problem of pensions and the employment rate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u146	Mr Bogaert, the millionaire tax is not supposed to solve the problem of pensions. We have a different plan for that. I'll be back on the millionaire stake later, but don't push me too fast in the direction of that tax. It's not about that. It is about the fact that the number of workers in Austria is much higher. The careers themselves are no longer there. For the people who have a job, the careers aren't even anymore. It's about the average of society in terms of jobs. At present, nowhere has been shown why longer working would create more jobs. On the contrary, the figures in Sweden are very interesting. When Sweden made the people work longer, the jobs for the youth have just been reduced. It is therefore not a question of a comparison between Sweden and Belgium. If we take the graph into account, it is the situation in Sweden itself. You always compare Sweden and Belgium at zero time level. But even in Sweden, it is clear that when people start working longer, there is a decrease in jobs for young people. It's a problem today. We are not going to do the whole debate of the Scandinavian model, which invests heavily in public transport, etc. That's not the point here. But you come yourself with these examples. But in any case, I think the question to ask is: "Does working longer create employment?" For the time being, no studies have shown this. I think it's a dogma.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u147	Mr. Hedebouw, you still have three minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u148	It's all going fast! Minister, you are not going to encroach on the three minutes I have left. I still have a few subjects to deal with. I would like to be complete in my speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u149	I'd like to get rid of some confusion. We must be well aware of what differentiates Belgium from all other European countries. Our country has a special character in terms of pensions and employment for workers over 60 years of age. The average age of exit from the labour market in Belgium is 60 years. With France, we are an exception. We are the only two countries to have this characteristic. That is why France is preparing to carry out an in-depth reform of its pension system.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u150	Austria is not one of them either.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u151	Austria, like all other European countries, also has an average exit age between the ages of 62 and 64. So we are an exception. Similarly, the employment rate of 60-64 year olds is one in four in Belgium. In the rest of Europe and OECD countries, almost one in two people, aged 60-64, work. It's a huge difference. If we ignore this in order to define a pension policy in Belgium, we are going wrong and we are still in a dead end. We have to take this into account. We must ensure that, gradually, the average age of exit from the labour market is raised, and that the rate of activity and employment between the ages of 60 and 64 is increased. This obviously does not mean that everyone is going to work until the age of 67. I repeat it often. This is not necessary to raise the employment rate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u152	A few will work until 80 years and it will be settled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u153	Yes, there will be one who will work until 80 years, and he is known! But the others won't. We must be aware of this problem specific to Belgium. To respond to the correlation between the employment of older people and that of young people, you take the Scandinavian model. It is not relevant here because, as you know, a radical change in youth employment policy took place in Sweden a few years ago.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u154	It was you who put Sweden as an example for three years. It is the right-wing parties that do this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u155	Take the Netherlands, Great Britain and Germany. In these three countries, the average age of exit from work is around 63 years, three years older than at home. In these countries, youth unemployment is much less important than at home.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u156	The minister explains that there are more jobs. You show that, in countries where there are more jobs, there are more jobs. That's right!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u157	Mrs De Coninck has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u158	Mr President, I will still take my three minutes to say what I have to say.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u159	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u160	Mr Hedebouw, there are a lot of studies that prove that work also creates work. The more people there work, the more jobs there are. I have to contradict the Minister of Pensions. Do you know what you realized with your announcement that everyone has to work for up to 67 years? Anyone who could have applied for a pension immediately. You have caused this by not providing an entire system at once and making decisions in salami discs. The current uncertainty means that most people want to retire as soon as possible, even those who wanted to work longer. So much is constantly changing and there is so much uncertainty. What you've caused with your policy is that people work less long.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u161	Mr President, do I have an additional minute because I am asked to answer on the merits?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u162	Yeah, to give a line.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u163	Mr Clarinval, everyone spoke for two and a half years in committee, recalling the Swedish example. I demonstrate that in Sweden there is no cause and effect link between working longer and youth employment and I am told that now Sweden is no longer a reference. There are no studies showing cause-effect relationships. At the most, we're going to look for a correlation. You're telling me that in countries where there's a lot of work, young people work more and old people work more. You're not going to prove anything with that! You do not show a cause and effect link! Not at all! I think you're wrong. Allowing older people to leave on a voluntary basis - there is no obligation; those who want to continue to work continue to work! - and young people to take their place, allowing them to have the choice is a fundamental political and democratic point. I will conclude this speech on another point that has touched me a lot, the international one. Prime Minister, you mentioned multilateralism in your speech without mentioning once the UN! When you talk about multilateralism, you talk about NATO. That's disturbing! I think that Belgium should have given an important signal for a true multilateralism that is not under American domination. NATO is under American domination. Trump's remarks today are almost three-, four-country political declarations of war, and our Prime Minister speaks only about NATO in his speech. This is a serious problem because we have learned this week that the Nobel Peace Prize was given to an international organization, the Call against Nuclear Weapons Treaties. One hundred and twenty-two countries have signed this declaration aimed at the prohibition of nuclear weapons, but not Belgium. Why? We should have given a signal today as the number of nuclear weapons explodes in the world and accumulates. But Belgium did not give it. Prime Minister, on this matter, we expected much more from you! I mean, yesterday, for most of the speech, we got a little bit off our nose, except for one moment when we applauded a lot. The applause was somewhat subdued, but at one time everyone woke up, namely when you attacked the strike, which was followed by a big applause. And the question of minimum service was discussed. Prime Minister, I was in committee with Minister Bellot; for four hours he told us: "I do not introduce a minimum service." Is that right, Mr. Bellot? You corrected us to tell us that it wasn't a minimum service. And you kept, for two-three hours, that it wasn't a minimum service, that it was a team of volunteers. Mr. Bellot, did you hear the Prime Minister yesterday? Maybe you'll have to explain it to her! There must be a communication problem! So, Mr. Bellot, a minimum service or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u164	It's a guaranteed minimum service.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u165	Have you been framed?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u166	Mr Hedebouw, I would also point out that you would have had difficulty hearing me for four hours since you left this important debate, it seems to me, after two and a half hours. That being said, it is true that it is a guaranteed minimum or minimum service guaranteed. What's the difference? The minimum service in a pure etymological state is a word patented by the International Labour Organization (ILO). For them, it is, for example, the monitoring of nuclear power plants, the emergencies of hospitals. Even the Council of State, while we have always talked about continuity of service or guaranteed service in order to be able to deliver its opinion, has joined the interpretation of the International Labour Organization, while we do not requisition, we guarantee the service. For example, yesterday there was a minimum service. In everyone's mind, it was a minimum service; it was the available workers who operated the trains. To remove doubts about the International Labour Organization, everyone is talking about minimum service, but from a scientific point of view, it is best to speak of guaranteed service.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u167	You have two more minutes, Mr. Hedebouw.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u168	It didn't surprise me that everyone would applaud at that time. On the benches of the majority, you feel that anger is deep in the population. It's not just yesterday's strike that's the barometer. I really think people are very angry. They feel they don't live better today than they did three or four years ago. And you hope to break this resistance with new anti-union laws, by removing trade union rights, by individualizing the right to strike and no longer allowing this collective resistance. I really think you're wrong. You're really wrong. Just look at all the governments that have tried to break the dynamics of resistance in this way. You went to Mrs Thatcher's house to get the mustard. You're going to crash because people won't let you do it. They are very angry about many socio-economic, ethical aspects and everything that is happening in the world. I feel more and more growing resistance and it is a call – I am not going to convince you here – that I would like to make to all citizens. Don't let it happen! Trust yourself! Be constructive! Get involved in the political debate! Do not think that everything is already decided and that there is no alternative! TINA, TINA, TINA. Today we heard in a speech that there was no alternative: "There is no alternative." We say yes to the alternative. Let us activate the big fortunes and invest in the social, in the industry and do not expect from the stock market, these great fortunes that they continue to enrich! We need another world, better. We will do it, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u169	Mr. President, Prime Minister, Ministers, Colleagues... [[Brouhahaha]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u170	Come on, come on! Please let Mr. Carcaci speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u171	Prime Minister, I listened carefully yesterday to your relatively ambitious policy brief. Like the Spanish dossier, you can see that you are sailing between two waters: on the one hand, the pressure of the Flemish right and, on the other, the extreme prudence of the centrists. Moreover, you are devoting a mini-chapter to the ARCO file and to the compensation of European co-operators. You mention it without touching it. For the moment, you ensured the minimum trade union. You are announcing three projects for 2018: prosperity, social cohesion and freedoms. You also have an ambition: to invest in the future. First of all, however, I would like to point out to you that protecting citizens from all forms of extremism is not a fallback, but a proof of responsibility. You regularly refer to the European Union, which needs to be reformed because its institutions do not meet the expectations of the citizens. Pending these institutional changes, it is normal for States to be able to remedy such shortcomings. It's even your duty. On the other hand, if we can approve some structural reforms, we cannot agree on everything. With regard to the "prosperity" and "social cohesion" aspects, too many measures were violently and negatively affecting citizens, particularly workers, while other avenues could be explored. Some reforms, even partially implemented, show a clear improvement in the situation. Why not deepen them? You shout "Jobs! Jobs! Jobs!" But why not extend the reduction of social security contributions to several jobs instead of limiting yourself to the first? More than 85,000 jobs have been created under this provision. Similarly, why not extend it to persons with disabilities who wish to work? This is currently impossible because they do not benefit from unemployment benefits but from an allowance. It is imperative that mechanisms be put in place to promote their access to employment. You will achieve two objectives: reduction of the budget linked to allowances and social integration through work. Expenditure must inevitably be reduced in such a way as to find ways to finance growth mechanisms. We share that vision. But here too, you can give another dimension to your policy. In the short term, plan a reform of the institutional landscape by opting for an application based on the functional and more on the ideological. Is it still reasonable to have several ministers of climate, energy, mobility? Are the Senate and provincial institutions still in line with the evolution of our country? Asking questions is already the answer when we see the state of our road infrastructure. You want to put finance in order, it's also an opportunity. With regard to the taking of hostages of workers and students by trade unions, we call for much more functional measures in this area. Get inspired! It wouldn't be the first time. Social consultation is obviously very important in order to bring about ambitious projects, but tolerating the right to strike as it is, without legislating on the right to work, is clearly a hindrance to economic recovery. On the issue of freedoms, the world is indeed undergoing a profound transformation and becomes, as you have said, multipolar. However, opposing self-absorbing multilateralism is a serious mistake. In referring to these terms, you are undeniably thinking of the rise of extreme right-wing parties in Europe. But you do not ask the question of the reason for this large number of citizens who turn to these parties because they no longer see any way out of this model of Europe and turn to Eurosceptic or even Europhobic parties. Listening to the citizen, the primacy of the human being, is what Europe, unfortunately, does not do. The migration crisis, social dumping and globalisation are all subjects where Europe proves to be powerless. You, Prime Minister, must absolutely implement a dynamic to this Europe, by putting additional pressure, if necessary. You also say that Belgium is and will remain a host country for refugees. I do not believe for a moment that, in our country, anyone, except a few groups, wants to turn back people who are fleeing war and its horrors, or a totalitarian political regime. However, what causes indignation among our fellow citizens, and many studies show that it is the priorities and social benefits that are given to some people, while you continue to plan the social gains of our fellow citizens who have a full career behind them and who have contributed a lifetime. It is this injustice that creates indignation, and it is human. That's where the bastard hurts. We must also note that insecurity has never been more pronounced than it has been since that wave of migration. I refuse to combine migrants with terrorists, but a more realistic, more appropriate policy would allow the population to regain a better sense of security. Your government must continue to apply to structurally change the rules in this area, while preserving the right to privacy. Countries can inspire us in terms of security, particularly at airports and stations. In conclusion, far from me the idea of doing the show like some or giving lessons like others. I simply want to participate actively and modestly in the revival of Belgium, affected by so many years of governance where laxism prevailed over pragmatism by promoting assistance against winds and tides and leaving a social and economic desert. Prime Minister, I will abstain from the vote of confidence in your government. We believe that while your reforms are moving in the right direction, they are too timid and ultimately lack ambition. You could do better than that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u172	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking all the speakers in this debate. Throughout the afternoon, we had the opportunity, with conviction, passion and even humour, to share democratic values, to confront our opinions, parliamentarians of the majority, parliamentarians of the opposition. I will address the points raised without being exhaustive because I have had the opportunity to reply in the context of the discussions that have taken place over the last few hours. Our conviction that this is a clear message for the future is that job creation and economic development are the best guarantee to support those who need support. Social security is an asset in our country and we know that social security throughout history is the result of clear commitments by many political parties in recent decades. Today, however, in the 21st century, we are also faced with new challenges. The solutions of the past are not necessarily the best answers to the challenges of tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. A first important point is jobs, jobs, jobs. Competivity comes first. We believe that the first results are indeed positive. However, we are also aware that it is not enough. We realize that it is not easy for many people, for many families, at the end of the month to pay their invoices. That is why we, the majority and the opposition, know that the debate on purchasing power is particularly important for the future. We are convinced that mobilizing means to promote purchasing power is a key issue. We are convinced, with the support of studies, that with the tax shift, significant progress is being made in this area compared to previous years. Do we want to do more and better? Yes, we are mobilized to continue the work and to ensure that the tax shift is fully implemented in its purchasing power dimension, mainly for low and medium wages. I would like to highlight a second point, but I do not want to go into the matter I raised a few moments ago. Contrary to messages that have been peddled in recent months, the indications at this stage show that the jobs created are in exactly the same ratio, in terms of full-time and part-time jobs, as in recent years. With regard to part-time jobs, the figures we have had show, for several years, even before the beginning of this Parliament, that there has been a trend towards more than 4/5th time and, in particular, less half-time for women. I welcome Mr Nollet's constructive remark. I am confident that, in the coming months, we will continue to make clarity in this area and perhaps to seek the expertise of independent bodies from different perspectives of job quality. Indeed, we must be mobilised to create quality jobs and jobs, even if, as I have said, in our view – even if there are differences, Mr Laaouej – temporary employment gives us the opportunity to gain experience and, in many cases, represents a first step, a gateway, towards a job that can become more sustainable. We want clarity on this dimension and on this dynamic, without there being a somewhat simplistic ideological dispute between us. It wouldn't be a relevant choice. A second important point is economic development. Competitiveness and job creation are the priorities. That's the DNA. We are convinced that it is necessary to do more, to do even better. We have made important decisions in the area of job creation, such as reducing the burden on labour. Even though this was not in the government agreement, we felt it necessary to take an important step towards the reform of corporate taxation. This was an opportunity to do more and better. A clear choice has been made in this. I have found that many opposition parties share our choice to give more support to SME debt holders in corporate taxation. That is a clear signal and a sign of real fiscal justice. I firmly believe that common sense and pragmatic measures, of the same order as the one that establishes zero employer contributions on the first jobs created by the self-employed and that we translate into corporate tax – in parallelism to stimulate economic activity – with a temporary decrease, for small businesses and for self-employed individuals by a rate of 8 to 20% for investments, will produce real and tangible results in 2018 and 2019, which will contribute to stimulating economic activity, which is absolutely necessary. We must be clear about budgetary neutrality. We've made arbitrations. We must ensure – it is also my role and responsibility – that these arbitrations are carried out fairly. Mr Vanvelthoven, in the context of a law on the revival of the economy, we will make clear the implementation of the decisions of the Summer Agreement. I am convinced that the budgetary debates will show that these decisions can be budget-neutral. That's an important test. Indeed, it is intended to carry out a shift in corporation tax. I am not going into the details now, but we have already indicated that we want to recalibrate the issue of notional interests, adapt tax niches so that we can present an offer that is as convincing as possible, knowing that the aim is to stimulate economic activity and to cause an effect on the behaviour of economic actors. Another important point is our labour market. I want to be clear about that, too. How can it be said that a new statute for students wishing to undertake is negative? How can it be said that more balance in our family and professional life, more opportunities and more freedoms would be bad? Do we want to build a 21st century labour market or not? That is the choice we must make. We have made a clear choice there too. It has been decided to try to boost the labour market but in an extremely balanced and highly balanced way. I am pleased to have had a speech earlier by a colleague on the issue of burn out. Mr Nollet, you have rightly stressed a phenomenon that must challenge all of us, the majority and the opposition. In recent years, before the beginning of this legislature, there has been a disturbing, worrying and worrying increase in the number of people with disabilities. This weighs on solidarity, on social security. We must ask ourselves why we are in this situation. It's obvious. I welcome the inquiries on this subject. In this regard, I would like to give you an appointment in the coming months. With Maggie De Block and Kris Peeters, we want to redouble our efforts to better understand this phenomenon from the point of view of prevention and to try to curb this evolution which weighs on our social protections, our solidarity. This essential ambition also seems to me to be common sense. As far as the labour market is concerned, we are now faced with a paradoxical challenge. On the one hand, we find that the companies, the entrepreneurs, create jobs. That's a good thing. That's in the right direction. At the same time, in conversations with SMEs, I find it more difficult to find people who have received the right training for certain jobs. There's a mismatch. On the one hand, jobs are being created and, at the same time, companies are struggling to find people with the qualifications required to fill the jobs in question. It is also a very clear challenge that is mobilising me. We are reaching out to the regions, which are competent for this matter, to examine together how we can strengthen each other in order to create more jobs, while ensuring that the available jobs are actually occupied, which is not yet the case. That is another strong commitment we are making. In the coming months, we will be meeting you to see the results achieved on this extremely important subject. I mentioned earlier the questions about poverty. We cannot remain indifferent. You mentioned numbers. I said this in my speech, highlighting the points of fragility that need to be looked at with modesty and foresight. Undoubtedly, this question of poverty in our societies, including Belgium, is not resolved and must mobilize us. We need to work on this. I heard the arrests. I believe that we must mobilize ourselves in the context of our work on fiscal consolidation, on the order of budgets, and on the basis of our political choices in terms of budgetary choices, to increase the allocations for those for whom daily life is the most difficult, the most painful and the most complex. It is a conviction that I share with you. But at the same time, Mr. Nollet, it is not just a question of allowances. This is true, but it is also a question of jobs, and a question of raising the minimum pension for pensioners who are in the greatest difficulties. Effective decisions have been taken on this subject and new decisions will apply to those with a full career. They will have an additional 7% as of January 2018. We will continue to look at, budget after budget, how we can effectively stimulate and support this fight against poverty. I also believe that, in this area, automatic recognition of social rights for those who really need it is a very important step forward, and I want to highlight it. Without wanting to polemicize, I ask myself the following question. Why was it not possible in the past to decide on such an important principle? I hope that with the digital agenda and with an efficient public office it will be possible to have access to automatic rights, as far as social rights are concerned, especially for the most vulnerable in our society. We know very well – because we are both feet in concrete life, in real life – that, for everyday life, it is often the most fragile ones that have the most difficulty in completing the necessary administrative formalities.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u173	Prime Minister, I hear what you're saying. My question is very simple. Let us repeat today in the rostrum the sentence you spoke in 2014, namely: "We are making a strong commitment. The minimum social benefits will be raised under your legislature to the level of the poverty line."
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u174	That is the ambition of the government agreement. I repeated it yesterday in this gallery. I have repeated that the government agreement provides progressively – because it is not possible to do so in any other way than in a gradual way – for the allowances in question to reach the European threshold. That remains an ambition. Is it complex? Yes. Is it difficult? Yes. Will we still have to make budgetary choices within the coalition, within the government? Yes, we will have further budgetary discussions in the coming months. I'm sure of it, Mr. Nollet. At the most we will succeed in achieving results in terms of job creation and broadening the tax base, the more we will be in a position to be the guarantors of a society where social cohesion is not a slogan but a reality on a daily basis. I am also continuing on a number of other issues that have been raised. I welcome the fact that there is a strong commitment to the issue of access to health for all is absolutely fundamental. As I stated in my statement yesterday, we can be proud. And that's not the pride of a government. It is the pride of a country that has worked with health actors over the last few decades to make our health system one of the best performing, recognised as such at European and even international level. Yes, it's true, it's a department that faces new challenges and challenges, as it has been in the past. The rise in life expectancy, the progress of innovation, actually leads to the question of how we can guarantee tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, access to quality health care for everyone. This requires making choices. I listened very carefully to Mrs Fonck. We will pay attention to the issues raised regarding psychiatric care. We will take into account the inquiries, the calls of Parliament on a number of subjects whose criticism is constructive, positive, to ensure, by being even better informed, that the necessary decisions are taken. One example is the funding of hospitals. I've met a lot of actors and professionals in the last few months. What was the message I heard from a broad majority? That it's heading in the right direction. If we want to be able to give absolute certainty in the future that it will be possible to give access to health care, then it will be necessary to work more in a network logic. That is the framework in which we stand. We are trying to progress subject by subject. Of course, we can always consider that we should not have acted in such or such a way. I respect these points of view. Nevertheless, I would point out to you that at half of the legislature, just a few hours ago, Mrs Fonck, a decision was taken almost unanimously by the health actors. They considered that the proposed budget did meet the needs expressed. This has not always been the case. I recognize that, a few months ago, discussions with health actors were more lively. But, a few hours before the government declaration - random of the calendar - the latter, the mutuals and representatives of the professionals told us that they considered our proposals to be appropriate to their needs. This is another convincing response to this legitimate health concern. [[Applause on the benches of the majority]] I certainly don't want to take too long in this gallery, I'm doing everything I can to go to the point. Another challenge, however, is the future of pensions. It is necessary to take responsibility. I have listened carefully to the majority and the opposition. I note that three years ago, we adopted a coherent approach to pension reform. It is a very coherent approach. Firstly, we have provided scope for social dialogue with the actors. Mrs Kitir, we intend to do everything in our power to give the broadest possible support to this reform which is fundamental for the future. Second of all, that's not easy. It means we have to be a little brave. However, if we want to live happily ever after... If life expectancy has increased so dramatically in just a few years, in a generation - it is very impressive - thanks to advances in medicine, for example, who here believes that we can simply do nothing, not move, not make decisions without having a major incident in terms of funding social protections in the coming years? Not too much trouble on the numbers, Mrs. Kitir. In 1985, the pension budget was four times lower than it is today. Every month, there are thousands more pensioners who are going to live older and older, which makes me happy. Our duty, our responsibility, is to make decisions today! It would be so much easier to pretend that you don't see the stakes, that you don't see the challenge. But to do so would be irresponsible! We have chosen responsibility and coherence: more link between work and the amount of pension, harmonisation of schemes precisely to combat discrimination. We are strengthening, I repeat, the first pillar by working on its financing and we are opening the second pillar to everyone. We are putting an end to discrimination. Tomorrow, 500,000 workers will finally have access to a second pension pillar. This is a very clear message that we give for the future, the safety of our children and grandchildren! Mrs Fonck, a few words about people with disabilities. You're right. I believe that the honour of society is also to be fully mobilized for the support of the families concerned. I had the opportunity, a few weeks ago, to meet personally with members of the platform representing a number of associations. We're working on the subject, that's right. As you mentioned, there have been difficulties in managing the department's information technology. Every effort is made to resolve them. I have asked the Secretary of State to do everything possible to try to provide the necessary answers in this regard. We have also worked throughout the summer on a plan to better address concrete disability concerns. We will have the opportunity, I hope, to return to these matters in Parliament. I will share my experience on this subject. I think we also have to reason with the questions related to the price of love, with the allowances for people with disabilities, and see in a number of cases, where possible, how we can stimulate the employment of people with disabilities. It's also a call from the associations I met and heard. We will also pay attention to these issues. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, security and freedoms, we have unfortunately, in the past, had many opportunities to discuss them. We have had democratic debates on our democratic state, on fundamental freedoms in the fight against terror. We have also had the opportunity to go into more detail in the Justice and Home Affairs Committees on investment and strategic choices for the future. We have approved thousands of preventive and repressive measures, with the support of Parliament. There has been dramatic progress in a number of areas, but with the greatest modesty. I think we have had to learn the lessons of these threats against European countries, the lessons of these attacks which have so brutally and so painfully struck us. Again, with the necessary modesty and setback, we have considered that we need to see how we can continue to improve the legislative arrangements, even if everyone here is aware that it is not compensation that erases the grief of the victims' families. Ladies and gentlemen, you have been a number – and I am very pleased about that – to raise the issue of the investment pact. The investment pact is good, that is my strong conviction. It's now three years later. We have worked in recent months to prepare our investment pact. I really appreciate the constructive criticism we received from some of the opposition. We have received an alternative proposal from Mr Nollet, and we have looked at it in detail. It remains my strong belief that not investing means impoverishment. Don't invest means a weight for future generations. It is our responsibility to pursue a coherent policy, a coherent strategy. I hope that it will be possible to develop closer cooperation with the regions in the coming weeks and months. I have had the opportunity in recent weeks to have personal conversations with various actors in the Länder. My feelings are optimistic and positive. I am convinced that it will be possible with the various Parliaments to live up to our ambitions for investment on the digital agenda, on mobility, on the environment and energy. This is a link I want to make to the question of the energy pact. I will make it very clear that you have used a document that has not been validated in the Council of Ministers. It is a preparatory document, as there will probably be many others in such a file. I want to say in this forum – and my conviction on the subject has been strengthened in recent months – that the Paris agreements are extremely important for the future of the planet, for the future of humanity! My conviction is that at a time when the administration of an important country, the United States, is giving the message of questioning, we must more than ever show firmness, determination and try to put Europe in the cockpit of the regions of the world that consider the climate to be a vital issue for our fellow citizens and for future generations. I am very determined about that. The latest tragic disasters show that it is crucial to achieve more results as soon as possible. For example, it is a good thing that it has been possible in recent months to take a first step with an agreement on Burden Sharing, but that is not enough. We need to do more, do even better. In the coming months, in consultation with the Länder, on the basis of the federalism of cooperation, the aim is to examine what efforts can be made to achieve ambitious results.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u175	Mr Prime Minister, I would like to reply briefly, just on that point. I also appreciate that the timing of the reply is much better than last year. Among other things, we have come a long way over the last few days with regard to benefits, and I would like to thank you for that. There is one more point on which we should be clear today: what will we do to give substance to our climate ambition? A Dutch coalition agreement has just been concluded. For example, your colleague Rutte, with whom you have a great deal of contact, has committed himself to doing much more, perhaps not yet what we would do rather than what was agreed in Paris. For example, he promises to close the five Dutch coal plants. He decided that in the coalition agreement. He did not organize a survey among the Dutch to ask them whether or not they want to close the coal plants. That is what is on the table for the time being in the field of the Energy Pact. You have also been able to follow that up today, with the document referred to by Mr Nollet on the front page of De Standaard, and meanwhile there are also comments from Open Vld and CD&V who, together with us, say that it is crazy to organise a survey on this now, while that was already decided in 2003. So I would like to ask you about our climate ambition. We are not achieving the objectives of the Paris Agreement, and we should really be making progress. Do you hold on to the commitment? This is very important, also for the outside world, for investors, who we hope will convince together to invest in renewable energy. Is the core exit confirmed, yes or no? We do not need to carry out a survey on this at the moment. I expect a clear answer on that. This is very important for investment, an approach in which we can find each other in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u176	I want to be very transparent. Over the last few weeks, I have had the opportunity to have discussions with a number of Prime Ministers on the Energy Pact. I intend to agree as soon as possible, hopefully before the end of this year, on a clear commitment in the Conciliation Committee. This means that in my view an energy pact is not just a determination, it is not just a diagnosis. A diagnosis is interesting, but not enough. That is why I am determined to play my full part in giving a boost to a political decision with the Länder on this matter. The federal government is working hard on a framework for supporting renewable energy, for example offshore wind farms. Given the division of powers in our country, the role of the Länder is very important. So we will have a dialogue. I'm not going to improvise in that area. In the next few months, we will have to come to a clear arbitration. We will.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u177	I believe that we are making progress in the debates, not in terms of presence but in terms of level. We still have a different conviction, but I also see things evolving in the discourse, which I welcome. In relation to the core trip, I think that the same signals are coming from the majority today, too, that you will not be able to conclude a State of the Union 2017 with a we-will-see. It is true that solutions can be found mainly at regional level. So yes, there is a lot of need for federalism cooperation. In order to make room for these solutions, we need a federal government that is at last 100% clear about that nuclear trip. You're not so far. I would like to ask you again to be clear about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u178	I'll be more specific. I think that, within the framework of the necessary dialogue with the Länder, we should clarify this. I have an opinion on that. I have a clear answer in my head. In the first instance, within the framework of consultation with the Länder, it is necessary to clarify this. I repeat that I believe that we should make clear choices over the next two to three months and make arbitration. Now, Mr President, I would like to touch on a final issue that has been raised by several colleagues, that of mobility. In recent hours, we have once again seen great difficulties in this area. Several of you have highlighted the impact of inadequate management of this issue, as well as a lack of coordination, whether it be the environment, for example fine particles - as you have pointed out, Mr Nollet - or the competitiveness of companies. I believe that, as with the energy issue, we must, in the coming months, redouble our efforts, our willingness, our dialogue and our political determination with the regional - but also our local - entities to see how we can make progress in this area. I know we'll be waiting. You know that under the Multiannual Investment Plan (MIP), for which regional funding will be possible, we will promote complementarities and coordination with federated entities. As I have said, I hope that in this second half of the legislature we can further strengthen the political role - in the noble sense of the term - of coordinating the concertation committee with a view to making progress on these issues. That is how I indicated the decision to convene an exceptional thematic committee on mobility very quickly, to organise the way to work more hand in hand and to develop common strategies in terms of public transport, but also to take digitisation into account better. The aim is to try to provide more satisfactory answers than they currently are. I conclude, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I tried to show you that this government and this majority made a choice three years ago: to mobilize us on economic development, social cohesion, on work for security, because it is fundamental freedoms for our citizens. Three years later, we try modestly and lucidly to see what the road is. Is everything perfect? No. Is there still a lot of work left? Yes. Are the positive indicators of job creation, investment and business creation sufficiently reflected in the daily feelings of our citizens? No, not yet. We must remain mobilized to amplify reforms and decisions in order to help our country meet the challenges of this century. My conviction is that we will not do this by adopting the solutions of the past, but that we must consider them to transform them into opportunities, opportunities to consolidate and arm our society to meet these demands. Our country is not an island in the middle of the world. My conviction is that we must fully assume our responsibility at European and international level. I believe that I have sent a clear message about our vision of the future of the European Union. We are convinced that in the coming years it will be crucial for European leaders to give more concrete and clear signals for greater security, investment and economic development in Europe. We try to get results every day. In this spirit, we are candidates for a seat on the United Nations Security Council, to share this conviction of dialogue, multilateralism and cooperation. The world is changing. In this transformation, we see opportunities for progress. Reform for more jobs, reform for more purchasing power, reform for a stronger society, that's our ambition, that's the framework we've set. We will hold on until the end of the legislature. [[Applause on the benches of the majority]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip189x.u179	Thank you, Prime Minister. Do colleagues wish to reply? I don't see anyone. Do I understand correctly that the thematic discussion will take place at another time, on the basis of the specific dossiers? As I understand it, there is no request for a second round of thematic debates. In that case, this is the end of the sitting. Thank you all. I have to tell you that tomorrow morning you will receive another text message on this. The sitting can only begin with the vote of confidence at 15.15 p.m. Good night. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 12 October 2017 at 3.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 12 October 2017 at 3.15 p.m.
