ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u2	The general discussion has resumed. The general discussion was resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u3	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Minister Jambon presented the text in an introductory statement on the extension of the right to vote of Belgians residing abroad for the elections of the parliaments of the federated entities, which he justifies by the fact that a democratic society requires that any Belgian person, including residing abroad, be able to exercise his duty to vote. It links with teaching, culture, business, science or other international skills. The Minister also announced that this special legislation should be followed by further legislative steps to implement and implement the legislation for all federated entities. With regard to the general discussion, it was Mr Vuye, of the Vuye&Wouters Group, who introduced the general discussion by boasting, which did not fail to question some members, the sixth reform of the State, or in any case a very small part of it, which improved the application for the federal elections of the vote of Belgians residing abroad. Mr. Vuye, who obviously has time to devote himself to good readings, stressed a recent reading of a biography of Mr. Elio Di Rupo by journalist Francis Van de Woestyne, who reveals to what extent, according to the author, the question of the voting rights of Belgians established abroad obsessed the president of the Socialist Party, "fearing that the low score of the PS in the votes of Belgians abroad harms his party's dominant position". As far as the N-VA is concerned, because Mr. Vuye also spoke about his former party, this party expressed at the same time, by the voice of Mr. In particular, Ben Weyts, "the favourable side to extending the right to vote to elections for the Communities and Regions, but through constitutive autonomy", is in line with what Mr Vuye said in committee. "The draft special law under consideration", he said, "has therefore followed a completely different path", which he described as "typically Belgian". He had therefore tabled, together with Mrs Wouters, an amendment to that effect. Mr. Top, from sp.a., sought clarification on technical aspects of the file. He referred to the Council of State as a first step and as a second step, which was quite consistent. He finally spoke of the substance of the project, telling us that, according to Sp.a and the speaker, he understood the arguments in favour of the participation of Belgians residing abroad in the federal elections as well as in the elections for the European Parliament, but that he was much more sceptical about their participation in the elections for the parliaments of the Communities and the Regions. Mr. Van Biesen, of Open Vld, said he was a fierce supporter of the vote of Belgians residing abroad, including for the elections of the Communities and Regions. Mr. Miller has opioidated and has also supported the extension of this right to vote. It has established the link with the competences, which it knows well, of the Communities and the Regions. He cited references to foreign trade, cultural policy, education and stressed that all these skills also deserved a translation through the expression of a vote. I have had the pleasure and the happiness – which is not always compatible – of supporting the bill on behalf of the Ecolo-Groen Group, in that it actually aims to extend this right to vote, and I have stressed that, since the sixth reform of the State, the powers of the Regions and the Communities have been increased, this was such as to justify the support of the Ecolo-Groen Group for this historic extension of the right to vote. Ms Ben Hamou, for the PS, said that "in terms of principles, any extension of the vote should be welcomed", but then she recalled, during the discussion, the comments already made by the Council of State. Given the late hour, I will summarize them, but she explained them very well in the full report that is available on the House's website. Nevertheless, she said that she did not perceive well, even after the sixth reform of the State, how the powers of the Communities and the Regions could have an impact on Belgians living abroad. Since the powers of the federated entities were essentially local, it considered that, depending on the relationship to the territory, the granting of the right to vote was not obvious. She pointed out that for the PS, rather than looking at the right to vote of Belgians residing abroad, some of whom have never resided in Belgium and will not reside in Belgium, one should rather look at the right to vote of foreigners established in Belgium for the elections of the parliaments of the Communities and the Regions. Mr. Hendrik Bogaert, on behalf of the CD&V, considered, in terms of principles, that the nationality of a State confers on the national of that State a set of rights and obligations. In an excellent demonstration, he justified his party's willingness to support this principle of extending the right to vote. In the form of a reply, Mr Vuye recalled that, according to him, the sixth reform of the State had made only one change in the right of Belgians to vote abroad. But he did point it out, which is still quite historical. Furthermore, replying to the N-VA in a way, he pointed out that the Flemish Parliament's resolution was not respected. In order not to be too mean to your former partner, I am not going to explain to you all the reasons; this is in the report. At the end of the general discussion, Minister Jambon, in his response, pointed out that this bill responded to a request made for several years; however, the constitutive autonomy option claimed by Mr. Vuye required a two-thirds majority, which was impossible to find. With regard to a second opinion of the Council of State, Mr Jambon pointed out that the other texts that would follow would be submitted to the Council of State. Colleagues, at the end of the general discussion, we discussed the articles and the votes. The first article was adopted by 11 votes and 1 abstention, but it is the constitutional basis. On Articles 2 to 10, Mr Vuye and Mrs Wouters tabled an amendment, which I have already summarized and which I will therefore not recall. It was not a complete success, as the amendment was rejected by 10 votes and supported by 2 abstentions – since you did not have the right to vote. Finally, Articles 2 to 10 were successively adopted by 11 votes and 1 abstention. I would add that technical corrections have been made. On the final vote, Mr President, the whole of this corrected special bill was adopted by 11 votes with 1 abstention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u4	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, at a time when this democracy, to which we are all very attached, is experiencing difficult times, this debate on the bill presented by the government seems all the more important to me. Important in itself, important for our compatriots, important also for the example that I hope we will show this evening by expanding the democratic field of the right to vote. Much has been done since 1999, when only eighteen expatriates had been able to vote for the parliamentary elections. In the last elections in 2014, ladies and gentlemen, they were nearly 128,954 Belgians abroad who voluntarily registered on the electoral lists. This figure is impressive when we know that, at the end of 2016, 442 189 Belgians were registered abroad. This represents one in twenty Belgians who live abroad. Every year, ladies and gentlemen, I remind you, about 35,000 Belgians go to live in other countries, for work, for family reasons or to have a little more sunshine, and we understand them. But, dare I say, they take with them everything that connects them to our country. The first destination of these people remains France with 126 000 Belgian residents and this number is expected to continue to grow in the future. Expatriates continue to be interested in the politics of our country and allow me to stress that, in the troubled times we are experiencing, all democratic political formations should rejoice at the maintenance of this strong citizen bond and political awareness for our country and for the future of our country. I would not say that Belgians from abroad are "our best ambassadors" so as not to have problems with the diplomatic corps, but they are in any case excellent ambassadors. They represent our expertise abroad. All the economic, foreign trade missions organised by the Federal or the Regions insist on this know-how of the Belgians. Expatriation should therefore not be a cause for a ban on voting, but a principle of equality should be established between all Belgians, whether they reside in Belgium or not. Out of respect for this equality among all Belgians, the extension of the right to vote in regional elections is black and white in the agreement of this government, as well as the administrative simplification of this vote and the extension of the right to vote in European elections for Belgian expatriates outside the European Union. We voted for this project several weeks ago. Today, we have the opportunity to vote on the special bill that regulates fundamental points such as voter status, the criteria for joining municipalities, the obligation to vote for Belgians abroad. In the near future, an ordinary law regulating the secondary aspects of voting and an amendment to the Act of 6 July 1990 regulating the procedure for the election of the Parliament of the German-speaking Community will follow. Among the arguments put forward against this bill is that expatriates would not be interested or affected by the policies of the federated entities. The figures show the opposite. That was said in committee. Eighteen electors in 1999 were already 114,000 in 2003 and nearly 125,000 in 2014 to register.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u5	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u6	Mr Lutgen, if I were you, I wouldn't bring her back too much! Frankly, you are never seen on any debate and your party, for such an important issue, was not even in committee. So, if you're laughing next to me to get me out of my way, that's a bit of a limit! This impressive participation figure is the best answer...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u7	Mr. Miller, I have to interrupt you because of a personal fact. Mr Lutgen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u8	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Miller, take your breath and drink a good sip of water, it'll do you good. Indeed, there was no one in committee because there is another commission dedicated to Kazakhgate - and there may be Belgians voting in Kazakhstan thanks to you - and in which Mr Delperee participated. We have always been in favour of voting by Belgians abroad. We simply propose that there be a stronger and more direct representation. The group leader will express this earlier: a strong link with a representative in this assembly who will be the direct link with the Belgians abroad. It's much better for them. And this will make it possible to have substantive discussions here on the concerns of Belgians abroad. We are therefore in favour of it in this House, and we will be in the Walloon Parliament, the Brussels Parliament and the Flemish Parliament tomorrow. Mr. Miller, now that you've taken your breath, take your peace of mind. Let me tell you that the MR often appeals to you when he's in trouble and you're likely to be seen a lot in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u9	Mr Lutgen, if I answered you a little nervously, it is simply because it is a bit unpleasant to see someone sneeze on the side when we are trying to explain something. But there it is, it happens! That's how it is! Having said that, I do represent a "little something" in my party and I am very, very proud of it. This is the result of more than twenty years of intensive work in the service of the Liberal project, which I forbid you to laugh at. And I do not stand up to the attacks that you try to carry out all the time by mixing the work of one committee with that of another which deals with important institutional matters and in which you did not participate. You weren't there. Your party was not present, Mr Lutgen! He therefore did not consider it important to take a decision on the Belgian vote abroad. You're the one who turned away from our compatriots, Mr. Lutgen.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u10	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u11	Every time I say something, you say you've never seen this, Mrs. Fonck.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u12	Mr Miller, I did not know that liberalism was the rule of prohibition. Now there's even a ban on laughter! That is what your liberalism has become! Frankly, I feel sorry for you. It's good to laugh! So don't hesitate to laugh from time to time and even show self-destruct. It feels good, believe it! And the ban is of no use whatsoever. I have respect for you, for your journey, for your defence of liberalism. I don't share your convictions. I've got more. That's quite respectable. But don't pour in the ban. There's nothing worse than that. We propose that you find, in a constructive dialogue, a solution to strengthen the vote of Belgians abroad and their representation. The only complaint you can make is that you didn't have that good idea before us, but it's not very serious, Mr. Miller. This happens from time to time and will happen again.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u13	Mr Lutgen, we'll talk about your idea again. Mr President, I withdraw the word "prohibition", which was a little excessive.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u14	Mr President, I would like to explain why the CDH was not present in the Committee on Institutions and the Revision of the Constitution. Why, Mr. Ducrame? Quite simply, because, all day long, without interruption, I sat on the Kazakhgate committee of inquiry, when I thought I could go mid-day to the other committee. The second reason is more political. A few months ago, we were confronted with another bill, concerning the right of Belgians to vote in the European elections. Remember, remember, remember, remember, There were some problems with this text, particularly with regard to the criteria for joining Belgian municipalities. I spoke in committee, Minister. Clearly, my views were widely shared by members. Some of them are here. What did the minister say at that time? "Yes, there is a problem, but still vote the text. I will offer you a compromise solution in a public meeting!" I've been naive, too. We voted the text, and what happened? In plenary, the minister announced that the majority was opposed to any change. What, in this case, is the point of going to committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u15	Mr Delperee, I had an unfortunate word; I apologized. I think you, for your part, have had a bit of annoyance. Someone like you, a professor of constitutional law, an authority in our country – like Mr. Vuye – who exclaims in the House: "What is the point of going to the Committee on Institutional Reforms?" Will have trouble explaining it to his students! Since 2003, colleagues...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u16	Mr Miller, just a moment: Mr Delperée would like to reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u17	Mr Miller, I am simply saying that the Minister of the Interior, with regard to the extension of the voting rights of Belgians residing abroad in the European elections, misled the members of the committee. It's a fact, it's a reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u18	I assume that the Minister will respond to your intervention. So I'm going back to the thread of my presentation. I don't know if you remember what I was saying. Otherwise, I can do it again. I was going to explain that, since 2003, Belgians living abroad can take part in the election of the federal parliament. It is therefore essential – and this is what we think about our political formation, the MR, which has submitted several projects in this direction – that they also be able to vote and sanction the policies put in place in the Regions and the Communities. This is all the more desirable and necessary because, following the latest reforms of the State, the Regions have acquired increasingly important competences. You all know that. It is normal for each Belgian to be able to give its opinion on policies in the fields of employment, foreign trade, economics, taxation, health care, family allowances and education and culture. These are skills that are of interest to everyone. Almost all European countries, despite different political traditions and specific political systems, have put in place the vote of their foreign nationals. It is true that some countries that have a different tradition, a much more centralized tradition, such as France, have put in place mechanisms whereby Members are directly appointed by nationals living abroad. But the mechanism does not apply or would not apply easily to our federal state because we have put in place a federal system, which is based on the transfer of powers to the Communities and the Regions. This means that in France, if you have representatives of the French abroad, they participate in the work of an assembly that gathers all the skills. The difficulty here is that we split. I'm a regionalist. I don't mind at all. We do not think that this is a good system, with a small difficulty due to the proposal which will be presented to us by the CDH and which we have become aware of late, since since the time when the committee's work took place, there has been no more declaration by the CDH. We find one...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u19	In this respect, Mr Miller, if I may, very kindly, do you know of a government that, for a vote requiring a special two-thirds majority plus a simple majority in each linguistic group, tables a project and moves forward without even discussing, beyond the division of majority and opposition, with the political groups? Frankly, come here to play the verse of "you didn't say anything", it's still mad! As a government first, because it is a bill, but also as group leaders of the majority, it was obviously and singularly - if I may say so, the Prime Minister's party - your direct responsibility ahead of the tabling of this text in Parliament and your role was to be able to work between majority and opposition. You didn't do that! Mr. Ducrame got in touch with me a week ago! And then, all of a sudden, it was necessary, in two strokes to spoon pot, to decide and obey the orders! When you want a special majority, you work in this direction. It is not simply a question of running with a manu militari text and imposing a vote on others. Yes, we are in favour of voting by Belgians abroad, but there are also other arrangements.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u20	Show him in that case! That's where you're no longer credible! Mr Cheron is right!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u21	You did not agree on the text. I heard you praising the federated entities. Have you taken the trouble of consulting with them? This text directly concerns them and you have absolutely no interest in it. You didn't bother to consult with the main stakeholders. In terms of technique, agreement, democracy, for a text which concerns federated entities and which must unite beyond the majority-opposition divide, you have chosen an impossible path: sweeping away from the back of the hand both the opposition and the federated entities.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u22	Mrs. Fonck, you are boundless. I am not going to insult you to publish our SMS exchanges concerning a number of contacts that we both had and that were also taken with your political secretary. You turned around the pot to finally, a few hours before the votes, get out of your hat the cdH proposal. Of course, the CDH is interested in the Belgian vote abroad, so interested that its representatives were not even present at the debate in committee, Mr Miller recalled. The PS, on the other hand, had a deputy present. And this Socialist MP left at the time of the vote. But you! Organize your group! We know that there are a number of committees that need to be attended, but if you are interested in Belgians from abroad, manage as a group leader, Mrs Fonck, to have a member of the CDH present to debate in committee, to make a number of proposals, to table a number of amendments.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u23	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u24	If you don't mind, I'd like to go to the end of my speech. We had opened the door; you shut it to our face. The truth is, you're like some socialists in the past. They didn't want to give women the right to vote, because they thought they would vote for their parish priest. You think Belgians abroad won't vote for the CDH. Therefore, you do not want to grant Belgians abroad the right to vote in regional elections so that Walloons, Brusselsers and Flemish people abroad can also express themselves on matters that affect them every day.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u25	Mr President, I will speak earlier on and perhaps take the opportunity to respond to what I have just heard about the women's vote – me, woman, group leader of my party. I would just like to address Mrs Catherine Fonck. I don't want to know what text messages you've exchanged. I'm in favour of privacy. I don't want to know. I understand your anger, Mrs. Fonck. You're right. Normally, when we want to pass a law, especially a law with a special majority, we implement all possible consultations so that it passes. But could I tell you, Mrs. Fonck, that you still have to be happy. He contacted you, I didn't. A week ago, three days ago, yesterday, today, no consultation with the largest Francophone group in this Parliament. [[Brouhahaha]] Is it by shyness? Is it out of contempt? I don't know! All I know is that it does not serve the cause of a bill that would have deserved good consultation and for which agreements were possible. Mr. Ducarme, you've ruined your work. It is the Belgians living abroad who are the first victims of your bad work of majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u26	Mr President, I come back to the subject before us.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u27	Excuse me, Mr. Miller. I didn't see Mr. Vuye.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u28	Mr President, allow me to interrupt. And no, Mr Calvo, I didn't get a text. Mr Delpérée has just raised a point which is very close to my heart as a professor of Constitutional Law. He said there was no point in attending committee meetings. Mr Ducarme, on the other hand, believes that it is necessary to attend committee meetings because there is a possibility of consultation and a debate. Well, I have no choice but to agree with Mr Delpérée for 100 percent. I was at that committee meeting. Mrs Wouters and I have tabled amendments. The debate with the Minister has been limited to the following answer: Mr Vuye, every animal is happy; the text is adopted here today. In other words, Mr Delpérée is absolutely right, there is no point in taking part in committee work in this way. I fully support him in that regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u29	It still seems to me that the work in committee is important in this House. Debates, amendments, whether rejected or not, are part of our parliamentary system. As I said earlier, our democracy is currently experiencing somewhat difficult times. The message that I will simply deliver is that we need to be very careful with statements that say, "We are no longer going to committee, it's no use". On the part of honourable officials as well as professors of constitutional law, I find this somewhat risky. For the rest, I await Mrs Fonck's statement explaining the system that the CDH is proposing, and we will discuss it. Mrs Fonck, it seems to me that you have already understood that you will withdraw a representative, a Walloon Member, from the 75 members. You subtract him from the Walloons' choice. Your system seems a little difficult, but I'll hear your explanations and we'll see. Mr Lutgen, be careful. Your system in which someone is designated, like that, from abroad, is problematic in relation to the current composition of the Walloon Parliament. For the rest, there was a bit of annoyance. I have contributed to it myself and I regret it. Nevertheless, the substance of the bill is still extremely important. To say that we were not in committee, that we did not do this and that those who would have misorganized the work would be responsible for the fact that Belgians abroad would not get that right to vote for the federated entities. It's a bit, as they say in Walloon, to snatch the batch of pourcia. Why? Because, basically, what is at stake is the right of our compatriots abroad, that is, Flemish abroad, Walloon abroad, Brusselsish abroad, and German-speaking abroad. I quoted them earlier, too, but there is still something to be settled in the text for them. The aim is to enable them to express their views on policies. The powers which, since the sixth century of the State, are those of the Communities and the Regions are extremely important. The failure to grant Belgians abroad the right to vote for the elections of federated entities is to set aside the importance of the direct election of federated entities. Mr Maingain, I turned to you simply because you seemed calmer than the others. I don't dare look anywhere else.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u30	I thank Mr. Miller for speaking to my personal wisdom as I am calmer. I have no doubt that he will listen carefully to the arguments that I will put forward earlier. I am not insensitive to some of his arguments, but there are some clarifications that should be made. I'll tell him more in a few moments.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u31	Mr Maingain, you can acknowledge that, although I do not always intervene, I listen to all the debates and I know very well how the ideas are going. To return to what I was saying, the direct election of the regional deputies is not nothing. It was a change in the Belgian political system. If we set aside the right of Belgians to vote abroad, it is tantamount to considering that these assemblies are less important. Now, the skills. Our system has a characteristic in comparison to other federal states: we are the only federal state that grants a right of political action outside our federated entities. It's not nothing. It's still extremely important.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u32	I hear your enthusiasm to defend Belgians' right to vote abroad and you have just talked about the federated entities. What is your view on Belgian voting rights in Linkebeek?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u33	Mr President, if you want to give the floor to Mr Damien Thiéry, he will respond. We have political action in this area. That's a suggestion I'm making to Mr. President. I'm not taking his place.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u34	Mr Thiéry, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u35	Mr President, the question is extremely interesting, of course! I think, however, that we in this House should avoid transposing a problem which is a "loco-regional" problem to the federal government.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u36	So I'm going back to the thread of my presentation before Mr Devin's speech. We had remained at the importance of direct election. The importance of the powers of the federated entities, as we have organized them with successive reforms of the state, but also the importance of this characteristic which makes us the only federal state in which federated and regional entities have a foreign policy. That's an argument that's hard to circumvent. How can we, dear friends of the Socialist Party and of the CDH, consider that Belgians abroad should not have the right to vote for regional and Community elections, whereas these federated entities have foreign political action in the field of foreign trade, in the field of arms exports, in the field of culture, in the distribution of waves, etc.- Is that what you're saying? I could give you a lot of examples. All these elements are important. They are fundamental for Belgians who are abroad. When RTBF, for example, decides to delete an international radio station, it affects Belgians abroad. I take another example, ladies and gentlemen. How can you feel that granting Belgians the right to vote abroad for the regional elections is a kind of lubi to which the MR is attached? These are the arguments that you have raised so far, but perhaps you will change them? How do you explain that Walloon Minister-President Magnette, based on the powers given to him by the reform of the state, was able to speak to the whole world by criticising CETA?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u37	And he did the right thing!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u38	We're not going to fight back on the bottom. I understand that you applaud him, but I am not sure that you will applaud his latest statements about all the countries that have to leave the European Union. The words he made are outrageous! In any case, he spoke to the world about a jurisdiction that was his, because he is the minister-president of the Walloon government. It's a regional competence. I am proud that our regions have such a system, but we must give Belgians abroad the right to vote so that they can judge the policies that are being carried out in regional and Community entities. That is why I am very pleased to have heard Mr Cheron and the representatives of Ecolo-Groen say that they share this vision of a federal state in which the federated entities must carry out policies of magnitude, on which Belgians abroad must exercise a right of scrutiny. In conclusion, Mr President, what is at stake here is a conception of our federal state, but also of the federated entities. I think it's got to be open. When I hear the arguments of the opponents of the vote of Belgians abroad in this field, I have the feeling that they defend a narrow vision of these entities. It is a closed conception of Brussels, Flanders and Wallonia that they propose! Moreover, it does not correspond to what the Socialist Walloon and cdH elected representatives defend. I know them for having been with them for a long time. They also defend an entity in which they believe. Mrs Fonck, you and I have one thing in common – and it's the only one. You, like me, have served as a minister in the Wallonia-Brussels Federation. We were not in the same government, so we were fighting at the time, but that's something else. Mrs Fonck, sincerely, this federated entity, the Wallonia-Brussels Federation, with its important skills for our fellow citizens, do you not feel the need for it to be able to live up to its skills, to be able to develop and assert them? If we take back the Belgians' right to vote abroad, what we do is simply say to our Regions and our Communities: "You are small! Take care of your small business; do not come to meddle in important politics." And that, Mr. Magnette doesn't want to. I can read Mr. Magnette's statements too, Mrs. Onkelinx. What I am asking you, ladies and gentlemen, is to think carefully about the vote you are going to vote on. I believe that it is possible to reach agreement on the defence of federated entities and on the granting of the right to vote to Belgians residing abroad. We will vote. I know one thing: we're going to count. Those who do not vote for this bill will have a responsibility to all our compatriots abroad!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u39	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, far from Mr Miller's great flights, I would like to calmly explain the Socialist Party's position on an essential issue. This issue is all the more important in view of the fact that, in order to be able to impose a change in the current situation, a special vote is required. Why? Because we are seeking the greatest possible consensus among the elected representatives of the nation to bring about new rights. I am not taking this debate lightly, Mr Miller. And I don't just want to do sleeve effects. Is this an easy debate? Yes and no. It's normal for us to be able to ask ourselves questions. For example, in the PS, some might have wondered if it was interesting for Belgians living abroad to vote for representatives of the Regions, Regions that have much more responsibilities related to everyday life in the territory. That is indeed a question that could be asked. But we've solved the problem. Within the PS, we believe that this is of great importance because the Region exceeds the territorial powers. The Region is an essential institutional element of Belgium. I'll give you an example. Since we talked about the Walloon Region, earlier, I will talk about the Brussels Region. It is, in my view, important that Belgians living abroad can, by their vote, support the Brussels-Capital Region that some of you do not support. We have talked about this issue and we believe that Belgians living abroad should have their say in the defence of our institutions and in particular in the defence of our regions. On the other hand, other elements have occupied us, Mr. Cheron. In particular, we said that the vote of Belgians from abroad for the Regions should be debated at the same time, for some of us, that the right to vote of residents, who do not have Belgian nationality and live in our regions, pay their taxes, are interested in the question of employment, the discrimination they are sometimes victims of, on the issues of cleanliness and mobility. This is an important debate. And when, at the PS level, we debate it, it's not negligible. But we said to ourselves that, of course, we will take this claim, but that we will not take Belgians living abroad hostage, because we do not have a majority at the moment that will allow this extension of voting. It therefore remains to be seen how to organise the right to vote of Belgians from abroad for the regional elections. I said earlier that your majority did not have the simple decency to tell us about it, while we are seeking, by a special majority vote, to have a great consensus among the elected representatives of the nation. Not a word, nothing, not a contact, not a text. I find this lamentable. On the other hand, I am one of those who are interested in the regional fact. Since the beginning of my political life, I have been working in a federal body. But I believe that the regional fact is extremely important, essential to the institutional structure of our country. And yet, despite the great statements of those who sometimes say "the Regions above all", you have not had the decency to discuss, to coordinate with the Regions. Have you had the decency to question the Ministers-Presidents of the Regions once, through a letter, a contact or a concertation committee, when it concerns them at least as much as we do? Nothing, not a word. No context. The Regions have been completely neglected. I don't accept. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u40	In Flanders, I don't know. But as far as the Walloon Region and the Brussels-Capital Region are concerned, there has not been a single contact. These two regions, now in government, including the Brussels-Capital Region, where members of your majority sit, have called for a dialogue. Do you not think that this is the least of all, a dialogue with the Regions on a subject that concerns them? That's what we're asking. We need to talk to the Regions and agree on the best ways of representing Belgians living abroad for the regional elections. Ladies and gentlemen, if you keep the vote today, we will vote against it and we hope that you will come back soon, after consultation with us and the Regions, so that, finally, the Belgians' right to vote abroad for the regional elections will be a reality, which will be applauded by consensus, and if possible by all the elected representatives of this nation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u41	Mr President, Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, the nationality of a citizen determines the right of that citizen to vote. Of course, there are fundamental rights that have been granted to every human being on this planet. Of course, a personalist can only express his indelible belief that every human being is equal in every debate. In times of America first and Russia first, we will continue to argue that there is also a world community that every human being wherever born has inalienable rights. However, the nationality of a citizen determines the right to vote and for us the right to vote of that citizen in respect of the country which has granted that nationality. In this sense, it is logical that Belgians should be given the right to vote even if they are abroad. In this sense, it would be logical not to grant voting rights to non-Belgen who are in Belgium. There's an exception to that. European citizens have municipal voting rights in Belgium under conditions. This exception to the rule can be justified because it is reciprocal and because Europe is, in a sense, a nationality, at least in the belief of our group. Our fundamental belief in European unity over division, in a European community of states with culture, Christian roots, in a common acceptance of a piece of world leadership and responsibility will never be lost. Some people are on the wrong side of emancipation in this debate. The Belgians abroad also have the right to make their voice heard about land-related and personal matters. After all, doesn't a couple who are temporarily abroad have an interest in their children's later well-educated education? Do not representatives of Belgian companies, cultural and other institutions have an interest in ensuring that there are good rest homes, a safe road network, a forward-looking energy policy? Some are on the wrong side of emancipation in this debate and we cannot accept their motives. That is what we are in favour of, especially in these politically turbulent times. If some want to name fear but also stir it up, then we will ensure reasonableness. If some argue for freedom but forget the weak, then we will ensure justice. If some want to understand the people but, above all, look after them, then we will provide leadership and courage. Therefore, voting is an obvious choice in these times, as it buffers us for the idea that a highly motivated minority takes over the country and does not allow reasonableness, justice and courage. Vote is therefore a basic duty of nationality which must lead to a better quality of democracy. The question is whether the present proposal will jeopardise the obligation to vote. Technically speaking, that is not the case, because everyone who is registered must vote as well. However, absenteeism among Belgians abroad is very great among voters who had given up voting by letter. In 2003 it was 34 %, in 2007 it was 30 %, in 2010 it was 37 % and in 2014 it was 35 %. Additional measures are therefore appropriate. Logically and securityally one should always register as a Belgian abroad, but there is no reasonable argument to say that the proposal would overrule the discussion in favour of voting rights rather than compulsory voting. I decide. We look forward to the right to vote for Belgians abroad. We support the design enthusiastically and greet all those who represent us abroad, but who are with us with their hearts, with admiration and gratitude.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u42	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, as we have said and said, we have also proved by means of a vote: we are in favour of the vote of the Belgians abroad. We had already voted in favour of the Belgian vote in the federal elections. The introduction of the same right to vote for regional elections is, it is true, within the competence of the special federal legislature. It's neither disputed nor questionable. Only regional parliaments are, of course, directly concerned and therefore the functioning of the federated entities. In our view, that is why the passage of the bill under discussion cannot be conceived without dialogue with the entities concerned. Dear Mr. Miller, you recalled earlier that we had one thing in common. And you're absolutely right. We are equally attached, beyond our respective paths, to the Wallonia-Brussels Federation. However, the big difference between us is how you view federated entities. As I have just said, this vote concerns them directly. Your attitude, your choice, that of the government, is part of a paternalistic tutelage of the federal on the Regions, according to which it would decide alone without even bothering to contact the main interested ones. No, you didn't consult them! Mr Ducrame, you sent me a text message, but you didn't even bother sending one to the actors of the federated entities. It is not a bill, but a bill that is defended by the Minister of the Interior, but also by the Minister of Foreign Affairs. It was then validated by the Prime Minister. No doubt the Minister of the Interior has made contact with the Minister-President of the Flemish Region, but in any case, what I can tell you is that neither the Prime Minister nor the Minister for Foreign Affairs have bothered to contact the federated entities. You see, Mr. Miller, this is the difference between you and us: this paternalistic attitude, which is to decide for others in the federal government, without even seeing if we can work on this project together and while many questions concern them, including in the modalities. No, you've decided to go there by riding alone and considering them as little ones whose choice, arguments, stakes, obviously, escape them completely.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u43	In fact, Mrs Fonck, with this kind of friendship that binds us, given that we have both had the same responsibilities within the Wallonia-Brussels Federation, and with all due respect for you, I hear your arguments and I hear how your shoes scream around the pot to try to find elements that show that we would have another approach. Mrs Fonck, the only way to respect the federated entities today, when we are gathered in this House, is to vote for the right of Belgians from abroad to vote for federated entities. All you can say is excuses, half excuses, quarter excuses to show that you do not want this vote. Then I come to another aspect. Why don't you want this vote? I can also recall elements of the past and perhaps say so in a more understandable way for everyone, because, since 2004, Mrs Fonck, your party has been leading the federated entities with the results we see today: difficulties in Wallonia, a Wallonia-Brussels Federation that is not even able to develop a teaching project. That's what you're protecting! This is your lack of confidence in the governments of the federated entities!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u44	Mr. Miller, I'll take your words back. The only way to respect the federated entities is to consult with them and to associate them closely with what concerns them; the only way to respect federated entities is to respect them all at once. In this regard, Mr. Miller, your attitude is frankly incomprehensible, because I thought you knew what a partner was right about – because the federated entities are also partners. You didn't do that. If you want us to start discussing the pact of teaching and the excellence of teaching, it is with pleasure. What's bothering you? Is there a participatory process that respects teachers? That we want to dare to question each other in order to move the students forward? [[Protests]] Mr President, a small blow of mallet would not be superfluous to calm the hustle and bustle. Mr. Miller, this participatory process with the entire teaching world and with the parents is a problem for you around the corner, isn't it? We're proud of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u45	What really bothers me in the Wallonia-Brussels Federation is not the participatory debate; what bothers me - and that is why I am also defending the Belgians' right to vote abroad - is that for a matter as important as education, for children, for the future, there is a whole section of politics that your party, which is responsible for it, is not able to achieve. You want arguments? Even in a commission of inquiry into the attacks, the government of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation was pointed out for its inability to respond to the difficulties of the Muslim community. Do you want any other arguments? I can spend the whole night there.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u46	I suggest we go back to our sheep.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u47	Mr President, do you not believe that your responsibility, your task is to ensure respect for the division of powers? We are not here to discuss the responsibilities of the Flemish Region, the French Community or the German-speaking Community. These issues are out of debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u48	Mr. Delperée, that's why I asked that we go back to the bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u49	[[....]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u50	Mr Cheron, don't worry, your turn will come. Mr. Miller, I understand you're embarrassed at the corners. In fact, on this aspect, not having taken the trouble of consulting the federated entities, it is also necessary to recognise here, before the whole Chamber, that the consultations have undoubtedly taken place with Flanders and that, as far as Francophones are concerned, you have decided to disregard all respect for the federated entities. So I understand that you are now trying to address another 45,000 issues. But you are coming with a bill by a Prime Minister, a Francophone Minister of External Relations and a Minister of the Interior. If I were you, I'd be ashamed that I didn't even take the time to reach a consensus. Of course, there's the story of Mr. Ducarme's text messages. If you wish, we can publish them. I didn't know it was via text. This must be in the style of this government, which is not the king of concertation, but rather the king of unilateral decision-making. Anyway, I understand that you're embarrassed at the corners. Of which act!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u51	Mr President, Madam Group Leader, I am a little surprised to hear you talk so much about consultation today. Exactly nine days ago, in the Social Affairs Committee, I spoke to you about this project. What was your answer? "Concertation? No. What do you give in return?" Two days later, in the Chamber, at the end of the sitting, I spoke about it to your best opponent in your group – we will guess who it is. I asked, "What do you think about the problem of the right to vote?" This eminent teacher, of whom I am proud to have been the student, told me: "But there is no problem. It's in our program. But I would remind you that we need something in return." And the professor, whom I highly value, said to me: "I have, for a very long time, a whole series of proposals that are waiting for the Constitutional Review Committee." I said, "Submit them to us, we can always discuss them." I swear to you, these two interviews took place like this. So today, hearing you say the word "concertation" makes me laugh!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u52	When you don't have a lot of arguments, you plead the false that you present as true. Again, the big difference between you and us is that we have internal consultations in the party. Yes, when it comes to it a week ago, it is indeed normal – except to have another definition of democracy – for a discussion to take place within the party. It is indeed normal that we should also contact, for example, whether the federal government (it has many occasions), the majority group leaders, the Prime Minister, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, have made contact with the federated entities. And the answer I've been given since then is: no. Nothing! Not a single contact was made. No dialogue was held. However, this dialogue seems fundamental to me in discussions that could have taken place and that – you never know – may happen. We must never despair! For us, it is opportune and interesting to consider other forms of organisation of the vote of Belgians abroad. Today, you are proposing, for the regional elections, a strict transposition of the system that exists for the federal elections. For us, a formula such as the establishment of a specific constituency for Belgians abroad must be possible. This would ensure a better representation of Belgians from abroad, whose links with one or the other borough according to the connecting criteria provided for by the law may appear very tenuous. I have heard Mr Ducarme make great statements, particularly to the journalist from Belga, who is still here this afternoon, and whom we welcome. Maybe it's a scoop! You spoke, Mr. Ducrame, of parliamentary sabotage. This is a particularly hollow argument. I could understand the argument of parliamentary sabotage if we were three months away from the elections. But unless something has escaped me in the majority and you have scheduled early elections within three months, the elections are not scheduled in June 2017 but in June 2019. This, of course, gives us ample time to have a constructive dialogue to build together a solution capable of obtaining a special majority. That's no choice you've made. It no longer surprises me that you did not choose dialogue. If you continue in this direction, whether it is the search for a special majority in the House and even more so the fact that you have not respected the federated entities in any way, we will not be able to support your bill. We are in favour of the vote of Belgians from abroad, but we hope that, on the one hand, the federated entities will be consulted, associated and, on the other hand, other arrangements can be put in place, discussed and discussed. That is also what dialogue is about. It's not too late. We will see what your choice will be: either to impose itself as a paternalistic tutelage from the federal to the federated entities, or to show an attitude of constructive dialogue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u53	Mr President, there is one more element, because the issue is very close to my heart and to my group. It is about strengthening the political participation of people who are clearly connected with our country and with our parliamentary democracy. I think that is an important theme. I do not have as much experience as other fellow Members with negotiations on two-thirds majority, but this is indeed a special turn of events. There is even a clapping out of confession where and when one has met in the walkway. That's not a serious way of negotiating. Mrs Fonck, I think that we can decide that perfectly together here. This is the Federal Parliament. Our group is full-blooded federalists. The whole idea that this should be a kind of dialogue between the federal government and the Communities and the regions is almost confederalism. That Mr Vuye proposes this method, I think it is normal, but from a party like the cdH it surprises me. I believe that there should be a debate on such a proposal, but that should take place here. Mr President, I hope there will be such a debate. We shall vote in accordance with our conviction. We support this. The more people we can involve in our parliamentary democracy, in the momentum of elections, the better. The people we talk about deserve that. We are therefore voting in accordance with our conviction. Let this debate also be an invitation to the majority to prepare such matters in a serious way, Mr Ducarme.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u54	Mr Calvo, I understand that you will be speaking later.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u55	Mr President, I shall speak now, and I shall not have to intervene in the future. Once again, let this debate be an invitation to my fellow Members of the majority to do so in a serious way. A two-thirds majority is not easily achieved in this Parliament. Mr President, it looks like this proposal is going to end. I have just tried to count, and I think it may not achieve a majority in both language groups. I hope that we can have a serious debate on this, even more so, that this debate can be opened up and that it can be part of a broader exercise on political renewal as proposed by us. We should also look at what we do with people between 16 and 18 years old and with non-Belgians? It is important to have this debate in a constructive and solution-oriented atmosphere, and this should be done as soon as possible, preferably before 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u56	Mr Calvo, I hear you speak with great enthusiasm about my proposals, which I always find fantastic. But what is the matter with the representatives of the Greens in the Flemish Parliament, with the representatives of Ecolo in the Brussels Parliament and in the Walloon Parliament, that they could not decide that? What's wrong with them? Why does it have to be decided here? Why aren't you in favour of constitutional autonomy? Why can't the Greens in the Land Parliaments decide that? Is the Green Group wiser here than the political groups in the Land Parliaments? Does the Green Group have more democratic legitimacy here than this in the Land Parliaments? Oh, no.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u57	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in this very tumultuous debate in plenary, which is more tumultuous than in committee, we have exchanged many arguments. I would just like to point out that, in our country's history, the extension and obtaining of the right to vote and universal suffrage has been a long way, a very long way. Already, from the capacitary, Mr. Lutgen, you weren't there yet, though... I wasn't talking about the capacitary, but about your age. After the censorial vote, there was the capacitative vote. And then, after the First World War, drawing conclusions from what had happened during this conflict, from the involvement of our people, came an insufficient first extension which was universal male suffrage. After the Second World War, there was a demand for total universal suffrage and therefore women's right to vote. It is interesting, ladies and gentlemen, to read the work of historians on the arguments that were exchanged by those who did not want this right to vote for women. Some, either, don't remember, or pretend not to remember. I don't feel like I'm reliving the same time because I wasn't there. I confirm this to you, Mr Lutgen, even without sneezing. But I still hear a lot of false arguments. When there is an extension of the right to vote in federal elections, Mrs. Fonck, we accept a system. Your party accepts terms and conditions; it accepts the fact that we are listed in a municipality and that this system is adopted. Pascal said, "Truth below the Pyrenees, mistake beyond." When I hear you now unblock what you have agreed to in the federal election and say that regional elections would suddenly be smaller elections, I wonder. Is elections for the French Community, distance learning, of lesser consequence, of lesser importance? What's all this about? I believe above all that there are good arguments and false arguments. And now I wonder. What is your calculation? You're asking for transparency. Do you do the same when it comes to the redistribution of electoral districts in Wallonia? I'm still waiting for an invitation. My party didn't get one, not even a text message, Mr Lutgen. And, Mrs Onkelinx, when we volunteer for the extension of the right to vote, should we punish those who will receive this right to vote because we have not received text messages? Should we punish Belgians living abroad by saying: "You will not have the right to vote because we have not been respectful with us?" That's what you said. To go further, Mrs Onkelinx, if tomorrow we have a text that you are going to table or that I am going to table on the extension of the right to vote...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u58	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u59	You will have the floor in a moment, Mrs. Onkelinx.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u60	So I was saying, a text on the extension of the right to vote for foreigners residing in Belgium, we are going to do so, because we want it, that it is in our programme and that it is an extension of the right to vote. It doesn't change, as you wish.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u61	You shock me a lot. Did I talk about a vote? Did I say that for a second? Did I say I disagreed because I had not been texted? Don't say anything, Mr. Cheron! I have tried to explain, in the rostrum, with substantive arguments, the debates within the Socialist Party. I tried to do it humbly and honestly. I also tried to say that, as we were working on ways of voting for Belgians abroad for the regional elections, it was interesting to have a consultation with the Regions. That you don't agree, I respect it, but don't come over here to distort my words. We don't do anything. I can't stand this mocking of a parliamentary debate by denaturing the words of a member of this House.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u62	Mr President, I have not had the intention or the feeling of distorting. We can go over the tape and start the debate again. I have heard enough arguments about the fact that the forms have not been respected and that when we do a two-thirds project, we have to consult. Maybe I misheard? Let us lift this misunderstanding and consider that this has not happened. You will therefore vote for the text in conscience. All right. What also concerns me, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, is the road which is being claimed, all of a sudden, on which Mrs Fonck has particularly insisted and which would be the way, while the powers, the way we are organised, the special laws say that we are the ones who are competent. We're the federal parliament. Mr Vuye, intellectually honest, has tabled amendments that move in the direction of another path. He said: 'I, a Flemish nationalist who respects resolutions', we had a small, friendly debate about it with Mr Jambon, 'I choose', but there is no political majority to do so, but he is still very lucid, 'the best way. It's 118. It is to use the constitutive autonomy that I want to open widely". Intellectually, it's a logic that has its meaning. Politically, I'm not defending her. I'm defending a federal model and not yours. It's just as respectful of each other's thoughts. If this is Mr. Vuye's path, yes, it is the power that is given to the Regions. That's what some people want. It's their right to want it. On the other hand, with regard to the current system, I am surprised that Baron Delperee is embittering on this theme, which would be to give Mr Vuye a right, while I have always understood that the CDH was the last bulwark. Get the fuck out of here! But then, the path we are following, ladies and gentlemen, is the one that is planned. It is expected that it will be in a special two-thirds majority, with a majority in each linguistic group, that we determine this subject which, a priori - I understood it - was not a problem. What interests us in our group is the extension of the right to vote. I repeat, Mrs. Onkelinx. Tomorrow, if a text is submitted to the House on a further extension of the right to vote and which concerns, for regional or federal elections, foreigners who have been resident in our country for a number of years, we will obviously be in favour of it and we will vote on it without negotiating anything, in view of the fundamental principle of extending the right to vote. In the current times, with the daily disavowal of our democratic institutions and parliamentary representation, this subject is even more important than usual. The message to be delivered must therefore be exemplary as to the extension of the right to vote. That is the basis of our democracy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u63	Mr President, I would like to say to Mr Cheron, who spoke to Baron Delperee, that if I have received a title of nobility from the King and the government, it is something that I never use in my professional activities and certainly not in this House. I find the procedure particularly unpleasant. I would like to add that presenting myself today as the apostle of confederalism and the secession of the State is an intellectual dishonesty that I can hardly accept. You know, Mr Cheron, like everyone else, that we have to pass a special law. It's a government project. Yeah, but what's the problem? First, the government has been out of control since 2014, as it does not have a majority in the French language group. The same applies to this House. These two conditions must be met for the adoption of a special law. So, if the objective were that, the least thing would have been to ask ourselves how to achieve consensus and, more importantly, sufficient membership in our Parliament to achieve a qualified majority. You ignored it. This issue has nothing to do with confederalism or the separation of the State. Let us respect the rules, if you will, of the federal state.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u64	Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I know from a good source that Mr Ducrame wanted to send me a text message, but that he was not allowed to do so. As I do not want to leave it on a frustration, because a missed act can lead to great disillusionment, I would like to explain to him and to the majority my views on this issue. Rest assured, far from me, of the idea of negotiating our voices against, for example, the abandonment of democracy on the periphery, as we have seen in previous adoptions of laws of institutional reform! A member of this assembly paid for it. He was the victim of what he rightly denounced in this rostrum. But it is his new political friends who bear the responsibility. Yes, I wanted to give you an opportunity to speak, Mr. Thiéry. This brings you a little relief because, unfortunately, you no longer have the honour of being the mayor of your commune, whereas universal suffrage would like it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u65	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u66	Papa's universal suffrage, Mr. Ducrame.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u67	Mr President, I would like to remind the excellent speaker that Mr Maingain has been his new political friends for much longer, ten years before me.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u68	Indeed, there were common commitments that I can recall about the connection of your municipality to Brussels. If they had been respected, we might still be together. But that was not the case! On the other hand, Mr Cheron, I would not have demanded, by means of a secret clause, that a mayor should be imposed on a certain political tendency in Brussels in return for the votes cast by a special majority (cf. Watermael-Boitsfort). If you wish, I can tell you the story. I think there are a few witnesses here. Yes, there are reminders that hurt. I can understand that, but the truth has its rights. Having said that, I am fully in favour of the Belgians' right to vote abroad. And I want to say from the outset that I do not join those who want a separate constituency for Belgians abroad. I do not share this institutional pattern for various reasons, in particular, because it would be an exception to our proportional system, given the small number of elected representatives who would represent Belgians abroad in this assembly. This system is therefore not compatible with the one prevailing for the representation of parliamentary assemblies. What I would have expected of the majority is for it to introduce ordinary laws at the same time, because that's what we've always seen when we're doing institutional debates. We had special laws and ordinary laws, so that we could assess all the legal aspects of the matter. For the election to the Federal Parliament, to the House, there were serious shortcomings in the organisation of the Belgian vote abroad, because the instructions were not given in time, notably by diplomatic and consular posts, or because, for example, Mr. Thiéry, voters from the periphery did not have the right to receive documents in French if their last connecting commune was a commune with a special linguistic regime. These are all the things that I would have wished to clarify in the law at the same time as we were examining the special law, to have the guarantee of the effectiveness of the Belgians' right to vote abroad. So far, this right to vote has been largely boycotted by some of the diplomatic or consular posts or has been largely abandoned by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for lack of timely administrative organisation. I do not accept that today we are being asked for a vote in principle without knowing all the details, all the legal aspects. Because I'm terribly attached to Belgians' right to vote abroad, I don't want to buy a cat in a bag. And that is what the majority is proposing to us: an illusion, failing to present all the legal data to the Parliamentary Assembly. Finally, you do a small partisan calculation, instead of coming with all the legal data and allowing a full debate by discussing with the opposition parties, which is a minimum to have their voice. The least we can do when we have to have a qualified majority is to open the discussion with the opposition parties, knowingly. But in reality, what interests you is not to obtain the effectiveness of Belgians' right to vote abroad. That's not what you're interested in. It's not about improving the system. What really interests you is to make it a small political debate so that you can say that there has been a divergence. And ultimately, the N-VA will simply ask you, in a few months' time, to make it a transfer of powers to the federated entities. That is what is being sought through this vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u69	In committee, Minister, you replied: every animal is a pleasure; we will approve the text. I don't have the impression that that pleasure will be for tonight. It'll be another time. For the record, I did not receive a text, nor did Mrs Wouters, but I suspect you already knew all that. I notice there's been a bit of a fight at the French-speaking camp. Mr Cheron calls me an apostle of confederalism. You understand that I feel called to fight in the Flemish camp. I'm the only one today, but I'll be delighted to do so. Mr Minister, I am a little surprised to see you, you are from N-VA, where the V stands for Flemish, I thought you would come here with a draft special law amending the laws of 8 August 1980 and 12 January 1989, while you can solve this in a different way. Mr Cheron, you were just talking about confédéral. What I propose is also contained in Article 118 of the Constitution. That's nothing revolutionary. That is something that Ecolo-Groen approved at the time in exchange for the ecotaxes, which never came. That's a classic at Ecolo-Groen. You support all state reforms and will always get something in place, but you will never get it. That was the first time. In 1993, Ecolo-Green endorsed that article and did not replace it, which we can only regret. Mr Minister, you can also achieve this in a different way, namely by implementing Article 118 (2) of the Treaty. I have heard here from Mrs Fonck and Mrs Onkelinx that there is a question of involving the Länder. That makes sense to me. Especially now that I hear that Mrs Fonck is making a proposal of her own, namely a constituency specifically for the Belgians abroad, which is all things that need to be discussed in a democracy, it is the easiest way to achieve this through constitutional autonomy. There's nothing revolutionary about that. In this context, read Article 118 of the Constitution, which allows that autonomy perfectly. Minister, you can apparently talk and listen at the same time. However, since you obviously do not know it, and because Mrs Wouters and I like to help people across language boundaries, we are always trying to find consensus, we have drawn up an amendment that realizes exactly the same thing as you are trying to do, down to the smallest detail. However, we do so through constitutional autonomy. Mr Miller has just made a moving plea about the importance of the Länder. If the Länder are so important, Mr Miller should actually support my proposal. Mrs Wouters and I took a look back and looked at what a number of groups said here during a previous debate on 20 June 2012. At that time, some very interesting statements were made, including by the Minister. However, I will start with someone else, namely someone I have always found to be a very sensible man. I still do, by the way. That's Ben Weyts. Ben Weyts said here a few years ago: "For us, the N-VA is quite clear that the best solution to this problem is to grant constitutional autonomy to the Land Parliaments, as your party advocates, as stated in the famous resolution of the Flemish Parliament," Ben Weyts then knew those resolutions in 2012, "as all Flemish parties advocated and as it was on the negotiating table as long as we were there." As I have to say something about everyone, I also recall the statements made at the time by another friendly colleague, namely Stefaan Van Hecke. He said very convincingly and convincingly: Mr Weyts, I assure you that we are speaking on behalf of Ecolo-Groen, who have defended constitutional autonomy, like many parties.' In fact, he should be defending it today. When reading the lyrics one sometimes has to recognize one's multiple. Sometimes it has to be decided that someone has said it so well that it is impossible to say it better themselves. That is what I am trying to do, especially Mr Van Biesen. Mr van Biesen, on behalf of the Open Group, says: 'Our party is in favour of giving Belgians the right to vote abroad for elections at the other levels'. That's what we're talking about here. We're even moving on. Our party is in favour of giving the total autonomy in this matter to each parliament to decide for itself which of its constituents are and in other words to add the Belgians abroad to the elections for, for example, the Flemish elections or for the other levels. Each level should make that up for itself, as there is no hierarchy between parliaments." I therefore assume that Open Vld would support Mrs Wouters' and I's amendment. I've never felt more liberal in my life than I did when I read that quote. I can't possibly say it any better. Sometimes one also comes out with surprises, when one has something similar. On page 16 at the bottom we read what Jan Jambon says for the N-VA. He is addressing you, Mr Van Hecke, you may remember that. He tells you: 'The fact of constitutional autonomy was in the texts from the beginning as long as we were negotiating'. That took a little while, 541 days. From day one that was in the lyrics. Now it's gone. Constitutional autonomy is gone. Then it was in the text from day one. Mr Jambon goes on: 'It is with that principle, therefore, the constitutional autonomy, which we could achieve in the Land Parliament. It was only when we left the negotiating table that we were pushed away or pushed away... Mr Jambon says: 'Because the bar had to go down and we were not prepared to do so.' Now the bar's all gone. Then the bar was still going down, now there's just no bar anymore. We have been looking for an explanation of how it is that in 2016 completely different positions will be expressed compared to 2012. I only have one explanation when I look at the past. I remember Mr Martens, once chairman of the Flemish People's Movement, who spoke about federalism. Mr. Martens entered the royal palace, came out and talked about unionist federalism. Mr Leterme talked about federalism, entered the royal palace, came out and talked about federalism cooperation. Mr Jambon spoke of confederalism, entered the royal palace and came out with a bolt, with a special law. Why give Flanders more autonomy when one can help to lock Belgium? Mr. Secretary, why would you do that? A few years ago, you would have done that. Now you don't really think that's necessary anymore. That is why we are tabling this amendment. It's a technical help. You said: every animal's pleasure, but we also give you the pleasure. Every little animal needs that, so why not you? That is why we have tabled it. Of course, there's more. We also have a second amendment, to make it a little difficult to carry that No. 1. For this I have to address myself to all Flemish parties. In 1999, you forgot, you want to forget that, you repressed that, that has become a nightmare, but in 1999 five resolutions were adopted not far from here, on the other side of the street. Five resolutions have been adopted. The Flemish parties have all approved them. I doubt whether that one party voted in favour or not, but at least the others did. I'm 100 percent sure of that. One of these resolutions states that: "The powers of the Länder to regulate their own institutions should be extended. The Länder must acquire their own constitutional autonomy, while respecting a federal framework. I do not need the latter, but it is in those resolutions. Then there's the Octopus note. I know it's painful that I have to remember things from childhood that have been repressed. That's painful. The Octopus note probably doesn't say anything to you at all. This was in 2008 and was even included in an annex to the Flemish government agreement of 2009. Mr. Beke remembers. He's nodding. This is a text of 2008 as an annex to the 2009 Flemish government agreement. The Octopus chord is a political agreement between the CD&V, the N-VA, the sp.a and the Open VLD. Who was the keeper of the Octopus chord? Who said in January 2011 in the Flemish Parliament that he is the keeper of the Flemish line and of the Octopus agreement? That was Prime Minister Kris Peeters. In March 2011, he said in De Seventhe Dag that the Flemish parties should remain in agreement on the line of the Octopus note. What's in there now? I quote the Octopus note: first of all, we ask for greater constitutional autonomy. The powers of the Länder to regulate their own institutions should be extended. In a further perspective, it is appropriate that both Flanders and Wallonia have their own constitutional autonomy, although within the limits of an agreed federal framework. Only in this way can the Länder fill in their independence. Its own constitutional power is also only a logical evolution within the federal state and is a strengthening of democratic substructure. Mr Miller, you have talked a lot about democracy. As you can see, constitutional autonomy is called a strengthening of democratic support. These are all very interesting notes, but they do wonder how useful it is to approve them if they do something completely different afterwards. It is better not to approve it, otherwise it will be painful years later if someone reminds you that you have adopted five resolutions and an Octopus note. Of course, that's very painful. That'll probably give you an indigestion until next Monday. However, it gets even more painful. In March 2016 there was the book performance of Stefan Sottiaux's State Law Handbook. Mrs Wouters and I were there. What did we hear Mr Bourgeois say then? Mr Bourgeois said that there must be constitutional autonomy or the possibility of issuing a constitution of its own, which is something more revolutionary and to shape its own institutions. That was in March 2016, Prime Minister Bourgeois. In February 2017, Deputy Prime Minister Jan Jambon says the opposite. That is the Flemish drum ruffling across the street and behaving beautifully Belgian and making beautiful tricolore proposals that are not at all consistent with what is said and approved on the other side of the street. That is why we have tabled a second amendment. You're not mad at me, are you? It's painful that I have to remind you of all that. Since you forgot, we have tabled a second amendment to help you. That second amendment implements those 1999 resolutions, the 2008 Octopus note and that speech by Prime Minister Bourgeois in March 2016. I therefore expect to receive the full support of at least the N-VA Group and of the other groups bound by those five resolutions and by the Octopus note. After all, there has been a time when all these were important documents for you. Now it's something you seem to be a little embarrassed about and what you prefer to keep quiet about. In any case, I look forward to supporting our amendments.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u70	There are no other speakers. Does the government ask for the floor in this?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u71	Mr President, I would like to thank my fellow Members for this debate, which was more animated than in committee. Anyone who was there can confirm that. I am pleased to note that all the groups of Members who have spoken today are in favour of the idea of voting in the Länder for Belgians abroad. It's good to establish that. In the past, it's been different. I note that the arguments put forward here relate mainly to the procedure. There's not much content. These arguments are of two kinds: on the one hand, consultation with the other groups and on the other hand, consultation with the federated entities. As regards the consultation with the other groups and the comparison of different points of view, I thought that in committee we could look at the opinions and models of the different groups and look for a compromise. However, in committee, I have not seen any other model. With a model on the table and nothing else, it was difficult to reach an agreement. Secondly, as far as concerts with the Länder are concerned, I am pleased to note that a number of groups I did not expect to defend the confederal model. That opens up prospects for the future. I note that some groups, which I did not expect, defend the confederal model and confederal consultation. Welcome!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u72	You welcome them on behalf of the government?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u73	No, I simply note that some groups defend the confederal model. I can tell you that on 24 June 2015, the issue was discussed by the Flemish Prime Minister at the Consultation Committee. We then set out to present a model. Now we can continue to discuss but if we really want to give Belgians abroad the right to vote for federated entities, there is something on the table. We can always discuss whether there are better models or whether we can improve things, but today we have a model that exists. I invite all those here in the House who are in favour of the right of Belgians abroad to vote for the federated entities to take their responsibilities, not to hide behind procedural arguments and to vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u74	I thank the Minister. Are there any members who wish to replicate?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u75	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have just heard the Minister of the Interior say: "Welcome to the confederal camp!" What's the confederal camp? Is this the government camp? What does the MR think? What does the majority party think? What do Francophones think of the majority? They're confederalists? That would still deserve clarification!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u76	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u77	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2246/5) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2246/5) The draft special law contains 10 articles. The Special Bill has 10 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u78	• 3 - Hendrik Vuye cs (2246/6) ****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ******
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u79	******
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u80	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Sonja Becq, Raf Terwingen, Sophie De Wit, Kristien Van Vaerenbergh, Carina Van Cauter, Philippe Goffin. Without report Not related
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u81	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u82	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2286/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2286/1) The bill has 4 articles. The bill has 4 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u83	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u84	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Karin Jiroflée. The Committee on Health, the Environment and Social Renewal proposes to reject this proposal for a resolution. (1755/6) The Committee on Public Health, the Environment and the Renewal of the Society proposes to reject this motion for a resolution. (1755/6) Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the proposers. In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the authors.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u85	Mr President, I will be brief and refer to the written report. I have just asked a topical question on the subject, so I made my point. I also think that everyone deserves a good night's sleep in their own bed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u86	I agreed with Mrs Gerkens that she could speak after Mrs Jiroflée.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u87	Mr President, I fully agree with Mrs Dedry on a good night's sleep. So I shall be very brief. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years the use of chemicals in pesticides has been increasing considerably. At 40 years, use increased by 260 to 825 000 tonnes per year. In addition, 76% of these are used in agriculture. However, a lot of this substance is also spread in public and private spaces. The World Health Organisation recently concluded that the substance is likely to be carcinogenic to humans. In our opinion, the determination of the presence of arthropods in our bodies, in our food and even in breast milk should encourage the Belgian Government to apply the precautionary principle. Within the European institutions, Belgium should urge that the expiry of the authorisation for the use of the substance should not be extended. Moreover, the Belgian Government should not wait to prohibit the use of arthropods for private use and for use in public space within Belgium. Ladies and gentlemen, that is the problem, and that is what we are trying to do with the use of turnips. Meanwhile, the file has come a long way. In response to Mrs Dedry's question this afternoon, the Minister briefly outlined how that road went. In the meantime, we have tabled dozens of amendments along these lines. Unfortunately, despite our efforts, the majority remain deaf on that side and refuse to support the resolution. Despite the Minister's words this afternoon, where he does imply that he is also concerned, we see that nothing is happening in this area because of the government. If the Minister is really so worried, dear members of the government, then he must do something. There is a deep gap between what the Minister says and the position of the majority on this resolution. Glyphosate, best government, is poison. Take it out of the racks, that's the only right way to act. Apparently, the Minister still doesn't have an ear for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u88	Mr President, I will be particularly brief in my speech to urge my colleagues to reject the rejection of this resolution. This motion for a resolution calls for the ban on the sale to private individuals now and for the refusal of the fifteen-year extension of this authorisation, as a precautionary principle and as a matter of concern for health and the environment. We also requested that this product not be used in public spaces. I regret that this dimension has not been retained. The Walloon and Brussels regions have decided to take steps in this direction. The Federal Parliament has also expressed its support for SNCB's land, in order to work with the Regions to find alternatives in agriculture. Ladies and gentlemen, I urge you to reconsider your decision and to allow Parliament to take measures to prohibit the sale and placing on the market of this product today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u89	No other speaker may speak. No one can speak any more. The vote on the motion to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later date. The vote on the proposal to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u90	At the plenary session on Thursday 2 February 2017, it appeared that for the two-year term of office of deputy member of the French-speaking Appointment Commission for the notary, category "external members', no candidate has achieved the required two-thirds majority. At the plenary meeting on Thursday, February 2, 2017, it was found that no candidate obtained the two-thirds majority required to fill the two-year term of office of an alternate member of the Commission de nomination de langue française pour le notariat, category "external members". In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 8 February 2017, I propose that you publish a call to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal for this mandate. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 8 February 2017, I propose that you publish a call for candidates to the Belgian Monitor for this mandate. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u91	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 8 February 2017, I also propose that you consider: - the legislative proposal (Mr Servais Verherstraeten and Mr Wouter Beke) amending the Law of 6 August 1931 establishing the incomparencies and disqualifications concerning ministers, former ministers and ministers of State, and the members and former members of the Legislative Chambers, as regards the introduction of an incompatibility between the mandate of a member of the Chamber of Representatives and the mandate of a mayor of a municipality with more than 50 000 inhabitants, No. 2297/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u92	- the motion for a resolution (Mrs Griet Smaers, Mr Nathalie Muylle, Mr Leen Dierick and Mr Nahima Lanjri and Mr Stefaan Vercamer) on the use of prevention and well-being to reduce the number of self-employed people unable to work, No. 2298/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u93	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 8 February 2017, I also propose that you take into account: - the bill (MM. Servais Verherstraeten and Wouter Beke) amending the Act of 6 August 1931 establishing incompatibilities and prohibitions concerning ministers and ministers of State, as well as members and former members of the Legislative Chambers, with a view to establishing an incompatibility between the term of office of member of the House of Representatives and the term of office of mayor of a commune of more than 50,000 inhabitants, No. 2297/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u94	- the motion for a resolution (Ms Griet Smaers, Nathalie Muylle, Leen Dierick and Nahima Lanjri and Mr Stefaan Vercamer) to focus on prevention and well-being in order to reduce the number of self-employed persons with incapacity for work, No 2298/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u95	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u96	The Government requested urgent treatment under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when submitting the draft law on the granting of disponibility with waiting and leave prior to the waiting pension by the autonomous State of Belgocontrol, No. 2291/1. The Government requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure at the time of the tabling of the bill on the granting by the autonomous State enterprise Belgocontrol of a waiting period and a pre-pension leave with waiting treatment, No. 2291/1. I propose that we take a decision on this request by sitting and rising, but as tradition has it, there is a motivation of the Secretary of State, Mr. Backer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u97	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the people's representatives, disability due to direct and effective traffic control is a leave prior to the pension for traffic controllers. On 12 April 2016, a social agreement on the end-of-life provisions was adopted by the trade unions and Belgocontrol within the Joint Committee. It is justified to ratify the social agreement by royal decree. That exception regime is justified by the specific nature of the task of air traffic controller, as part of Belgocontrol's mission to continuously provide for the safety of air traffic in Belgium. We therefore propose to carry out a technical correction designed to amend the Law of 21 March 1991 in order to give the King the power to adopt the provisions on leave prior to retirement and the granting of disponibility. Given that the social agreement approved by the Council of Ministers on 20 May 2016 had its first effects on 1 January 2016, that the preliminary draft law approved by the Council of Ministers plans to make the King competent from the same date, that the only signature of the royal decree presented to the Council of Ministers on 9 June and 10 November 2016 will allow the implementation of the provisions agreed in the social agreement, the urgency is required for the continuation of the procedure in order to limit the period during which the agents concerned are in an unstable situation. Every month that passes sees the air traffic controllers stuck between the old regime, which no longer applies, and the new one, which does not yet apply. This project is essential for the establishment of the new regime as defined in the social agreement between Belgocontrol and the trade unions. In light of these elements, we propose to seek urgent consideration of the bill before Parliament, in accordance with rule 51 of the House's Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u98	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u99	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, Communications and Public Enterprises on 1 February 2017. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for Infrastructure, Transport and Public Enterprises of 1 February 2017. Two motions were tabled (MOT nr. 195/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Laurent Devin; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Nele Lijnen and by Messrs. Jean-Jacques Flahaux and Veli Yüksel. Two motions were tabled (MOT n° 195/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Laurent Devin; A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Nele Lijnen and Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux and Mr Veli Yüksel. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u100	All the parties present here have intervened in committee, in the face of Deputy Prime Minister M. From Croo. The status of our public enterprises does impose an obligation of exemplaryness on them. When it comes to a public enterprise with tens of thousands of workers, it is not just a symbolic duty. bpost is an actor whose choices have an economic, social and even environmental impact for the country as a whole. Because it belongs to all Belgians, bpost cannot be administered as a simple private company centered on its own results. To be clear, bpost should not be able to ignore the general interest in its decision-making. However, it is clearly so. By delocalising 200 skilled jobs, by the game of social dumping, bpost acted as a cynical company, and this decision is not the result of chance. It is the government that has put all the conditions in place for such a result to be achieved. By removing government control over companies, by a law passed in December 2015, the majority sent them a clear message: focus on your turnover, forget that the Belgian citizen is your first shareholder. It is for this reason that with my group, I ask the government to empower itself to assume its responsibilities, to defend the public interest by re-establishing the office of Commissioner of the Government and to prohibit public enterprises or public participation from relocation abroad of the services and jobs attached to them. In this case, Deputy Prime Minister De Croo claimed that he was initially deceived when he asked bpost about his intentions. He then claimed that he had never been informed of the decision. A deceived and ignored minister. Nine parliamentary questions in committee, nine indignations in unison, all parties combined, majority as opposition; nine parties asking how this is possible. After all of us have been indignant, the Socialist Group invites all of you, ladies and gentlemen, to join us in voting on this motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u101	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 76 Yes No. 61 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 137 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u102	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 137 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2245/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2245/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u103	Vote on Amendment No 16 from Anne Dedry cs to insert a request 2/1(n). (1007/7) Vote on Amendment No 16 by Anne Dedry cs to insert a point 2/1(n). (1007/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 44 Yes No. 77 No Abstentions 17 Abstensions Total 138 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstention? Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u104	Mr President, I abstained on this point. I will also do so on other points where there is different voting behaviour, because of a vote meeting with Mr Van Mechelen who will not be present for a time for medical reasons. I'll pair where there's a different mood. My abstention must only be understood in that context and not for other reasons.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u105	Vote on Amendment No 17 from Anne Dedry cs to insert an application 9(n). (1007/7) Vote on Amendment No 17 by Anne Dedry cs to insert a point 9(n). (1007/7) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u106	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u107	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u108	Mr President, I did not speak in the general debate because the debate had already taken place in committee. I would just like to point out that our group will obviously support this text. Indeed, it is never just a fair translation of the decisions that have been announced by the government. Everyone will have access to the iodine pill. It was not particularly necessary to have an anxious attitude in relation to this debate. At the same time, I would like to point out that both pharmacists and doctors will be directly involved in this process. That is why we will fully support this project.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u109	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u110	Yes 138 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (1007/8) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (1007/ 8)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u111	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u112	Yes 92 Yes No. 1 No Abstentions 45 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. (1186/5) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. (1186/5) Reason for abstinence? [[)]] Reason forbearance? )
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u113	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u114	Yes 137 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (1682/8) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (1682/8) Reason for abstinence? [[)]] Reason forbearance? )
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u115	Vote on Amendment No 2 of Barbara Beware of Article 9. (2215/5) Vote on Amendment No 2 by Barbara Not to Article 9. (2215/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 3...................................................................................................................... 3...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Yes No. 132 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 9 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 9 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 3 by Barbara Beware of Article 11. (2215/5) Vote on Amendment No 3 by Barbara Not to Article 11. (2215/5) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u116	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 11 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 11 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 4 by Barbara Beware of Article 12. (2215/5) Vote on Amendment No. 4 by Barbara Not to Article 12. (2215/5) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u117	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 12 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 12 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 5 by Barbara Beware of Article 14. (2215/5) Vote on Amendment No 5 by Barbara Not to Article 14. (2215/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes 3...................................................................................................................... 3...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Yes No. 133 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 14 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 14 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 6 by Barbara Beware of Article 24. (2215/5) Vote on Amendment No 6 by Barbara Not to Article 24. (2215/5) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u118	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 24 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 24 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 7 by Barbara Beware of Article 25. (2215/5) Vote on amendment No. 7 by Barbara Not to article 25. (2215/5) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u119	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 25 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 25 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 8 by Barbara Beware of Article 26. (2215/5) Vote on Amendment No 8 by Barbara Not to Article 26. (2215/5) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u120	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 26 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 26 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 9 by Barbara Beware of Article 38. (2215/5) Vote on amendment No. 9 by Barbara Not to article 38. (2215/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes 3...................................................................................................................... 3...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Yes No. 131 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 38 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 38 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u121	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes 88 Yes No. 44 No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2215/6) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2215/6) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u122	Vote on Amendment No 1 by Barbara Beware of Article 3. (2216/4) Vote on Amendment No 1 by Barbara Not to Article 3. (2216/4) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes 3...................................................................................................................... 3...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Yes No. 132 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u123	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 12) Yes 81 Yes No. 54 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be sent to the Senate. (2216/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be forwarded to the Senate. (2216/5) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Mrs Lanjri voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u124	Some of them were a little slow. A number of CD&V fellow Members did not vote on the previous draft.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u125	They didn't vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u126	Try to keep your eye on it. We're going to...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u127	Some of the majority members forgot to vote on the previous draft. They're here.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u128	We would like to repeat that vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u129	The vote was taken, and the draft was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u130	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u131	We shall now proceed to the vote on the name.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u132	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u133	No, Mr. Calvo. The vote has taken place. The draft has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u134	Can you give me the results again? What does the Rules say about compulsory voting when there is a presence? The people who are present must take part in the vote, mustn't they?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u135	I can't hear you, Mr Calvo.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u136	One of the first times I was here, as a newcomer, I was told that the Rules of Procedure provide that Members present must take part in the vote. Is that right, or isn't that right?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u137	That's not right.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u138	No?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u139	No. We did not get 138 votes on many previous votes either. This means that some Members did not vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u140	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u141	Mr President, it seems to us that the intentions of the authors of the proposal are quite good. This includes equalizing the situation of a child's father depending on whether or not the couple is married. We therefore fully agree with the bill with regard to intent. On the other hand, the way in which you formulated the proposal – one of the speakers in the debate confirmed it in some way in this forum – is the open door to questioning a women's right linked to all the legislation on the decriminalization of abortion. A fruitful debate has taken place both in committee and in this House. That's the case! I am very much in favour of referring this proposal back to the Committee on Justice, so that we can adjust it while fully respecting the work and ideas of the authors of the proposal. I believe that this is a real danger, an open door to questioning a fundamental right for women. If it is not possible to adjust it in committee, we will vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u142	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 13) Yes 102 Yes No. [[25]] No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will, as a design to the King to be submitted for ratification . (1658/6) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. (1658/6) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]] Mr Blanchart voted against.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u143	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[114]] Yes No. 24 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will, as a design to the King to be submitted for ratification . (1857/7) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. (1857/7) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u144	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 15) Yes 138 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. (765/9) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. (765/9)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u145	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 16) Yes 134 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. (1152/8) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. (1152/8) Mr Demeyer voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u146	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 17) Yes [[80]] Yes No. 1 No Abstentions 57 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. (2286/4) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. (2286/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u147	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u148	Mr President, I could have provided a whole line of argument now. But since the debate has already taken place and the answers have been given by Minister Borsus during the topical questions, I would simply like to refer to the arguments that have been given and which correspond to what we have defended in committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u149	Mr President, in June 2016, the European Commission decided to extend the authorisation of glyphosate until the European Chemicals Agency issues a new opinion by the end of 2017. It must be remembered that this decision was the subject of intense controversy. There are serious doubts about the health and environmental risks posed by glyphosate. In March 2015, the WHO classified glyphosate as a probable human carcinogen. There are therefore disagreements between WHO and the European Food Safety Authority and between experts. It should be added that many citizens' associations are challenging EFSA's procedures. More recently, a second WHO study, carried out in partnership with FAO, classified Monsanto's pesticide as "probably not carcinogenic". The situation is therefore rather confused and we consider that in the face of these uncertainties it is the precautionary principle that must prevail by prohibiting glyphosate. For our group, reducing the use of pesticides requires the development of alternatives that are more respectful of health and the environment. In particular, governments must support farmers and invest in research and development. We therefore regret that the majority rejected this proposal in committee and did not choose the precautionary principle.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u150	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 18) Yes 79 Yes No. [[55]] No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The proposal of Resolution No. 1755/1 was therefore rejected. Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Motion for a resolution No 1755/1 is therefore rejected. Order of business / Order of business Colleagues, I have just received a motion from Mr Ducrame, which he is going to motivate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u151	Mr President, this is a motion that deals with item 12 of our agenda, namely the rather lengthy and interesting debate that we have just had on the right to vote of Belgians from abroad, in particular the vote of Walloons from abroad, Brusselsers from abroad and Flemish people from abroad, since it concerns the extension of the vote of Belgians from abroad to regional elections. Finally, we were able to take stock of each other's positions, which we were unable to do in the committee, given the lack of participation in the debate in this committee with regard to the CDH and the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u152	(...) Ne mentez pas!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u153	I'm not lying! May I continue, Mr. President? Can I go to the end?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u154	Yes!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u155	No!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u156	Yes, I'll go to the end, Mrs. Onkelinx. I ask for the next Conference of Presidents to demonstrate, black and white, that the Socialist Party did not participate in the vote in committee. You'll have it black on white! I now come back to the subject matter of my motion. We have demonstrated that, beyond the teasing expressions that we have just heard, a debate as important as that could go beyond the majority-opposition divide. We saw it with Ecolo-Groen, who was able to speak out clearly so that we could finally extend the vote of Belgians from abroad to the regional elections, because they had been defending this position for a very long time, just like us. But we are not going to act out of pride and force the vote on it. On this subject, we will not waste any more time on the Flemish, Brussels and Walloons, who have been waiting for far too long and who have been suffering for too long from the political games in this field. For these reasons, we are asking on the basis of Article 17(3) for a postponement of the vote on this point. We expect, indeed, as they have offered services, that, unlike the debate in committee, we can, as the Minister of the Interior has indicated, see, black on white, your proposals on this subject, and we also expect the Minister of the Interior, an extremely active part in the approximation of points of view, so that we can meet the government agreement and the imperative of a special majority so that these Belgians from abroad can finally obtain this right to which they are entitled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u157	Mr President, I would like to make a small correction for the leader of the MR Group, Denis Ducrame: I was present in committee on the day of the debates. I was able to express my group's position. Besides, you weren't there. I was able to express what was wrong. So it's a mistake. It is inappropriate for you today to say that I was not present. I had to get out... [[brouhaha]] May I finish?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u158	Let Mrs. Ben Hamou speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u159	I went out for a few moments and couldn't take part in the vote, but I'm sorry, I did participate in the debate. I have expressed my group's opinion and arguments and disagree with what you are talking about today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u160	Ladies and gentlemen, according to the third paragraph of Rule 17 of our Rules of Procedure, this motion must be supported by a third of the Members. I assume I can accept the support as acquired. [[Assent]] Consequently, we shall immediately vote electronically on this motion to amend the agenda and therefore postpone the vote on item 12. Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 19) Yes 79 Yes No. 5 No Abstentions 54 Abstensions Total 138 Total As a result, the agenda has been amended and the vote on the draft special act No. 2246 postponed. As a result, the agenda was changed and the vote on Special Bill No. 2246 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-09-54-plenair-ip157x.u161	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 16 February 2017. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, 16 February 2017. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. I wish you a pleasant continuation. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 16 February 2017 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 16 February 2017, at 2.15 p.m.
