ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic753x.u1	Mr President, Minister, in June 2016, your colleague, Mr. De Croo, initiated an important project by creating a legal framework for the collaborative economy. Implementing measures have recently been adopted. I note that the regulation you have put in place favours an individual, not a sectoral, approach that would take into account the diversity of practices behind the collaborative economy. However, this type of entrepreneurship should be given a framework adapted to practice in order to allow its development with due respect for fair competition with the traditional economy. Indeed, these platforms create values and jobs. In this respect, the Union of Middle Classes (UCM) and the Brussels Chamber of Middle Classes are calling for smart regulation to distinguish between activities to be encouraged and those to be monitored. They recommend examining platforms according to five criteria: profit-making or non-profit-making purpose; the exchange of goods or services; the frequency of services; the type of platform (connection or intermediary) and the status of stakeholders (individuals or companies). As a result, collaborative economy initiatives could be classified into three areas controlled by the government: an out-of-regulation area, where the activity does not involve any exchange of money or property (e.g. couchsurfing); a smart regulation area where the supplier is an individual and where the supplier shares costs and/or remuneration (e.g. the Blablacar carpooling service); and a sector-specific regulatory area where the activity is carried out in a professional manner. This would involve the establishment of a legal unit to analyse each individual collaborative initiative, as is already the case in Amsterdam. As the UCM points out, it is clear that the law of your colleague, Mr. De Croo, can only be a step towards this intelligent regulation. Minister, have you been aware of these recommendations? What answers do you intend to provide? What is your position on this smart regulation? What are your projects with respect to the collaborative economy?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic753x.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr de Lamotte, the House of the Middle Class wants a definition of the collaborative economy that distinguishes the models to be encouraged from those to be regulated and monitored on a case-by-case basis. This smart regulation would be based on different criteria for assessing the need to regulate the proposed activity through a collaborative platform. However, it seems important to me to point out that the collaborative economy is not synonymous with a platform economy, two concepts that are often confused. It is true that the collaborative economy challenges the existing concepts of our economic regulation. It is not always easy to determine whether there is a collaborative economy or regular economic activity under the general rules. That is why I have explicitly requested that a description of the concept of collaborative economy be included in the draft law on the concept of enterprise, which has been prepared by my colleague responsible for justice and which will probably be discussed in this House in the coming months. I also asked the various economic actors to hear their views on the adequacy of the rules in force and on the advisability of regulating the development of the collaborative economy, more specifically in the insurance and employment sectors. Among these actors is the National Economic Council in which the UCM is represented. I've already received answers. Their examination will allow me to assess the advisability of introducing specific rules on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic753x.u3	Minister, thank you for your answer, which indicates the status of the files. When you say they will end in the next few months, I think it's a vague calendar. I understand that you have contacted the economic actors and the stakeholders active in this sector. For now, you're listening to them. But I was asking you what position you had in this intelligent regulation and I didn't hear you clarify it. The debate remains open. Then you didn't tell me what your plans were in terms of collaborative economy. The bill remains on the job for the time being, but other initiatives have not yet been taken. I will therefore come back to ask you about this growing sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic753x.u4	I have no news from Mrs Gantois for her question No. 18900. Questions Nos 19253 and 19710 by Mrs Winckel are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic753x.u5	Mr President, Minister, it is still possible at present that a consumer may have to pay a supplement when he wishes to pay a small sum by Bancontact. Indeed, although a European directive was enacted in early 2017, it has not yet been transposed into Belgian law. In practical terms, it provides for the prohibition of supplements for card payments in the case of small sums. This measure is intended to protect more consumers, and I can only welcome it! That is why I look forward to its transposition into Belgian law. Minister, can you tell me when this European directive will be transposed into Belgian law? Does the FPS Economy have figures on this practice? Are many of them claiming a supplement in the case of small amounts? Once the European Directive has been transposed and the ban in force, does the SPF Economy intend to organise controls and/or establish a platform for denouncing people who do not comply with the legislation? Some call them fraudsters, but I prefer a less firm term.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic753x.u6	Mr President, Mrs Cassart, the DSP 2 directive must be transposed into our national law by 13 January 2018. The prohibition to charge additional costs will be faithfully transposed into Book VII of the Code of Economic Law. The supervisory officers of the Directorate-General of the Economic Inspectorate of my administration are competent to comply with these rules and, more generally, with the rules of the Code of Economic Law. They will ensure compliance with the relevant legislation and will therefore punish breaches or violations. First, these investigations will be carried out as part of the processing of alerts received via the point of contact with the Inspectorate. As far as the CSA Directive is concerned, my administration is currently finalising the adjustments to be made following the opinion of the Council of State. Rules on payment services already exist at Belgian level; for example, the financial sector's self-discipline code on bank mobility services for sight accounts. Book VII also already contains a chapter regulating the basic banking service. The aim is therefore to maintain in this transposition, where the Directive permits, the high national level of consumer protection. My administration does not have the numbers that you and Mr. Kir asked for.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic753x.u7	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensiveness of your answer and I am pleased that this is going in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic753x.u8	Mr President, Minister, on 28 June the new energy consumer agreement was signed by as many as 17 energy suppliers. In the past year, as the government agreement also states, you have evaluated the previous version of the agreement. Subsequently, the findings of this evaluation were discussed in detail and renegotiated with the energy suppliers. This is how the new consumer agreement came about. For example, it will be easier for consumers to compare and will also increase transparency by, for example, accessing the tariff card. Despite some very good measures, there was also criticism of the new agreement, namely that it would give consumers a false sense of protection. As a result of this criticism, I have a number of questions. Minister, what do you think are the main elements of the agreement, which will provide additional consumer protection? There was also criticism of the flat-rate flat-rate compensation. For example, the Energy Ombudsman raises questions about the legality of, inter alia, charging a termination fee through the subscription price. Can you explain your views on this? Finally, the consumer agreement is binding on the suppliers who have signed it and thus also provides additional protection for consumers on top of the current legislation. How will you ensure that the suppliers who signed the agreement also apply it effectively? Will there be specific controls for this? When should we expect it? I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic753x.u9	Mr President, Minister, the federal energy regulator CREG warned early 2016 about dormant electricity and natural gas contracts. These are contracts that are no longer available on the market and therefore cannot be compared with the supplier's current offer. Following this warning, you announced, after evaluation and consultation with the sector and consumer representatives, an adjustment of the consumer agreement. The new consumer agreement would be applied by energy suppliers by 1 January 2018 at the latest. I have the following questions. What was the need for adjustment in relation to dormant energy contracts? What other areas of work related to the consumer agreement were highlighted in the evaluation? How are they affected by the new agreement? Are you planning any other measures regarding the dormant energy contracts?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic753x.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have a rather comprehensive answer, which I hope will be complete and sufficient. As you have undoubtedly seen, the code of conduct has been transformed into a new form in order to improve its legibility and coherence. The most important innovations can be summarized in a number of points. I come to the first point I would like to make. Energy suppliers who have a flat-rate fixed-cost pricing charged per year started under fixed-term contracts of more than one year will no longer charge the consumer, from the second year onwards, in full, who will terminate his delivery agreement in advance. The third year will reduce this amount. If the agreement is renewed or renewed after a period of time, the amount charged on the billing invoice shall never exceed the reduced amount of the last year of the initial contract. Some considered this to be insufficient. Mr Dierick referred to it. My view is that we have taken an important step with this new agreement. I would like to remind you that we are talking about a code of conduct. This is a set of voluntary commitments from companies towards consumers. We have had a lot of meetings in order to take that step, by those who had to be moved to do so. The analysis carried out by the FPS Economy on this flat-rate flat-rate remuneration led to the conclusion that it is not contrary to the rules. Should I have received any other advice, I could of course have or should have responded in another way. If the FPS Economy tells me it's not conflicting, we're in a different context. Indeed, this remuneration is a tariff component and not a compensation for termination. That was the clear position of the FPS Economy. Despite that, we have managed, as I have just explained, to reduce that fee in time. Secondly, in future, in situations of sales outside the company, including when the seller visits the consumer at home, a price simulation will always be made. In principle, it will be based on the real consumption of consumers. Only when this information is not available will the seller be able to rely on the average consumption according to the type of customer. The consumer will receive a document containing all the details of the price simulations made. So there are three points. First of all, there is always a price simulation. It happens, secondly, on the basis of reality. Thirdly, there is a material track. In the case of telephone sales, there is no obligation to always make a price simulation. The consumer who calls has often already informed himself well. However, if a price simulation is made, the rules mentioned above must be observed. Fourthly, account is taken of the transition that is taking place in the energy market. For the first time, the Code of Conduct also includes provisions on supply contracts containing other goods or services, such as insurance, maintenance and technical interventions, energy scans or smart thermostats. It is ensured that the consumer is very clearly informed and knows the fate of the other goods and services when he/she terminates his/her contract with regard to the supply of gas or electricity. Fifth, the tariff cards will remain permanently available. It tackles one of the problems that can hinder energy supplier change. Often the consumer no longer knows which tariffs apply to his contract. As long as there are consumers bound by a particular contract, the tariff card applicable to that contract will remain available. Consumers will always be able to find them in their digital customer area or get them from their supplier. Sixthly, in the future, the consumer to whom the energy supplier had asked for a guarantee of payment will be able to ask for its refund earlier. Until now, it was only possible at the end of the contract. From now on, the consumer who pays his invoices promptly for one year and has no outstanding debts will be able to ask for the refund. Seventhly, it ensures that the consumer has effective enough time to pay the invoice he receives. Today it can be different, because it happens that a long time passes between the formatting of an invoice or the invoice date and its shipping. Suppliers shall undertake to ensure that the shipment takes place no later than three days after the invoice date. Eighthly, in addition to what I have already mentioned, there are several measures to increase transparency for consumers. In this context, I would like to mention that consumers are encouraged to compare prices. For example, in the event of a contract renewal and in the annual communication of its supplier's cheapest product, the consumer will be explicitly and prominently informed that he can check through the regulator's website what is the cheapest rate. Finally, in order to avoid unpleasant surprises, the consumer will be informed in a clear and visible manner of the costs charged in the event of default, irrespective of the general terms and conditions. In my view, I have indicated the most remarkable innovations. There has certainly been a step forward in the field of consumer protection. The various changes in transparency make it easier for consumers to compare suppliers. There are therefore several new elements that should help consumers to know that they can easily compare the offers made by energy suppliers. The consumer can also find the details of his current contract. We offer instruments to help consumers to operate on the market, so that the fight against dormant contracts can be waged. As has already been said, a code of conduct is a set of voluntary commitments. That doesn't mean they're noncommittal. Non-compliance by a signatory is an unfair commercial practice which can be prosecuted in criminal matters. The Economic Inspectorate supervises. That supervision is a permanent mission. This code of conduct is consistent with Book VI of the Code of Economic Law. I do not share the interpretation of the Energy Ombudsman that a flat-rate fixed fee would be a hidden termination fee. The analysis of the administration on this matter concluded, as I said, that a flat-rate flat-rate fee is not contrary to the provisions of the Energy Act and to the termination fee. The ombudsperson must resolve disputes, taking into account existing legal rules. I think it is important that the service should be associated with the analysis and the views of the competent administration, which I must also do. I am aware of the question raised from different angles in order to intervene in the area of flat-rate compensation charged per year beginning. That is why I put this point on the table. These consultations led to energy suppliers imposing a number of rules on themselves. With all these elements, I do not intend to intervene any further today, given the legal analysis made so clearly by the FPS Economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic753x.u11	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer. Indeed, the agreement is concluded on a voluntary basis, which means that the consumer is even more protected than is legally possible. I think you have handled this very well, in consultation. It is very strong that 17 energy suppliers have closed this down. I'm also reassured about the flat-rate payment. The Ombudsman says that this is not legal, but the FPS Economy has been able to make a clear analysis confirming that this is indeed legal. I hope this doesn't work too well.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic753x.u12	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer. We shall read that in the report. I would like to make one more comment. You say that we can make a comparison via a website, but we must assume that a certain part of the population does not have the necessary digital tools or is not involved in the digital revolution; they cannot therefore make that analysis ourselves, which we can do.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic753x.u13	Deputy Prime Minister, in previous parliamentary questions, I had already had the opportunity to question you about the health risks associated with the use of solar benches. The Economic Inspectorate revealed the results of the checks you ordered. These are particularly eloquent since a 25% increase in infringements is observed, or a quarter more, in the first half of 2017. You had already expanded the legislative and regulatory arsenal at your disposal in order to better regulate the use of these solar benches. This is evidenced in particular by the forthcoming ban on advertising as to their beneficial effects and the requirement, as early as 2019, to be provided with a medical certificate attesting to the safe use of these devices. However, given the health hazards of repeated and/or prolonged exposure to UV radiation emitted by these devices, the increase in the number of violations and the recommendations of the Higher Health Council, are you satisfied with the results of the checks carried out since the beginning of the year? Are the provisions to increase such controls on the agenda or under consideration? Many protective measures have already been taken. Are you planning on taking new ones? If so, by what order?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic753x.u14	Minister, I also refer to the opinion of the High Health Council, which states that any use, however small and extraordinary, would increase the risk of cancer. The High Health Level says that a prevention campaign against skin cancer coupled with a total ban on solar bench use could avoid six thousand deaths over fifty years. In addition, a prevention campaign could reduce health costs by EUR 27.7 million and by a total ban on solar banks by EUR 238 million. In February 2015, my colleague Mr Detiège and I asked you a question about this once before. When it appeared that the vast majority of solar banks did not comply with the rules. You gave the following answer, among other things. I quote: "I have given the order to bring an action for strike in the event of infringements, which is possible under the Code of Economic Law. This was also communicated to the sector. We will not be messed with and there will be tough action in the event of infringements, especially as regards health risks. We are now 2017, Minister, more than two years after your ruling. Among other things, the High Health Council notes that there are still few companies in order to regulate. What are your findings after reading the report of the Supreme Health Council? In the meantime, you have also stated that you are not thinking of banning solar banks. Can you give the reasons for that? Is there any discussion on this with your colleague from Health, Mrs De Block? Or do you take a number of other measures in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic753x.u15	Minister, I had put a question to you, but also to Minister De Block. However, I see that they have been merged and that both have been assigned to you. Mr Minister, the High Health Council calls for a ban on solar banks because the risk of skin cancer is real and recommends that the population be informed objectively and transparently about the risks of UV radiation in general and the risks of UV radiation produced by solar banks. You yourself responded in the media that you will not follow the advice of the Supreme Health Council, because you fear that consumers will quickly return to solariums at home, where there is even less control. You have promised to carry out more checks. Last year it was 199 and this year we are at 150. That is not so many, and it should be a little more, unless you have a different opinion. You also said that the conditions of operation would be stricter and that, as with cigarettes, there would be a health warning. First of all, I don't understand why you're worried that solarium use would increase at home. Wouldn't it be better to ban the sale of solar banks to private individuals? That's the problem. Secondly, we cannot get the impression that there is a solar panel lobby at work, such as the tobacco lobby and the pharmaceutical lobby. Do you think the security measures you are proposing are sufficient? What security measures will you take? What about the controls? Finally, you may have held a consultation with the Minister for Health. Is she on the same line as you or does she have a different opinion on this? What's the outcome of the meeting?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic753x.u16	Mr. President, Minister, the Superior Council of Health (SHC) has issued a new opinion on solar benches, the first since 2000. The new opinion clearly advocates the removal of sunbeds and all publicly available artificial UV-emitting devices, in particular because it has been scientifically proven that exposure to UV radiation can cause skin cancer and eye diseases, but also because some people develop a pathological dependence called tanorexia. As a reminder, the Cancer Foundation had previously argued for this ban. Despite all the warnings already issued, despite the knowledge of the harms and dangers of solar banks, use remains in Belgium. The CSS also noted that the checks carried out in tanning centres showed that few were in order or provided accurate information. Of the 199 centres inspected last year, only 12 were in order. It's pretty catastrophic. Minister, what is your view of this problem, which we believe is serious? Have you considered the elements put forward by the CSS? Are initiatives being considered by the government in the direction of a ban? Few centres are in order. What measures are being taken against centres that are not? What initiatives are envisaged in order to urge the centres to be in order? During the transition period until the effective ban on solar benches, as well as thereafter, the CSS recommends that the general public be informed in an objective and transparent manner about UV risks in general. What progress has been made in this regard? It would appear that you have raised the matter with the European Commissioner for the Internal Market, Mrs Elюbieta Bieńkowska. Can you tell us what is apparent from this exchange? Have any proposals been discussed? Compared with other European countries, the solar bench is widely used in Belgium. Can we learn from our European partners?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic753x.u17	Mr President, Minister, my colleagues have recalled the framework, the opinion of the Superior Council of Health and the opinion of the Foundation against Cancer. I would like to recall a number. Every day, Minister, today, for example, we discover in Belgium seven to eight new melanomas. It's huge. I have read the opinions, I have seen your reaction and the repeated reactions of FeBelSol, the Belgian Federation of Solarium Operators. I also heard that you wanted to move forward, with the European Commissioner in particular, in the discussion on standards at European level. All this is good. I would like to know where you are in these discussions with the European Commissioner, but beyond these, the problem is not just a matter of standards. The stakes are what is done on the ground on a daily basis, on a voluntary or involuntary basis, I don't care; it's the results that interest me.We have a real problem here. A significant number of women, although male cases are increasing, clearly suffer from overdose in the use of solar benches. Involuntarily there is a form of acceptance of this phenomenon. Nobody says stop clearly. Some shop between solar bench centres. This makes control difficult and complicated. That being said, I would like to take you a little further on the subject of the famous codes of conduct, quality labels and controls put in place by the Federation itself. What is FeBelSol's representation in relation to the number of registered centres? What percentage of registered centres are members of the Federation? The Commission itself implements controls. How many of them are there? What conclusions does it draw? What penalties, if any, are imposed on operators in breach? You have advanced in the drafting of a royal decree that you expected to see approved in early September. If I'm not mistaken, he's been adopted since then. This is an opportunity to take stock again today. I would like to stress a significant gap. While these are not solar benches at home, there is a gap between standards and concrete reality. For me, the spearhead must be used there; failing that, it will have to be extremely ambitious and the only decision that will be required will be that advocated by the Higher Council of Health and the Foundation against Cancer. The only alternative to removing solar banks is, in my view, to be much more ambitious in view of the gap between standards and actual application on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic753x.u18	Mrs. Van Hoof, if you'll excuse me, I forgot about you. It's my fault. You will now have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic753x.u19	Thank you, Mr President, for your apologies. Minister, I will not repeat what colleagues have already said about the long-awaited opinion of the High Health Council on solar banks. It is quite amazing that a ban is finally being imposed. Although, of course, it is not surprising to read the book published this year by the Foundation against Cancer, about the impact of solar banks on the skin and on skin cancer. You have been following the solarium sector closely for a very long time. You tried to work out a code of conduct together, but when you failed to do so, you forced them to register the solariums at hairdressers or wellness centres, which, by the way, was in line with a bill I tabled. In this way, a better inspection had to be made possible. However, the inspections carried out clearly show that the current rules are not being complied with at all. The situation is very worrying. That is why, in September, you imposed stricter rules through a royal decree, and the conditions of operation also became stricter. You will also launch an awareness campaign on the risk of using the solarium. That is absolutely necessary, because I feel that people have not been informed at all about their impact. Minister, I would like to ask you a few questions about this. Have you discussed the advice of the Supreme Health Council with the sector? What's the result of that? What measures do they impose on themselves as a result of this report? You also met with Commissioner Bienkowska on radiation standards for solar banks. What was the result of this conversation? Finally, are there any European countries currently considering banning solar banks? After all, if it remains easy to buy a solarium in the countries around us, then they are still as far away.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic753x.u20	Minister, my question was mainly to your colleague Mr.Ducarme, but it was wisely added to the agenda of this meeting. I will not go back to the health aspect, which has been beautifully mentioned by my colleagues. The self-employed who have invested in the solar bench sector are experiencing difficulties in economic and human terms - because I do not dispute any of the arguments put forward by my colleagues in the area of health. The closure of their centres would be detrimental to the operators. Minister, have you imagined a plan B? How many tanning centres would be affected by the measures taken? How many small and medium-sized enterprises does this sector count? What is the number of jobs affected? As a result of the regulatory developments as set out in the Royal Order, are you considering taking steps to help operators convert to one or more other activities? If so, which ones? Have you undertaken any reflections in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic753x.u21	Thank you, Mr. de Lamotte. Minister, we look to you to listen to your responses to these many interventions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic753x.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a sensitive and important dossier, on which many questions have been asked in the past. I have already taken many initiatives in this area, which I will explain further. All the questions that have been asked in the past have been taken very seriously and I have taken a number of actions. Of course, I have taken note of the opinion of the High Health Council, which is in line with the previous report of the Scientific Committee on Health, Environmental and Emerging Risks, abbreviated SCHER, which comes to an even stronger conclusion by stating that solar banks are better banned. I have also taken note of the results of the study of Test Purchasing. To put it clearly, I do not intend to prohibit the operation of solar bench centres on the grounds that this would entail the risk of greater private ownership of solar benches and that, therefore, control would not be possible. For me, that's not an argument. So let me make it clear that I am not going for a total ban on the operation of solariums. Some of the authors have said that the argument of private ownership of solar banks is not decisive. I am assuming that we must take this seriously, because we can have less control over it in the event of a total ban. That is why I am not in favour of banning the exploitation of solar power stations at the moment. Solar banks complying with the requirements of the European Low Voltage Directive and with the harmonised standard, which determines, inter alia, maximum radiation, shall be considered safe. In this way they can circulate freely on the single market and it is therefore not evident that they should be prohibited. I have argued to the European Commissioner for a European approach to the sale of solar banks, which, as I said, can circulate freely in the single market. It has confirmed that it too is taking the matter seriously and also wants to take further steps. So I also advocate action at European level because, especially if we go beyond what I am now proposing, it is best done within a European framework. I would also like to endorse the policy of the Minister for Health with regard to tobacco by not imposing a ban but other measures, with a specific reference to the dangers of smoking. What I learned from the opinion is that tightening up the rules is absolutely necessary and justified. So let us be very clear about this: the situation as it existed is unacceptable and there must be action. Some Members of this House are calling for a general ban. I'm not going along with that, but I am in favour of other measures. What measures have I taken? The rules governing the operation of solar centres are based on economic law, in particular on book IX of the Code of Economic Law, which falls exclusively within my competence. Meanwhile, a new royal decree has been published in the Belgian Official Journal of 2 October, which will bring into force a number of measures on 1 December of this year. All measures concerning stricter monitoring and tightening of operating conditions are taken to protect consumers and to discourage the use of solar centre services. I can assure you that the sector is experiencing the new measures as very difficult and wonders why all this is necessary. So there are two extremes: on the one hand, those who say that we should do nothing and, on the other hand, those who advocate a ban. With this royal decision, we have adopted a number of rather strict measures. The objective is to put an end to the massive violations of the rules which pose a danger to consumers. They must exclude the manipulations that can still happen today. What is regulation if it is not complied with if it is not checked? There was a large number of infringements in this sector, which is, of course, not acceptable. The sector is well aware that if it does not respect the measures, the discussion on a general ban will continue. The new decision provides for a substantial tightening of the conditions of use for solar centres: firstly, a prohibition to advertise the beneficial effects of the use of solar banks; secondly, an unambiguous warning in the advertising and in the centres, in particular that the use of solar banks promotes cancer, in particular skin cancer; thirdly, rules which prevent any possibility of manipulating the access and activation of solar banks; fourthly, an automatic control system for solar centres so that the rules relating to the duration of sessions, the adaptation to the skin type and the time between sessions are strictly respected; fifthly, the determination of the skin type combined with the determination of skin sensitivity at each visit or determination of the skin type by a doctor. All solar centres as defined in the Royal Decree are endorsed by the measure. As a reminder, once one solarium is run, the company is considered a solar centre. I do not foresee a support measure for the sector in line with the new operating conditions. I assume that the explicit health message in advertising or in a solar centre will prevent consumers from using this service. If a doctor interferes with the determination of the skin type, he will undoubtedly also indicate to his patient the risks associated with UV radiation. Following the advice of the Supreme Health Council, I sent for FeBelSol at the end of June 2017. The federation can go along with a thorough automation of solar centers, which, according to them, will lead to professionalisation. FeBelSol bought its own equipment to measure the radiation from the solariums. This service is now offered to solar centres for a fee. The Federation had also asked for consultations with the Economic Inspectorate. That has taken place in the meantime. FeBelSol has informed me that she has about 200 members. This is a limited number in relation to the total number of solar centres in Belgium. The correct number of centers is not known. The figures I can give you come from the Crossroads Bank of Enterprises, in which 966 companies are registered with a specific NACE BEL code. It comprises a total of 1 073 establishment units. I cannot specify how many SMEs are involved, but I believe that the vast majority of them are SMEs. I do not have any figures on employment either. The Federation has stopped its mystery shopping. It has recently offered the possibility of pre-control to solar centres. In doing so, compliance with the Royal Decree, including the radiation from the solariums, shall be verified. About 70 solar centres have already requested such pre-control. About 500 sunbeds were checked. The checks carried out by the Economic Inspectorate indicate that compliance with the legal obligations remains problematic. From this I believe I can conclude that the efforts made by FeBelSol with the quality label and the code of conduct do not yet have the expected effects. I would remind you of the sanctions in the event of a violation: a fine of EUR 208 to EUR 200 000 and the seizure of solariums or the entire solar centre. On 11 April 2017, I wrote to Minister De Block to inform her of the measures I proposed, in particular those on skin type assessment. On 3 July 2017, I reminded her of these things. I have not yet received a response. Of course, I cannot answer in her place either. I myself have taken the necessary steps. The FPS Economy has launched an information campaign for consumers. This campaign was launched in early April. A brochure with question and answer was prepared. A specific page was created on the website of the FPS Economy. The consumer shall be informed of the dangers arising from exposure to ultraviolet radiation. During May, campaigns were conducted through social media to raise consumer awareness. The meeting, which was scheduled with Commissioner Bienkowska at the end of June, was not possible. I did meet her on September 19th. I discussed with her the comments made by the Commission in the context of the notification procedure under Directive No. 2015/1535. These comments were not intended to prevent the imposition of stricter standards on solar banks. It is difficult to make comparisons at international level since this is a domain, namely the operation of solar centres, for which there is no harmonised regulation. I do feel that our country is a precursor to consumer protection at European level. I have no knowledge of initiatives taken by other Member States to ban solar banks. As I have already pointed out, a ban on solariums in the European context is not clear. According to the information provided by the FPS, there is already a ban on the use of sunbeds by young people under the age of 18 in Germany and Denmark. Poland would have recently adopted a similar scheme. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a very important and delicate dossier which many Members of this House, quite rightly, follow very closely. Moreover, this is a sector which, certainly in the past, was not so close to regulation. We have taken a number of initiatives, with the most far-reaching measure being the royal decision that was issued on 2 October. By analogy with what happens for cigarettes, consumers should be informed by a clear label about the fact that the use of solariums can promote skin cancer. We then had very clear discussions with the sector to point out that the playing time is over and that the rules must be applied very seriously. Finally, we have also taken an initiative from the European Commissioner to raise the issue further at European level. I hope that with all these actions we will come up with a regulation that can reduce the number of cases of skin cancer caused by the use of solariums and that we have also contributed to this by means of these measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic753x.u23	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for the various elements of your response. The number of colleagues who are interested in the subject and regularly follow it attests, after debate, to a collective awareness. We have seen an evolution and awareness of this issue and the dangers posed by the misuse of this type of device. You told us we weren't talking about a ban yet. However, measures have been taken to strengthen existing arrangements, although at present we cannot judge positive effects on the ground. Perhaps the measures will have to be tightened and we will have to carry out their constant evaluation. The issue is delicate and, as you suggest, we will have to consider taking action at European level. We can only encourage you in this direction, which is the only possibility to benefit from strong mechanisms to deal with this problem. Of course, not everything is black in this case, given the changing attitudes towards public health and consumer protection. We will all remain attentive and engaged in addressing these issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic753x.u24	Mr President, Minister, I am sure you will take this matter seriously. It would be irresponsible behavior, should it not be. I am sure that is the case. A number of initiatives have clearly been taken since our last interplay on this subject. I have some reservations about your answers. Firstly, you are not in favour of a ban because it would happen too much in private and there would be less control over it. When a ban on exploitation is imposed, a ban on sales is also put in place. I think this would be possible if the European single market were not there. I'm very sensitive to that argument. My first recommendation is to continue to weigh on Europe to jointly adopt strict measures to limit the health damage caused by solariums. Secondly, when I hear all the measures included in the Royal Decree, I am already partially reassured. These are indeed major steps that had not been taken a few years ago. Determining the skin type should be done by a doctor? In what way? I don't quite understand that. Does anyone have to go to the doctor to get their skin type determined? Can't he go under the sunbed without a doctor's certificate? Is that the point? [[The Minister nods in agreement.]] That is a very good measure. I am pleased that in a number of Member States there is a ban on going under the sunbed under 18 years. I am well aware that we cannot control this privately, but it is a signal that it is dangerous and that we must pay attention to it. Perhaps measures could be taken in this direction. I believe that the main work should be done at European level. Minister, I am counting on you to continue to negotiate this with Europe. At least we'll follow up on the file up close.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic753x.u25	Mr President, Minister, I have two positive points to make. You are working on European consultation, which is absolutely necessary in the dossier. So that's a good thing. I am also positive about the conditions of operation, which you have very much intertwined. However, I also notice in your reply that you say that auto-regulation does not work perfectly and can do much better. You have given various examples of this. In a more implicit way, therefore, you will make that clear to me. Compliance with the conditions in the sector is still problematic. I can therefore imagine that you should be moderately frustrated, especially as you are trying hard to do so in your capacity as Minister. I would therefore think more about what you can do if the measures do not work. I myself wonder whether you should not consider drawing the map of a ban and weighing it up in order to make it possible to ban it through European efforts. You did not give a specific answer to the question of more checks or the number of checks. I don't need to get a grade on that. However, if auto-regulation does not deliver what it is intended to yield, you must remove the stick behind the door and invest in more controls. You have warned the sector itself that the playing time is over. However, they do not care too much about your words or have no control over their troops. I'll put it that way. I'm sure the dome will do its best. So something more needs to be done. Finally, I had also put a question to Minister De Block, who has now been added to the questions addressed to you. However, you will not receive an answer from Minister De Block. So it's a little ping-pong. I am therefore not much with it when my question is added to your questions and you in turn receive no answer from Minister De Block. I do not know to what extent you sit next to, far from her or directly across from her at the government table on Friday. Maybe you could ask her at the time. Otherwise, we are sitting here playing ping-pong.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic753x.u26	Minister, like my colleagues, I thank you for your answer and for the seriousness with which you are following this file. I understand your strategy: no total ban to allow maximum control. So far, in about 90% of the checks performed, users do not comply with the regulations. The figures mentioned by Mrs Fonck are quite eloquent and sad to see. If your intention is to work on a strengthened control strategy to improve the situation, I would argue for a near-zero tolerance in the use of equipment that is truly a poison for health. Skin cancer is very serious and painful. If we do not ban, we must take measures that are of exemplary severity.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic753x.u27	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, the European approach is indeed the right way forward. As for the tobacco industry, a European directive is needed in the long term. It is good that you continue to argue for that. All over the world, only Brazil and Australia have banned solariums. Meanwhile, you are doing your best to make it clear to consumers that they should not be tempted to go to a solarium. I think that is a good thing, because there is no safe use of solarium, just as there is no safe smoking, and there can only be a slight reduction in the risk. You do this well by reducing its attractiveness, through advertising, by making it more difficult to access it and through doctor's notes. Perhaps a measure could be considered later on in relation to affordability, as was the case in the tobacco dossier. In the meantime, it's good to increase control. Hopefully, this will put further pressure on the sector to reduce the risks.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic753x.u28	Minister, you are Minister of Employment and the Economy, but I think that in such a case, the responsibility of the government is first and foremost the health aspect. If we approach this issue with the lorgnette of Minister of Economy and Employment, we are next to the plate. The cost of melanoma to people in their personal capacity, to public health, to the state budget, to the employment budget – in sickness stops – is enormous. If we have few levers for cancer prevention, we have others that are very effective. As for melanoma, there is only one: the sun. But you still don't have a power over this one. But you have power on the solar benches. I can hear your thoughts on the benches at home. I'm much more worried about possible pirate or clandestine benches. In the royal decree, you strengthened a series of rules. That seems obvious to me. Imagine that the controls and codes of conduct are going to be effective, I don't believe it. With the pre-October rules, there was only a tiny minority of people in order. Let us acknowledge that the federation working with its members represents only one fifth of the sector. The rest of it escapes! Your order contains good things but I ask to see how they will be applied. You reinforce the demands but a whole bunch of sanctions is missing. As long as there are no radical sanctions for those who are outlawed, you will not succeed. In a year or two, it will be said that there is a beautiful royal decree but in practice there will be only a minority who will be punished. When I speak of radical punishment, I speak of closure! We do not want a global ban, but a one-off ban. I would like to put a second suggestion on the table concerning controls. On the question of controls, you must give yourself an encrypted objective. Given what is being done today and that around 90% of companies do not comply with the Royal Decree, it must be possible to have a semi-annual control in each solar bench company. As long as they do not feel the breath of the regulator behind their backs, overexposures will remain frequent and intense. We will have no effective leverage in the prevention of melanoma. I can't help but see it as a public health issue. That's the priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic753x.u29	Minister, my questions have not been answered. They were more economical in that they envisaged the possibility of aid for the reclassification of operators in this sector. I'm still hungry. I understand and share the problem of health care, but if there are sanctions, there should also be possibilities for retraining. I draw your attention to the fact that we can't do one without the other.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic753x.u30	Colleagues, our next question-and-answer session will take place on the afternoon of November 8.
