ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u2	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, no one is immune from displacement. In fact, I had planned to ask Minister Borsus my question, who could potentially be displaced! But, that's it, it's with you that I'll deal with this issue. Let us, however, be attentive to the protection of working conditions! If I ask you today, Minister, it is because the Federation of Construction reminds us once again of the need to take their situation into account. Construction companies go bankrupt one after the other. However, this is not due to a lack of activity in the construction sector. The number of workers is constantly decreasing, and all this is linked to unfair competition which we European countries have organised by adopting the first provisions on the posting of certain workers. Successive methods of repair try to see the light of day, but the minimum wage guaranteed to construction workers must be at least 14 or 15 euros per hour in Belgium, and this wage must be preserved! It is necessary to take into account collective agreements and not to include the accommodation costs of displaced workers in their remuneration. These materials must be worked out. What construction also highlights is a permanent loss of 10% of our workers. However, these 10 per cent represent 200,000 workers. If we want to fight unfair competition, we must allow ourselves to reduce social contributions in this labour-intensive sector. But it doesn't matter how: by ensuring this salary, compliance with collective agreements, the dignity of workers, the maintenance and creation of jobs, and this, through this reduction in social contributions. Today, you are in budget discussions. A small sentence says: "The 600 million needed to do this are part of our reflections and our discussions." Today I would like to have more precise information on how you deal with this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u3	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Belgium is unfortunately one of the countries most affected by social dumping, which accounts for 3% of the volume of employment, which is enormous. The construction sector is now calling for a specific competitiveness shock for its sector, the aim of which will be both to preserve the 20 000 jobs but also to create 25 000 additional ones. Cost: EUR 600 million. If I'm not mistaken, minister, that was in your 2015 government agreement. We are now in 2017. Where are we? Do you keep that course? If so, will you move forward? With what types of devices? It's not that simple. How will you fund this plan? In any event, this competitive shock will not, of course, prevent an overbidding by posted workers and, above all, by companies employing posted workers in order to reduce wage costs. Moreover, this will not prevent problems in other sectors such as cleaning or transport. It is therefore equally fundamental to be able to tackle the problem at the bottom with stronger ambitions and decisions that can be taken in Belgium, at the level of the Social Inspectorate, a service which has been strengthened but whose controls and sanctions are insufficient to achieve a high level of repression that will break the vicious circle. Decisions can also be taken at the level of the European Directive. As you know, a proposal for a revision has been made, with much stricter conditions on the posting of workers. What is Belgium's position on this matter? What is Belgium doing and what will it do to advance this European directive and to ensure that the conditions are much stricter and stricter? Every day we lose new jobs because of this social dumping. We must have much stronger means and ambitions!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you are right to stress the importance of the construction sector, which is a very important sector for employment, the economy and businesses. Like you, I know very well the difficulties that he is facing, because I have invited several times this sector as well as those of transport, e-commerce, etc. The problems are complex not only in Belgium but also in Europe. We have planned – as you have pointed out on several occasions – in the context of the tax shift, an amount of EUR 600 million for 2020. I have also tried to find a solution in terms of wage costs for construction as well as for other sectors. The proposal is now on the table of the Council of Ministers. As I said, the aim is to find a solution as quickly as possible, not only for the sector mentioned above, but also for other sectors to which Mrs Fonck referred. At European level, we have had a very difficult discussion with many Member States. But Mrs Thyssen, who is competent in this area, said that we are going to try to find a solution within the framework of the EPSCO which will take place in October 2017. The task will not be easy, but I am convinced that, thanks to Mrs Thyssen's proposals and bilateral contacts, we will be able to find an answer to this problem. For the rest, you are right to say that social dumping is a very important problem, especially for Belgium. Together with my colleagues, and in particular with my colleague Philippe De Backer, I am working to find solutions in the inspection sector, but also to take various initiatives at Belgian level to combat social dumping in certain sectors. In conclusion, Mr President, I hope that we will find a lasting and acceptable solution at European level to reduce the cost of wages in the construction sector as well as in other sectors.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u5	Mr Minister, on the one hand, your answer is positive: we will try to find lasting solutions. On the other hand, if I try to dissect your answer, I would say that it does not contain much in terms of concrete measures and commitments. Will you invest energy to defend a decent minimum hourly wage of 14 or 15 euros? Will you defend the respect, in future European negotiations, of collective agreements, not only international but also Belgian to guarantee precisely this remuneration? Will you require the monitoring and evaluation of the scope of the measures you could take to reduce the cost through a reduction in social contributions? My last point is a little outside the scope of your skills. Are you going to review the legislation on public procurement where Belgium, unfortunately, did not seize the opportunity of the European Union, according to which one may not limit itself to the lowest price to grant a contract in particular in construction? Belgium has retained this provision. It thus opens, or it keeps the door completely open to social dumping since a person can be paid at the lowest possible rate to carry out work.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u6	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. You are talking about an agreement for 2020, but if I read the agreement that had been reached in your government, we were talking about 2020, but we were also talking clearly about being able to make a decision on this competitiveness shock long before 2020. As you know, you will have to notify the European Commission. In this respect, it is in your best interest to work quickly because if you decide late, the time to notify and wait for the response of the European Commission may take some time. In addition, you have a colleague, President Macron, in France, who has said that he is very much in favour of putting all his energy into re-examining, if I may say so, the secondment directive. It would therefore be good, beyond Commissioner Marianne Thyssen, to work with other partner countries to put pressure, as it is known, some countries are still resisting this. Finally, at the level of the Social Inspectorate, we will see whether the reform is likely to lead to setbacks. It entered into force only on 1 July. I would also like to present you today with a proposal for a law, which really makes it possible to have an automatic exclusion of public contracts for those who, in fact, do not strictly respect, in a very clear way, the whole package which includes wage costs. I believe that this would also, in a number of cases, reduce social dumping.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u7	Minister of the Interior, a few weeks ago, the majority voted on your private security project, a project that the Socialist Group had denounced. You know our point of view, even if everything is not to be excluded in this matter. We were already concerned, at the time, about the consequences for volunteers in cultural activities, including festivals. These festivals cover the whole country: the Flemish Region, the Walloon Region, Brussels. One example is the festival "Les Ardentes", in the city of Liège, which involves some 1,800 volunteers. It is therefore with a certain interest that we learned in the press that the Flemish association of festival organizers was to meet you yesterday at your office, at the request of the Governor of Eastern Flanders, to plead the cause of the volunteers. Have you ever received the festival sector before the law was passed? You saw, on the other hand, that of the private guard. On the other hand, did you have any contact with the Francophone organizers? What is the status of volunteers under your new legislation? If you met them, how did this meeting take place with all the organizers?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u8	Deputy Prime Minister, "Brussels Summer Festival", "Colour Café", Dour, "Les Ardentes", "Rock Werchter", "Tomorrowland", "Les Francofolies", our country has many festivals, of excellent quality and of international reputation, which gather tens of thousands of people from all over Europe and sometimes even from beyond the world each summer. This dynamic has a positive impact on the economy and in particular on Horeca. However, in the current context, the supervision and security of these major popular events pose many questions. First of all, let us talk about the context of the terrorist threat. Due to their mostly young audience and the type of cosmopolitan and festive event, festivals are prime targets. Then, the cancellation of the 2018 edition of the great Swedish festival "Bravalla", due to the numerous sexual assaults committed a few weeks ago, highlighted the issue of the behaviour of some festivalgoers and the need to protect other participants and spectators. The press has also reported cases of sexual assault on sites and campsites at some festivals in our country. Deputy Prime Minister, it is obviously important to develop high standards of safety and comfort in and around festivals. In concrete terms, the aim is to ensure a safe and high-quality reception and the well-being of the participants. It is also important to maintain the reputation of our festivals, which is currently excellent. I come to my questions. Deputy Prime Minister, what security framework is currently in place for festivals? Have the measures been intensified this year? How many police officers are mobilized for this purpose this summer? Are there any differences in security depending on the festivals, but also on the regions and police areas concerned? What contacts have been established between the organization and the security services? In the current terrorist context, have any specific measures been taken this year to secure the surroundings of festivals? With regard to the risk of sexual assault, which I was talking about at the moment, is there a strengthening of security measures on the agenda? Have the organizers been made aware of this specific issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u9	Colleagues, these two questions relate to the same subject but have a different tone. Mr Demeyer, as regards the consultation with the sectors on volunteers, it is true that after the passing of the law, the organizers of major festivals expressed some concerns. Previously, we did not consult with them, because they were not involved. I'll explain why earlier. In fact, in reality, nothing changes for them. I can reassure them. I met the organizers of the Flemish festivals because they asked. It is clear that if the other organizers ask to meet me, my doors are open. I hope that in a few weeks they will be closed for a few days, but normally they are open. What does that mean? In the Private Guardianship Act, the responsibility that can be attributed to volunteers and private guardians has not changed in the organization of major festivals. What is the need for private guarding? First of all for access control, with a view to detecting weapons and dangerous objects. It's, say, the search. Clearly, we do not want volunteers to do this. The control of tickets and bracelets remains assigned to volunteers and there is no problem, but if one really wants to control the wearing of weapons and other things, it is not for volunteers. Secondly, guarding and security in the strict sense of the term. Especially watching the audience to see what's going on. Thirdly, it is a matter of monitoring the place, at night or in the morning, when no one is there. Finally, agents can serve as bodyguards for artists, but that was already planned. All other tasks can be performed by volunteers. We haven't changed anything. I met Mr. Briers. The organisers – Flemish, Brussels and Walloon – are now reassured and will all be kept informed in the same way. Mr Calomne, the safety of the festivals is of concern to everyone. In terms of the level of the threat, nothing has changed since last year: we are still at level 3, which in this case concerns soft targets. For this summer, we have taken over last year's measures. Initially, the local police are responsible for the security assessment. On the basis of the analysis, it determines the appropriate means. The local corps can organize what is necessary itself, but they can also ask for the reinforcement of the federal police. In particular with regard to sexual violence, they are integrated into the risk analysis with a view to providing the necessary measures to prevent them. In summary, we have not changed anything from what was put in place last year, because the level of threat and the type of threat are the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u10	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your clarification. I note that in this sector, which occupies a great place in our economy, you have made sure that you do not shift responsibilities. This may explain why the interested parties were not consulted a priori. I can hear it. On the other hand, I understand that your firm did not have the reflex to collaborate with the Association francophone des organisateurs de festival, but that you were ready to meet with its members. I will not fail to relay this information. They will probably come to you to be reassured as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u11	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. I note the various actions already undertaken and the coordination between local police and federal police to ensure security in and around festivals. On this national holiday eve, it is symbolically important to highlight the creative assets of our country, recognized in Europe and the world for the quality and diversity of its festivals. As public officials, we must continue to support and encourage these initiatives by ensuring a safe and comfortable environment so that Belgian and foreign festivalgoers can enjoy these festive moments in peace. I conclude by saying that these popular demonstrations must remain a party. While security is paramount, we must also ensure the necessary balance with freedom. Mr Deputy Prime Minister, Europe is also freedom!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u12	Minister, once again there are migrants camping near the Maximilian Park in Brussels. In a few weeks' time, the number of illegal immigrants would have grown from a few dozen to almost 300. Unlike two years ago, when the Maximilian Park was the largest tent camp ever in this country, it is not about people who want to apply for asylum, but about transit migrants. They do not apply for asylum or have a legal right to receive asylum. The reaction of Secretary of State Francken, whom I was allowed to read in the newspaper, was that those who do not want to be in Belgium must leave the territory. That's tough language, like we used to be from him. Unfortunately, words and deeds do not always match. My question is how will you achieve that? We find that this is not happening in practice. I have requested the figures of the number of transit migrants arrested in the ports of Zeebrugge and Ostend. This shows that in 2015 and 2016 an average of two thousand illegal immigrants were arrested annually, but more than 90% of them were released, whether or not with a paper to leave the territory, order which is barely followed. Minister, you say that you want to avoid the Maximilian park becoming an irreversible camp. My question is very simple. How will you do that? How will you realize that?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u13	Mr Penris, you must applaud Mrs Pas. I don't suppose you'll be applauding for me in a moment. However, one never knows. The miracles have not yet come to an end, especially at the last sitting of Parliament. Mrs Pas, you are right to point out that today's population in the Maximilian Park is different from that of two years ago. That's where asylum seekers come in. Today they are transit migrants, foreigners who do not even want to apply for asylum in this country and therefore do not belong there. What are we gonna do about this? Together with the local police in Brussels we perform daily. Checks are carried out every day. Every day they're told they can't stay here. There are regular actions, along with the DVZ, to take fingerprints among other things. We are therefore taking action against this. It's true that these people will disappear and come back a while later. In fact, they should be able to be deported. It's not always that simple. They come from Sudan, Eritrea, Ethiopia and Iraq, for example. It is not a coincidence that these are countries that are not prepared to give a laissez pass and to take back those asylum seekers. The Secretary of State and myself are working very hard to conclude an agreement with these countries that the withdrawal is indeed taking place. We did that for Morocco. Recently, we have been able to do that for Iraq. In the meantime, there are contacts with Sudan to speed things up and laissez-passers can be awarded so that their inhabitants can return if they do not wish to apply for asylum. We are talking about economic refugees, not political refugees. Repatriation is therefore appropriate. The Brussels FGP also addresses the issue because it is a result of human trafficking. Targeted research is therefore being carried out on human trafficking. In fact, there have already been successes in this area. However, as long as we cannot conclude agreements with the countries of origin so that they take back their compatriots, the revolving door problem will continue to exist. We can send those involved away, but they just come back. Once again, we are working hard to conclude return agreements with the countries of origin.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u14	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'm already glad you're not talking about reception centres, which could cause a suction effect. If I may believe the chairman of Samusocial, at the time he picked up 300 illegals from Calais at the request of Elke Sleurs. I can only welcome the fact that you are leaving that slope and working on expulsions. I understand that this is not always easy. Today the police are checking and patrolling, but they are leaving, as long as they have left in the morning. Such a policy of tolerance can always lead to the situation becoming out of control at a certain point in time. I'd like to ask you to step up. I have just referred to the figures for Ostend and Bruges. At least 4 % of all illegals arrested there were locked up for possible expulsion. I believe that this can be done much better, Minister. I wonder what is preventing you from effectively apprehending all the illegals in the Maximilian Park in order to allow for a possible expulsion.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u15	Mr President, Mr Vice-President, in the fight against terrorism, the sale of anonymous prepaid cards for mobile phones has been prohibited since December last year. We all passed that law here together. It was one of the 18 measures announced by the government in the fight against terrorism. Until early June, anonymous card owners had time to identify and register. Early this week, an investigating judge called the alarm. Criminals would easily circumvent registration and identification. Files seem to indicate that people would buy and resell multiple SIM cards for a fee. People would also lend their name for the registration of a SIM card and companies would not perform the identity check correctly. Apparently, these practices would be harsh and effective. The telecom operators and the sales outlets must, of course, carefully and correctly apply and implement the legislation we have adopted here together, in particular identification and registration. I have a few questions for you, Mr Vice-Prime Minister. How is it checked that telecom operators' outlets comply with the rules? How many samples have already been carried out on this subject? How many infringements were detected? How many files were delivered to the courthouse? Were fines issued by BIPT or licences withdrawn from mobile operators? My last and most important question, how will you deal with this problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u16	Mr Yüksel, first of all, I think you know the difference between an actual question and a written question. I cannot reply to a question about statistics on controls, but I can answer them in writing later. Apparently, there are two ways of circumventing the law. The first means that criminals convince people to buy tickets in their name. Those who do so are, of course, liable for criminal liability. It's impossible to control something like that. The fact that someone buys multiple SIM cards in the same name is therefore not always proof of bad faith. One sometimes has a SIM card for his phone, another one for his tablet and another one for another. The most important thing we can do about this is to sensitise people and, of course, to ensure that when the courts adopt such practices, they do take criminal action against them. The second means that outlets fraudulently use the identity of the previous buyer. The operator is responsible for the control. If the point of sale is owned by the operator, it is the operator's full responsibility to ensure that this does not happen. They shall be directly liable. When it comes to external outlets, it is items that have to be contractually enforced between the operator and the point of sale. The checks are carried out by the BIPT or by the judicial authorities. It is quite clear that, if there are still fraudulent outlets, this is a case of identity fraud. Identity fraud is clearly punishable and, of course, the judicial authorities must act against it. A number of operators have already been banned from selling SIM cards in the past. That was the case for Lycamobile, Carrefour, Taza and Vectone. Once they had settled, they were given the opportunity to sell cards again. There will be checks and criminal proceedings if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u17	Minister, the end of the anonymous SIM cards is an important step towards combating terrorism in our country. Of course, the system must be close, because the safety chain is only as strong as the weakest link. We need to detect and eliminate these weak links. We have passed an important law. That law must, of course, be monitored and adjusted. I think that the signal from the investigating judge is an important signal that telecom operators, as well as BIPT, must take to heart. I hope that checks will be carried out on this and that appropriate sanctions will be issued, otherwise the law will have little effect. Of course, figures are important, Minister. In particular, I wanted to see whether there were any active controls. I shall, of course, put another follow-up question to it in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, I have just asked the Registrar to call a number of ministers, namely Minister Reynders, Minister Geens and Minister Van Overtveldt. Minister Borsus is here, so I propose that we continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u19	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u20	I should hope so. I have done my duty, Mr Calvo. They're getting calls to come.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u21	Mr President, Minister, every citizen has the right to medical aid, and certainly urgent medical aid. The same applies to illegal residents. If they cannot pay for their own medical assistance, they can apply to the OCMW for an urgent medical card, so called that in the jargon............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In this way the doctor is also reimbursed for his performance. This in itself is a very fair system, but it is suspected that abuses have crept into the system. After all, the figures do not lie: in two years, from 2014 to 2016, expenditure on urgent medical assistance to illegal immigrants increased by as much as EUR 10 million, from EUR 45 million to EUR 55 million. However, this government, with the State Secretary present here, is committed to maintaining a strict but fair asylum and migration policy to reduce the number of illegal immigrants, which it is doing successfully. The success of the policy, on the one hand, while the costs in this area are so high, on the other, suggests that there is abuse. In my opinion, this abuse occurs in two areas, namely the illegals themselves, but also the doctors. An illegal medical card may be much more likely to go to a doctor with the least ailment, but perhaps the doctor is also much more likely to qualify the treatment as urgent, to make sure that his performance is compensated. For example, an ingrown or crooked toenail may be painful, but perhaps not something for which one immediately walks to the doctor and certainly not a condition that requires urgent medical care. There the shoe wrings, literally and figuratively. It is therefore understandable that we want to tackle this system, and in that respect we think it is very good, Minister, that a draft law is in place, as you have just said, in accordance with the strict but fair principle. We are pleased that you have come up with a solution, but we remain critical. We would like to know how you will organise that control. Who's gonna do it? In what way will you define urgent medical attention? What are the consequences for the doctors? Will they still want to carry out the necessary treatments under pressure from the control?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u22	Mr President, Mrs Smeyers, urgent medical aid is a fundamental right and part of the right to human dignity. On this point, the coalition agreement is clear, in the sense that the principle of urgent medical assistance is, of course, preserved. However, we note an increase in the cost of emergency medical care, as well as large differences between the municipalities in this respect. We must therefore provide a framework to avoid abuse. The government agreement therefore provides that the notion of urgency will be clarified, in consultation with medical experts, without leading to a list of diseases. The preliminary draft law, which I discussed with my colleague Mr De Block and Secretary of State Francken, and which I submitted to today's Council of Ministers, goes in this direction. A legal framework will be established to strengthen the verification of the certificates of urgent medical care carried out by the Auxiliary Cash for Sickness and Invalidity Insurance. This tightening will be done in two ways. Firstly, by creating the function of an auditor at the level of the Auxiliary Cash for Sickness and Invalidity Insurance; and secondly, by introducing a substantive check on the urgent aspect of medical assistance. For example, the inspector will now be able to check the medical content of the certificate and will be able to obtain the necessary medical reports to carry out his check. In the event of a negative check, I have provided for sanctions to address the various parties involved. For example, the sums unduly paid will be recovered, both at the level of the healthcare providers and at the level of the OMCW. I am absolutely in favour of real solidarity, but I am against abuse.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u23	Of course, Minister, we want to maintain the system of urgent medical assistance. That is a fundamental right. We don't want American situations. You have quite rightly often incorporated the words control and sanction in your answer. You are following the only right principle that we must apply throughout the policy of asylum and migration, in particular the strict but just principle. We note that the reimbursement of medical costs is increasing and we can therefore suspect that this means of rescue is being used lightly or excessively. Your bill will fix that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, I am obliged to suspend because of the lack of ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u25	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u26	Mr Calvo, I know what I have to do, and I will address those involved. If you're gonna ask for corporal punishment, you're gonna have to tell me. The meeting is adjourned. The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u27	The sitting has resumed. The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u28	Minister Van Overtveldt has arrived. It is not a pigeon house here, Mr Calvo, that is true. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u29	Mr President, this is not a holiday home where ministers come in whenever they feel like it. Soon you will ask the opposition whether it agrees to add a number of drafts to today's agenda. Soon we will have to vote in favour of a constitutional change. It's all possible. All this is done with your wholehearted agreement, Mr President, but if a minister is not present, you say that you will not introduce corporal punishment. Instead of passing through Parliament all the time, you should respond to the government. That's what you're paid for!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u30	Mr President, I note that ministers are indeed coming here as if they are already on holiday. In particular, I note with some amazement that you think that's normal. I think you can tell those ministers on behalf of Parliament that they are supposed to be here on Thursday for the questions. It would be a credit to you if you, as President, were to defend Parliament and not the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u31	Mr Vuye, Mr Calvo, of course everyone is profiling themselves in the way he seems most appropriate, but that being said, I must tell you that I would prefer to give a reprimand to the ministers concerned and not to the ministers who are not here. That is a mistake, but I will address Mr Reynder when he is here and not before.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u32	Mr President, on behalf of the Government, I apologize for this setback. The Deputy Prime Minister, Didier Reynders, had a diplomatic meeting this afternoon. He'll be with us in a few minutes. This is unusual because, systematically, one or more government ministers are present. Again, our apologies for this setback.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u33	Other ministers are not here, Mr. Borsus. You have to be there! Having said that, we continue with the questions addressed to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u34	Mr Calvo, you are being addressed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, I am going to the bathroom. [[Hilarity]] I know that N-VA is fascinated by everything Green does these days. If you'd like, you can come with me, but I'll be right back. Don't worry.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, let us remain serious. I call Mr Vanvelthoven.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u37	Mr President, Minister, I would like to begin by saying that the holiday is in sight. This is also apparent from the last few minutes. The holiday is in sight because of an annual return. There she is again, the demand, sometimes the demand, of CD&V for fair taxation. One can almost compare it to Loch Ness' monster. Everyone's talking about it, but it's not there. It's not there, otherwise CD&V wouldn't ask for it over and over again. Two years ago, we went through the same thing just before the recess. Something had to come, something was coming and something came. I have to admit, that was the speculative tax. The crazy thing was that nobody wanted it back then. The minister came up with it, but CD&V hadn't asked for it and N-VA shouldn't have it. But she was there and she had to be chased by Parliament and in the meantime she has been taken away. Last year it was again about the added value tax on shares, not an agreement. In fact, the State of the Union had to be postponed because the government had no agreement. Eventually, there was an agreement. The agreement that the Prime Minister came to this gallery at the time was that an agreement would be reached this parliamentary year. The parliamentary year ends today, and the agreement is not there again. What are we reading this year, two days before Parliament recesses? There is no longer any mention of the value added tax on shares, but suddenly there is talk of a tax on securities accounts. This is something new. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I suspect that you will be able to explain this further, but I still have two pressing questions. Firstly, does the fact that this government has a tax on the securities accounts mean that the value added tax on shares, the requirement of CD&V, is permanently buried? Secondly, is that tax on the securities accounts, after the statements of Minister De Croo and of Open Vld, now also permanently buried? I would like to ask you these two questions in order to know before the recess what can still be expected of this fair tax which is not available year after year.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u38	Mr. President, Minister, from what we have read in the press, the Prime Minister has made a proposal that concerns the corporate tax that you have been promoting for some years now and the taxation of securities accounts as set-off, which has long been demanded by the CD&V. The gains are reduced. For corporate tax, he spoke of a rate that would rise from 34 per cent to 25 per cent and even to 20 per cent for SMEs. On the taxation of securities accounts, there is a real novelty. This is the first time in Belgium that we have taxed not income but financial wealth. It would in itself be a revolution: taxing financial fortunes! We know that everything depends on the modalities and that the devil hides in the details. I'd like to have Mr. M.'s uncomplicated opinion. Van Overtveldt. We know you still have well-defined opinions. What is your technical and political opinion? Do you confirm that as far as corporate tax is concerned, as of 2018, it would be 20% for SMEs and 30% for other companies? What would this cost? With regard to the taxation of securities accounts, what securities would be covered? What accounts? From what amount? What rates would they apply? More specifically, I take the example of GBL – I give names to simplify – we have stockholders who hold the GBL shares via their securities accounts. They are therefore already paying a household discount and would therefore pay the new tax in addition. On the other hand, Albert Frère, GBL's main shareholder, does not pay the furniture discount. Would he pay that tax? Some fear a symbolic tax such as the speculation tax which was finally abolished. Does this risk exist? Finally, Minister, is this the right tax justice measure? Otherwise, what would be the right step if you considered tax justice necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u39	Of course, I do not have a problem with the call for more fiscal justice, but I do have the impression that this is the subject of a flaming policy. May I remind you of what the government has done in this area? The stock market fee has been extended. The banks contribute more through the reformed banking tax than ever before. For the first time in 25 years, the viewing load tackles the constructions in tax havens. The withholding tax was increased. Regularisations can only be at a higher rate and with full declaration. We were the first to start the exchange of rulings in the EU. The fight against tax fraud was intensified. I could still continue with that list. These are all measures that put the capital – including Mr. Van Hees has so much horror – more of a contribution. However, there are limits. Capital is necessary for investment in our economy. It is necessary to strengthen the well-being of all of us and is certainly essential to support our social security system. Perhaps you do not consider this interesting or necessary for you, but it is the reality. But everyone is in favour of fair burden-sharing and fair taxation, just as I hope we are in favour of world peace. Fair taxation calls for a broader debate, instead of focusing on the so-called rich. No longer than two days ago, a relatively unsuspecting source, Oxfam International, came out of a report that shows that Belgium is the world's largest leader in combating income inequality, including through taxation, after Sweden. It ranks second in the world. I therefore invite you to use this information to refine your rhetoric somewhat. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u40	Ah! So, Oxfam would be wrong? Make no mistake, the government's work isn't done yet. During the next few days there will be further work on it, including not just fiscal justice. For example, in the company tax reform, which is being further crystallised, we provide a lower rate for SMEs to stimulate this very dynamic sector of our economy, especially in terms of job creation. There will certainly be other measures on the table in the context of the debate on fiscal justice, which will be discussed in depth. But, with all due respect to Parliament, it would be very unwise of me to go into any of the proposals on this matter in greater depth today. This will be done in due course after the work on this in the government has been done.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u41	Minister, I agree with the latter. It would be inappropriate to publish in Parliament or in the press what has not yet been discussed in the government. But the tax on the securities account was leaked from your government anyway. Someone from your government leaked that measure to the press, didn't they? So don't tell us that we shouldn't ask questions about it because that's inappropriate. From your government it is announced that work is being done on it, that it is being considered. You say that you do not want to go into more detail about the measures, because everything is still possible. But at the same time, there's one you're getting out of. You stress that there will be a tax reduction for SMEs, which we can also agree to. So you are quite right to say that there must be one of these measures. I have also heard your argument about taxing capital. The conclusion is clear to me that your party does not like a tax on securities accounts, nor does it like an added value tax. As far as I am concerned, you have been clear about this. I see that Open Vld now nods in agreement. I believe that CD&V will look up the sun for the third summer in a row with nodding knees.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u42	Minister, I note that you are in favour of fair taxation. I think it's a scoop, coming from you! You say that we need fair taxation, but we must not focus on the rich. I therefore assume that for you, just taxation, tax justice, so much demanded by the CD&V, it is taxing those who are not rich! I am not sure that this is how the CD&V defended this principle. We'll see what comes out of the government's negotiations because you don't want to say any more. With regard to the discussion of this possible tax on securities accounts, there are a lot of people who fear that the middle class will be affected rather than the real rich. In this regard, I would like to quote the recent words of Michel Maus, who says that if you want real tax justice, a cadastre of fortunes is the only option. This is what the PTB stands for with its millionaire tax. If we really want to reach the real rich, the richest 1% of this society, we need a cadastre of fortunes and a tax on millionaires! You will then target precisely the richest and you will not touch the middle class. Minister, this is an option to consider in your government discussions. We wish you good luck! We hope that the third will be the right one! I'm afraid the CD&V has yet to wait a year or two or ten or twenty or fifty if we continue at this rate!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u43	Ministers, it is quite true that Parliament is very broad in terms of its agenda. We expect ministers to be available to Parliament every Thursday from 2.15 p.m. on. I have every respect for loaded agendas, but Parliament must be in the forefront of this and at that time, on Thursday afternoon at 2.15 p.m. It is a message for all of you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u44	Mr President, I would like to say how sorry I am to sometimes delay Parliament's work by joining you at around 15.00 hours. But I also wanted to tell you that it is at the request of Parliament that I have just met at length with my colleague the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Saudi Arabia. As many groups know, there was a lot to tell him. Of course, I regret to have done so, but I think it was not pointless to have a long meeting with the Saudi Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u45	It's been noted.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u46	Mr President, Minister, welcome, I hope your diplomatic dialogue has been fruitful, and in your reply you will be happy to discuss human rights in Saudi Arabia. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Belgian frigate Louise-Marie and our Belgian military have saved 290 lives in the Mediterranean and also arrested a number of smugglers. So those are people who didn't drown in the Mediterranean. That's the humanitarian core mission for our defense. I would like to thank them for that. I would like to congratulate them on that. And I think applause from this Chamber is more than justified. (Applause) These are people's lives that we have saved, Minister. If a member of your government proposes to stop this Louise-Marie mission, he will not only abandon the other European Member States, but will also make sure that there are fewer rescue operations in the Mediterranean Sea and more people are drowning. That is the brutal and cruel consequence of what Secretary of State Theo Francken said a few days ago. Our party is not in favour of open borders. But the frigate Louise-Marie is just guarding Europe's external borders and ensuring that people's lives are saved. Mr van de Vlaams Belang, you seem to find that laughable, which has been noted. Mr. Secretary, there are also war refugees among those boat refugees. There are also political refugees among those boat refugees. Everyone has the right to apply for asylum. But what needs to be done is to speed up asylum procedures so that it is clear who can stay and who cannot stay. Anyone who has no right to asylum in Europe must return. Mr Foreign Minister, I have a very clear question to ask you, and I would like a clear answer. At the end of this month, the mission ends with our frigate. What will happen in the coming months? Will our country continue to take the lead in a European operation that picks up smugglers, guards the external borders and saves people's lives? I would ask you to answer this question very clearly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u47	Mr President, Minister, in response to the shipwrecks of frail boats with hundreds of refugees fleeing war and misery in their country of origin, in spring 2015 Europe launched Operation EUNAVFOR Med to fight human trafficking and arms trafficking in the Mediterranean. This operation is planned in four phases. First, understanding the smuggling activities and methods of traffickers. Second, the seizure and diversion of vessels used on the high seas by smugglers. Thirdly, the taking of measures on the territory of coastal States against ships and boats suspected of being used for the smuggling of migrants and, finally, the withdrawal of forces. The European Union has always stressed that this objective is twofold, namely the dismantling of the economic model of networks of smugglers and traffickers in human beings, as well as the prevention of any further loss of life at sea. It is with the aim of highlighting this second objective that the High Representative of the European Union for Foreign Affairs, Federica Mogherini, renamed this operation Sophia, in memory of a little girl born on a German frigate forming part of the European operation. It was with dismay that we heard Mr. Francken declare, last Sunday, on a VTM plateau, that the mission of our frigate Louise-Marie, who has been involved since June 18 in this operation Sophia, had to be cancelled because it created an air call for migrants who, for the most part, were economic migrants, which you had to contradict, two days later, saying that the mission would be well carried on until July 27. Minister, do you confirm that frigate Louise-Marie will continue her mission until July 27th? On what basis did your colleague, Mr Franken, say that most migrants were economic migrants and not refugees? Is it possible, depending on the reason for departure, to decide whether to save or let a migrant die? What are the results of the third phase of Operation Sophia regarding measures taken against vessels suspected of being used for human trafficking? Do they have to close with positive results in order to have a withdrawal of forces? What measures will the government take at the end of this mission to manage the migration crisis from Libya? On 6 July, African and European ministers signed a joint declaration calling for support for monitoring in foreign countries, improved return policy and increased assistance to UNHCR and IOM to increase their presence throughout the migration route and to develop communication campaigns in countries of origin on the dangers of this route. This joint statement does not concern Belgium, but can you tell us if we are associated with it? Finally, will frigate Louise-Marie participate again in Operation Sophia next year and be able to sail in the territorial areas of Libya?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u48	Thank you, Mrs Caprasse, although your question was far too long.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u49	Minister, I assume you are a liberal. I suppose you find values of enlightenment such as freedom, solidarity, fraternity, respect for each other very important. As Foreign Minister, I suppose you are also awake to the image of Belgium as a liberal state where international law is respected and also the law of the sea. Mr Minister, in recent days the government has shown a serious spread, a embarrassing spread. I think you should be awake from that. The Secretary of State says that the people of civil society, Doctors Without Borders, saving people on the Mediterranean Sea, are creating a suction effect. Meanwhile, it has been scientifically proven that this is not the case. I would remind you that six or seven years ago, together with Italy, Europe stopped trying to do so. The result was: more refugees and more deaths. That says enough. Meanwhile, the Liberal Minister, Mr De Croo, says that he finds these statements unacceptable. CD&V doesn't even want to react formally anymore. I can see that eminent people like Mark Eyskens make statements about this on Facebook. Gentlemen, you must know your history. Minister, what is the government's position on Operation Sophia? Apparently, it's always women doing the work on the Mediterranean. How do we look at the military operations and the people who are making efforts to do so? Do you follow the line Francken or do you follow the line De Croo?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u50	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you have already seen from the number of speakers and their speeches that the participation of the frigate in the Sophia operation has caused some fuss. However, I have to say that it is happening again today that Secretary of State Francken's words are being put in his mouth or ideas are being printed in his head that have absolutely not been shown by what has been said... (Rumur)... and that show a far-reaching malice. In fact, I have to say that sometimes I thought it was degout. The Secretary of State never said that the frigate should return immediately before the end of the mission on 28 July. He never said that people in need should not be saved, because that is not up for discussion. He questioned the effectiveness of Operation Sophia within the current mandate. I hope that this can be done today without having to take back some scumbag reactions. Secretary of State Francken is not the only one questioning the lack of effectiveness of the Sophia operation. We need to dissuade the operation, Sophia. However, the figures speak volumes: they seem to be rising sharply, there is clearly no danger of a derailment effect. Italy is against the wall with its back. Ask France and Spain to provide some help in this area and they do not give at home. They are not ready to give the assistance they are asking for. I hope that everyone has come to realize that economic migrants are taking advantage of the situation. Lap agents such as an export ban on rubber boats will not cause any harm. That seems obvious to me. We're gonna have to come out stronger than that. I am therefore very pleased that the question of the effectiveness of the operation is being asked without, by definition, questioning the humanity of people. Mr Vice Prime Minister, what is your opinion on the mandate of Operation Sophia and its limitations at the moment? Can it indeed be done effectively today what we really hope for? What could also be the question posed by the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, the effective participation of our country in order to limit the smuggling and control of Libya's route in 2018 in a better way, without abandoning humanitarian principles?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u51	Thank you, Mr De Roover, even though the question was too long.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u52	Mr Vice Prime Minister, my question is actually very simple. How many federal governments are there in Belgium? I see two, I see the Michael and Francken Governments. Take the participation in Sophia now. What's on the DOD's website? It says quite literally that it is European resources that are being used to save people's lives. The Michel administration is voluntarily involved in this and the Francken administration says it is madness because there is probably a suction effect. On that point, the Francken administration is probably right. However, while Francken is tweeting that message, his party mate Steven Vandeput sends the Navy to the Mediterranean Sea. Same with Unia. Unia is richly sponsored with eight million euros per year, three million from the federal government, 3.3 million via the National Lottery................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. What does the Francken administration say? Who's Unia? Indeed, who is Unia? Well, Unia is an interfederal public institution which falls within the competence of Mrs Demir and Mrs Homans and which costs us EUR 8 million a year. So Francken is tweeting and the Michel administration is sponsoring. Hence my question: what is the government's position? Is it that of the Michel government or that of the Francken government? More precisely, do there actually exist plans within the government for the dismantling of Unia?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u53	Mr Vice Prime Minister, the European Union with its free movement of persons has no internal borders, it only has external borders. In 2015, with the migration crisis, we all experienced this and realised it better than ever. Refugees and migrants flowed from Turkey and Greece throughout Europe. We then fulfilled our international obligations as a country. We have also given shelter to those people who were fleeing war and who, according to the Geneva Convention, were able to receive shelter in our country. The EU also learned lessons from this in 2015, ladies and gentlemen. Just because we no longer have internal borders, we need to enforce and strengthen those external borders. We do this together with the 27 Member States of the European Union. That is why we have strengthened Frontex and hence the military mission Sophia was launched to combat the trafficking of human beings in the Mediterranean. Almost everyone evaluates that mission as useful, as necessary and as successful. Our Minister for Defence also said in committee that this mission was very successful. Secretary of State Francken, however. He calls that mission madness and he reduces our military ships as if they were ferryboats for lucky seekers coming to Europe. He also talks about a suction effect. However, the suction effect is not proven, university studies prove that there is absolutely no relationship between the Sophia operation and a suction effect. Colleagues, the way in which Secretary of State Francken communicates on such a sensitive subject is not that of our liberal party. [[Applause]] Minister, you met with your colleagues this week on the continuation of Operation Sophia. How do you and your colleagues evaluate that mission so far? What initiatives are being taken in order to be able to operate in Libyan waters in the future? Where are we with the negotiations with Tunisia and Egypt to take back migrants without a sight of refugee status? In short, isn't it better to strengthen and improve the Sophia operation, rather than simply abolish them, shortsightedly?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u54	Mr President, I believe that the government and the Chamber are supporting the Sophia operation. Obviously, I mean that. [[Applause]] The Council of Ministers of 9 June 2017 approved the participation of the frigate Louise-Marie in the Sophia EUNAVFOR Med operation from 12 June to 28 July 2017. The first operation took place in 2016. The decision fell in 2015. The purpose of this operation is to disrupt the modus operandi of smugglers and traffickers in the Mediterranean. For the moment, we are waiting for a decision by the Council, at European level, to extend Operation Sophia until 31 December 2018, which is expected to fall in the coming days. I confirm that the mission of the Belgian frigate Louise-Marie will be completed and there is no doubt about it. I confirmed it in the Foreign Affairs Council last Monday. At the same time, several speakers were heard: first of all our Italian colleagues who draw attention to their current inability to receive such an influx of migrants on their territory, whether they are refugees or not. So far, they have not allowed the extension of Operation Sophia and I hope that it will not be long. We then heard from the officials of the International Organization of Migration and the Office of the High Commissioner for Refugees, who reported an influx of arrivals to Italy, but also an increasing number of deaths in the southern Mediterranean. The Balkan road is blocked, the one between Turkey and Greece is also stopped without any more deaths in the Mediterranean since the agreements between the European Union and Turkey, but unfortunately there is a significant increase in the number of deaths by the South road. We support Operation Sophia, but I also told my fellow Members in the Council of Ministers at European level that we are calling for a change of policy, with an adjustment of the possibilities for military operation Sofia. Already in 2015 we decided to work in stages. We call for a move towards phase 2b, the extension of the operational zone to the territorial waters of Libya, and phase 3 actions in the coastal areas of the Libyan territory in order to be more efficient. We will work in this direction with our allies in Operation Sofie and at European level. Rescue operations are very useful, but it is even better that there are no deaths in the Mediterranean. So we are prepared to continue Operation Sophia after that change, with action also in the territorial waters, but also on the Libyan coast. We will therefore continue to argue in this direction. But I repeat that there is no doubt about the Belgian Government's willingness to participate in these operations. Besides, there would be only one person to save in the Mediterranean that we would be there.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u55	Mr President, Minister Reynders was very clear: stop discrediting our country's humanitarian operation, Theo Francken. Ladies and gentlemen, we are at the beginning of Parliament's summer recess. What bothers me in this whole debate is the aggressive, inflammatory language that we hear time and time again. Also in our emailboxes xenophobic Flanders shows itself on its worst side. I'm getting emails from people who talk about refugees in terms of happiness seekers, like they're parasites. I get emails from people who say it looks like our country is being flooded when they hear the politicians busy. In reality, in two years' time, we have recognised a number of refugees corresponding to 0.25 percent of our population. So it is complete nonsense to claim that Belgium is being flooded. I would like to give a compliment to Herman Van Rompuy and Mark Eyskens of CD&V, who protest against such statements. At the same time, colleagues from CD&V, it usually stays very quiet after such protests. CD&V sometimes reminds me of dogs barking while the caravan just passes by. I keep hearing you protesting and drawing a red line when it comes to files like ARCO. I am sure you have good reasons for doing so. However, I would ask you to draw a red line in the refugee debate as well. This is an appeal to Parliament. Let us use the summer vacation to reflect and, beyond the party boundaries, start in September with a clean slate so that we do not have to hear a certain kind of language here anymore. It doesn't make our society any better. Our society, Flanders, is only more aggressive and polarized. And we can spare that as the plague.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u56	Minister, thank you for your comforting and reassuring remarks. I am really very happy to know that Sophia remains an operation to rescue migrants, whatever they may be, whatever their origins or the reasons for their catastrophic journey. You responded to Mr. Franken's comments. It's very good, but it's messy. I think this is detrimental to the image of your government – which is not really my problem – but also to the image of our country. Some members of the government seem to be already in the election campaign. The elections are no longer far away. However, it is their duty to carry out their missions with dignity and seriousness and to respect European commitments, in this case with regard to migration policy. They have duties to perform.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u57	Minister, yesterday we discussed a resolution on religious minorities. To be clear, that also requires tolerance for me, because I am not religious, but I would like to think empathically about it. I saw a very empathetic reaction to that resolution here by fellow Members of this House. Well, those boats could have people belonging to religious minorities. I therefore ask that in future we should not judge with two values and not be hypocritical. People are people, and we have to respect them. I also hope, Minister, that you will find sufficient support within the international community and Europe to find fundamental solutions in such a way that people no longer have to take boats to go to other countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u58	Mr Minister, apart from our attachment, I have also said this to the principle that, of course, people in need should be helped, I am particularly pleased that you are aware that Sophia's current mandate is too small and that no work can be done within that mandate as we can expect. You are announcing stages 2b and 3 and we are very pleased with that, because that is, of course, the essence of the debate: how do we deal with the problem in the most efficient way? Solutions are not obvious. That goes without saying. However, without careful control of external borders, the principle of open internal borders will inevitably no longer be maintained. This means that the protection and control of the external borders is actually also about the essence of European cooperation. I am sorry, honourable Members of some groups, but with your moral touch we will not stop the holes in our external borders. Your finger is way too small for that. As far as the style of communication is concerned, this can be disputed. Everyone has their own way of doing things, but looking away from facts, is certainly not in our party's arsenal, which is why I am particularly pleased that we do not impose self-censorship in this debate and say that certain things cannot be said, because they go against a certain left-wing dogma. Well, let the debate be free, in such a way that, if there are problems, we can also provide solutions in an open way.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u59	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, I would have liked to thank you for your answer, but unfortunately I cannot, because I have not received an answer. So I will give the answer myself. Why is there a Francken government and a Michel government? Because the Michel government had to be a socio-economic recovery government and that it didn't succeed. There is no budgetary balance, there is less job creation than the European average, like the Di Rupo government, there is an increase in taxes, withholding tax on 30%, stock exchange tax, fuel cards, and now there is even going to be a toll on securities accounts. Since the Michel government is not achieving any results, there is the Francken government, the government reads my tweets, listen to my interviews, do not look at the actions of the Michael Government. That is why there are two governments. Well, I think Flanders expects a little more than a certain indignation on twitter and in television studios. Flanders expects more and deserves more.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u60	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your clear answer. Belgium supports the Sophia operation. In the absence of internal borders, we must strengthen our European external borders, no matter what we do. This is a task for all the Member States, for Frontex and also for our Belgian frigates in the Mediterranean. This is the only way to stop the smugglers. I am glad to hear that you will take the following policy steps. This will focus on the Libyan mainland and take action in Libyan territorial waters. I am also convinced that we will have to look at Egypt and Tunisia in order to receive refugees who are not eligible for protection here. It is indeed too easy to look away, Mr De Roover. We do not do that and neither do the government. But taking away our frigate and putting all the burden on other countries, such as Italy, Greece and Spain, would have been looking away. We're not in favour of ostrich politics. We want the ship to stay there and support Operation Sophia now and in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u61	Mr President, Mr De Vriendt, in his reply just now, felt that he should address our group. I consider that to be a personal fact, and I would like to replicate it very briefly. If one asks a question to the government, then one can also replicate. If one wishes to serve a fraction of a reply, that can be done, but then we also have the right to replicate. Firstly, let me make it clear, Mr De Vriendt, that we fully endorse the words of ministers of State Mark Eyskens and Herman Van Rompuy. Secondly, one can speak, a member of the government can speak, but the verdict is regrettable. What matters more to us is what the government does. That is what the Foreign Minister did on behalf of the government on Monday and the position he took. That is also the view he has expressed here today in the Chamber. The operation will not be stopped and we are in favour of strengthening it. Every human life counts.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u62	Mr. Minister, we recall the significant and binding progress made by the French-speaking entities of this country, as part of the CETA negotiations. Our social and environmental norms, our economy and our rule of law were at stake. Already in mid-May, my group asked this rostrum for federal loyalty in the implementation of the CETA intra-Belgian signing agreement. As you know, Mr Minister, in this agreement is indeed the fact that Belgium will refer the matter to the Court of Justice of the European Union concerning the compatibility of the ICS mechanism, the settlement of disputes, with the European Treaties. In short, the question was this: is this type of trade treaty compatible with our rule of law and democracy? Today is July 20th. As the Prime Minister promised us here in plenary that the agreement would be implemented as soon as possible, probably around the summer, there was no progress. But we are still told that the text is ready. In fact, at a technical meeting yesterday, it was confirmed that the legal services of your SPF gave their green light to the text in question, and that the political mandate of the concertation committee was respected. So, Minister, what are you waiting for? My question will therefore be very simple, Minister. When will Belgium ask the Court for an opinion on CETA? To put it another way, what new excuse will this government use to postpone this agreement when, as we said yesterday, the text is finally ready?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u63	Mr Crusnière, as you pointed out, an agreement has been reached in the conciliation committee to submit a request for an opinion. So it will be done. You also indicated that the Prime Minister had announced that this request would be made later this summer - and that will be the case. I recall that I signed the CETA as it had been negotiated. It will enter into force provisionally as from September. The federal government has shown its loyalty to all the federated entities. We have prepared a request for an opinion. To that end, a working group was set up under the chairmanship of my cabinet last December. Again this week, regardless of the difficulties in some federated entities, we held two meetings on this text. In my view, the text is now stabilized. It has about 60 pages and will be submitted to the next consultation committee to be held in early September. I hope that on this occasion we will receive confirmation from all the federated entities that we need to move forward. We will then submit the request for an opinion to the Court of Justice. The Prime Minister had announced this request for the summer, but it seems to me that it will be late in the summer. I hope that we will then be able to convene without any problems a committee of consultation with governments, both at the federal level and in the federated entities, in full possession of their means.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u64	Minister, thank you for your answer. Actually, you're drowning the fish!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u65	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u66	Mr. Flahaux, let me talk. You know very well that the mandate of the consultation committee was clear. You know just as well – since technical meetings were held yesterday – that the text that is ready does indeed correspond to the mandate given by the concertation committee. In short, there is nothing to prevent you from filing this request today. We know that this issue is a source of uneasiness within certain levels of power, where negotiations are taking place at this time. I'm worried about that. Indeed, the CDH is not a close renunciation, since this little party has no word! (Protests on cdH benches) That's the reality! Then, Minister, take your responsibility by tabling this text today, in accordance with the mandate issued by the concertation committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u67	Mr. President, Mr. Minister of Justice, let's talk about the prison population. Finally, in Belgium, we should rather talk about prison overcrowding, since the latest figures are surprisingly rising, whereas the situation had been more or less stabilized last year. Today, the "filling rate" of our prisons is exceeded by 1,500 people. There must certainly be an explanation for that. This is not innocent as each day of imprisonment still represents 150 euros per prisoner charged with the budget of the SPF Justice. Mr Minister, this is regularly discussed in the Committee on Justice and I know that you like to look at what is happening elsewhere, particularly in the Netherlands. In the Netherlands, however, newspapers claim that there is a way to use the prisons that are being released, as the Netherlands now has only 9,000 prisoners, a reduction of half in ten years. How are the policies implemented in the Netherlands and Belgium different? Have our colleagues in the Netherlands succeeded in putting in place this real policy alternative to prison, which you yourself regularly call your wishes? Minister, you are one of the warmest supporters. You keep telling us that prison is the ultimate sanction that only comes after all the others have failed. Despite the various texts that you submit to us, despite the various pots or perhaps because of them, it is clear that we do not make much progress, that we regularly increase sentences and that conditions of parole are tightened. We are not doing anything about pre-trial detention, which is one of the major factors of overcrowding in our prisons. Minister, when are we finally going to have a plan worthy of this name, other than the proposals of the "alternate accommodation" style (a week of release followed by a week of imprisonment)? When will we have a real plan not to fight overpopulation, but to combat confinement by genuinely alternative measures?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u68	Mr President, Mr Brotcorne, it cannot be denied that, in recent times, the government and your Parliament have taken action on alternative penalties, autonomous probation, independent electronic surveillance, work as a penalty. With regard to the repatriation of detainees, we have done better than ever, on the one hand, by concluding agreements with certain third countries for the execution of the sentence in the country of origin and, on the other hand, by repatriating people without a residence permit at the end of their sentence, faster and more effectively. At present, the overcrowding in prisons is 14 per cent, with 10,461 prisoners. We haven't been down below 10,300 inmates lately, but we've been up to 12,000 inmates. I find that this figure is not so bad, since Forest, for half, and Merksplas, for a third, had to be closed for reasons of safety and safety. I therefore find that the government is not doing so badly, with 14% overpopulation. I have taken three steps, one of which was approved this morning again in the Council of Ministers, namely the fact that those who are lacking in a criminal conviction will have their threshold increased from one to three years. I have also announced two measures by circular: eligibility for provisional release of persons sentenced to short sentences and the extension of prison leave facilities for certain categories of prisoners. This world isn't perfect. You know that I am one of those who do not really approve of 38 per cent of our inmates being in custody, and that electronic surveillance is too little used in some jurisdictions. I'm doing my best to improve the situation. But it's true that I still have a lot to do. Mr Brotcorne, together, let us do everything possible!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u69	Mr Minister, I thought I'd call you a bit, make you jealous of what your colleague in the Netherlands is capable of doing. You answer me with numbers, but we know those numbers. What I ask of you is: what are you doing in practice? What are you doing with the government in concrete terms to achieve what you are announcing in your Justice Plan so that this prison population will be reduced and real alternative sentences put in place? That's what we don't see happening. We see exactly the opposite: increased incarceration periods, increased sentences, tougher conditions of parole. We really are not in line with what this great neighbouring country is doing, to which Flanders often compares itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u70	Mr President, Minister, I am pleased to note that, almost two years after the attempted terrorist attack on Thalys travellers, the Belgian authorities' commitments to install security gates in the country's three international stations (Brussels-Midi, Antwerp and Liège) have been respected. In addition to this device, new cameras have been installed with facial recognition software for some of them. The total cost is around EUR 15 million, in addition to the budget allocated for staff and maintenance. Minister, on what basis are these controls carried out? Is there a memorandum of understanding between the various authorities and the various security actors? Can you give us more details about this? Can you also provide us with details of the exact number of travellers and baggage that have already been checked?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u71	Mr President, my colleague, as you know, among the measures taken after the attacks were the international stations and controls section. The choice was made to carry out random checks. In other words, in the Midi station, in the train station of Antwerp and Liège, you pass in a corridor and you are drawn by lot on a totally random basis to be subjected to a x-ray metal control and explosive detection. A certain percentage of passengers embarking on trains are thus checked. The Memorandum of Understanding between Securail, the Railway Police and the Federal Police was signed on 13 July, as soon as the equipment was installed. The first checks were carried out at the Midi station on 14 July, 17 and 18 July at the Antwerp and Liège stations. To date, more than 3,500 people and luggage have been checked. About 10 facts have merited a thorough examination and intervention by the police forces. We therefore respect our international commitments with regard to controls on international trains only. Of course, people with unusual and unusual behaviour are also identified in these stations. These persons are also likely to undergo these checks. It is therefore no longer a question of random control, but of a control carried out as a result of behaviour detected either by the cameras or by the agents present on the spot, including the military.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u72	Minister, thank you for your answers. I congratulate you, and your colleague from the Interior, on the effective work you have done with the SNCB teams to organise these checks. These technical means are very important and I would like to congratulate the government for taking the step of predictive profiling, a technique that allows to marry technical and human means to detect suspicious behaviors. Minister, you have also managed to find this delicate balance between the security imperatives and the fluidity necessary to allow the freedom of movement of travellers. Of course, this random control system will have to be evaluated over time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u73	Mr President, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, last week news came out that the passwords and data of more than 550 000 patients were being hacked. For the sake of clarity, this was not a hacking of the so-called patient file, but a hacking of a private company offering an online platform, so that patients and home doctors can make appointments online. Such hackings are not new. It wasn't the first and it won't be the last. There will be countless more attempts. However, the hacking I am talking about today was problematic for various reasons. First of all, the private company hadn't encrypted the passwords. Encryption makes the hacker unreadable. In concrete terms, hacking also means that other data from the patients concerned, for example on websites or Facebook accounts, can be accessed. Secondly, the company did not bother to inform the customers of that hacking either. The company simply kept that secret, which is extremely irresponsible. An apology warning e-mail was the least I could do. In doing so, the company could also have provided tips to the persons concerned, for example to change their password. Mr Secretary of State, how do you respond to the problem? Is the privacy committee currently bowing to that? Finally, does the reform of the privacy committee provide for a reporting obligation for both companies and governments as well as for such facts to arise in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u74	Mrs Gabriels, the hacking at the Digital Waiting Room last week actually makes it clear that all organisations should be working on data protection, privacy and cybersecurity. A hacker indeed stole a number of passwords, email addresses and data about the reasons why patients planned a doctor's appointment last week. Just so we're clear, there was no break-in into social security records in the government, because that data is very strictly secured. I want to make it clear that this is hacking in a private company and not public data. We must, of course, take any data theft seriously. Today, the Federal Computer Crime Unit launched an investigation into the circumstances and scope of hacking. A complaint was filed with the privacy committee and an investigation has been launched into the security of that platform. The police will investigate the facts as such. The privacy committee has already made recommendations in the past, so that companies and organisations would inform their customers in a good way when they face hacking. In this case, this would mean that the customer will change his password best, not only for the affected application but also for other applications where that password is used. In the future, we will do so differently and much better. This morning, on my proposal, the government approved the creation of a new data protection authority. The draft on this subject will be submitted to Parliament in September. The new data protection authority will have extensive investigative powers and will also be able to carry out preventive audits and screenings. This will ensure that the highest standards of data protection are followed everywhere. As a stick behind the door, the new data authority will also be given a sanctioning power and companies and organisations can be forced to follow the privacy laws. The new European privacy legislation that is coming is, of course, essential. It will oblige companies to report to the authorities within 72 hours and to properly inform affected citizens. We decided this morning to create a central data leak hotline so that companies know where they can go. Later, all authorities will be able to work together to protect data. It is important that all organisations, private and public, prepare for the new European regulation. Together with the privacy committee and the new data authority, we will take all necessary measures and we will help companies and organisations to implement the new European legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u75	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for the comprehensive and clear answer. It is good that the government will take additional measures. As you said yourself, we really need to improve the security of online data. It is imperative that in this digital age the data that people do not want to share be protected. Offering online services is booming business, but we can expect private companies to deal with it very professionally in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u76	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u77	Mr President, yesterday we found that a group chairman, Mr Calvo, could not agree to the discussion of draft law No. 2488 on the agenda. After Mr Van Rompuy's speech, I did not get the impression that Mr Calvo was very convinced of the reasons why he did not want to put that item on the agenda. This has not been demonstrated in his speech. In the meantime, we're a day away. For the sake of clarity, I can say that we are not making a point of conflict here, but I would like to ask whether there is still no consensus on putting this item on the agenda? If not, Mr Calvo will certainly explain why that is not the case. I would like to remind you that the draft law in question was placed on the agenda of the plenary because the Minister allowed the Finance Committee not to meet for a week because of work on the Panama Commission. So there was a week's break, with the agreement of everyone. The draft law was submitted on 13 June and could normally have taken the normal course. My question is whether there is, in the meantime, a progressive understanding of the colleague?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u78	Mr President, it is true that, on the basis of a number of criteria, the Conference of Presidents has drawn up certain drafts and proposals and referred them to yesterday, today and September. The discussion of the draft ended in September in this way. Mr President, if Mr De Roover or you had called me this morning, I would have informed you that it was no problem for me to discuss this today. Mr President, Mr De Roover, I will give you my name card and telephone number in a moment, so that you can approach this in a more proactive way in the future, such as a President of the Chamber or a chairman of a political group would normally do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u79	Mr President, Mr Calvo, I did not text you, but I did send you an e-mail to thank you and say that there was indeed a misunderstanding with regard to these drafts. They were discussed in committee at second reading. All data is respected. I think I have also talked to Mr Laaouej about it. This was properly discussed in committee. Thank you for being prepared to deal with that in plenary this afternoon.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u80	I should like to apologize for not following the usual subtlety shown by Mr Calvo. However, I just wanted to establish whether there was any resistance or not. If there is not, we can simply do what is best in those circumstances.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u81	Ladies and gentlemen, I note that there is consensus on this bill No. 2488 to be added to the agenda. Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u82	Mr President, I would like to ask you for compensation. We found problems in the bill amending the Code of Registration, Mortgage and Registry Fees with a view to reforming registry fees (No. 2569). This government has made several proposals which posed a major problem for access to justice, not only for the poorest, but also for the middle classes. We have also identified legal problems in this bill. Mr President, I would therefore ask you to seek the opinion of the Council of State on the amendment we have tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u83	Mr President, our group also supports the request for the opinion of the Council of State. With this draft law, there is an unacceptable increase in the threshold for access to justice. Again. The government even admits that, because it states in its text that it has a negative impact on equal opportunities and on poverty reduction. The Council of State had also noted that access to justice is restricted, especially for persons whose income is just above the threshold in order to benefit from the free provision of legal aid. That income threshold isn't even that high. That is why we are happy to endorse the amendment tabled by the colleagues from the PS, in order to grant an exemption to the group of people who are just above the income threshold. With the amendment, therefore, we are also asking very kindly for the opinion of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u84	Mr President, I agree with the request to submit to the Council of State the amendment which had already been tabled in committee but which had not been accepted. This request is driven by the widespread underfunding of justice in the federal budget, which we complain about throughout the year. You are asking us to support the intervention of the litigant in the funding of the federal budget without it being used for justice. In my view, this is not consistent. Interpelling the Council of State is a way of not hastening the adoption of this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u85	Mr President, we agree with the question. The committee has clearly shown that the present proposal will further raise the threshold to go to justice, after the introduction of VAT on the fees of lawyers and bailiffs, after the increase in registry fees, judicial fees and so on. They're going to be very high thresholds. The only reason why the government is introducing this is quite clearly a budgetary reason. They just want to find an extra EUR 20 million somewhere in a department, and they just introduce a tax on justice. That is why we support the request for advice from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u86	Mr President, I note that this government both reduces the right to strike and increases registry fees. It is a form of taxatory rabies that applies to public services essential for a justiciable, a citizen who, without having chosen him, is often confronted with justice. Obstacles already exist. There are many obstacles to gaining access to justice. Here, by increasing registry fees, these barriers are further increased. I do think that having the lighting of the Council of State would be a good idea. We therefore support this initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u87	Ladies and gentlemen, I see that there are more than 50 members who support the request for an opinion from the Council of State. I propose then to seek the opinion of the Council of State on Amendment No. 6 to Bill No. 2569/7. The discussion of this project thus ends here.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u88	By letter dated 19 July 2017, the Ecolo Green Group of the European Parliament informed me that Mr Jean-Marc Nollet had been appointed as group chairman from 1 September 2017. By letter of 19 July 2017, the Ecolo-Groen Group of the House informed me of the appointment of Mr Jean-Marc Nollet as group chairman from 1 September 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u89	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Mrs Lanjri and Mrs Gabriels.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u90	Mr President, allow us to refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u91	First of all, Mr Secretary of State, I would like to thank you for continuing on this path and making the necessary changes to prevent abuse of procedure. To this end, the government has adapted the legal arsenal several times. What we are voting on today is an amendment to the right of the judge in foreign affairs to take action against abuse of the procedure. This possibility has been in place since 2010, but has only been applied twenty times in practice. The question as to why the possibility was invoked only twenty times was that the procedure was not simple enough and delayed and complicated the whole system. With this amendment, we are simplifying the procedure for invoking abuse of law and making them more efficient. That will also encourage the use of it by counsellors. From now on, it will be possible to issue a judgment in appeal and a judgment in which the applicant is convicted for manifestly unlawful action, which is very important because it will save time. This is clearly a simplification, which is clearly more efficient. I would like to stress here, as in the committee after criticism by the opposition, that these are manifestly unlawful appeals. There's always a judge's review. The procedure will not be relied upon lightly. Mr Secretary of State, years ago we wrote together the book Land without border. We have already identified the abuses and denounced the entire migration industry, of which this is a very good example. Such practices cost money and do no one a service, first and foremost not the foreigner in question. It costs the stranger and society a lot of money, because very often it is about pro-Deo procedures. Today's legislative amendment also introduces the possibility of sanctioning the lawyers responsible for bringing proceedings if it is effectively proven that they are abusing the procedure to buy time to prolong their stay in the country. By laying down the responsibility of the lawyers and responsive them to deal with certain procedures in an economical manner and clearly considering whether it is in the interests of society and at all in the interest of the client himself to initiate the procedure, the lawyer is given the opportunity to act self-regulatoryly. At present, the only sanction that can be imposed is a fine on the foreigner himself. It goes without saying that this fine is often not collected, because the stranger is unable to pay the fine, or because he is no longer to be found, because he has already left on his own initiative or expelled. So the sanction was actually very often an empty box. With the introduction of the possibility of imposing sanctions on lawyers who abuse procedures, the actual person responsible for the abuse of proceedings can finally be sanctioned. There may even be disciplinary proceedings against the lawyer in question. Colleagues, in other branches of law, civil law and criminal law, there are legal thresholds. Terrible and reckless proceedings are sanctioned in all branches of law. There is even compulsory mediation in many areas of law before going to court. This is the case in juvenile law; there are thresholds for the peace court; there are thresholds for the court of first instance. Everywhere the lawyer is responded to and access to justice is made difficult. We must proceed in a sensible manner, that goes without saying. Justice costs a lot of money. We live happily in a rule of law. That may cost money, but it must be dealt with in a very economical way. All branches of law provide for the handling of gruesome and reckless actions. Everyone supports the approach to abuse of procedure in order to ensure an efficient justice system. However, when it comes to foreign law, we hear very often from the left and from the opposition that we want to proceed stigmatizingly. That is actually very difficult to understand. This is not in line with the line maintained by all branches of justice. To conclude, the N-VA Group is firmly committed to the principle that everyone, including a foreigner, has the right to a proper defence and to be able to assert their rights in our society. That is one of the basic principles of our rule of law. Of course, we are absolutely in favour of this, but that does not mean that we should not do anything about the abuse of procedure and that nothing should be done in the fight against manifestly unlawful appeals. With this draft law, Mr Secretary of State, you will do so, tackle that problem and fight it. It goes without saying that you have the support of our group in voting on the draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u92	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after two readings on a bill that has only three clauses, we are here in plenary to consider this bill on abuse. Some would say that this is an opportunity for a thorough reading. To these, I reply that a bill to deal with a situation that concerns 19 files a year is just as randomly using its time. And that's probably more. It is a continuation of action which, for us, has been negative since the beginning of this Parliament. The Minister has continuously amended the 1980 Act to restrict the rights of foreigners and asylum seekers. It's the same every time! Migrants are described as criminals or refugees as liars. I will not go back to the debates conducted via topical questions about your statements about those who ask to be saved in the Mediterranean. Today, the minister attacks lawyers who advocate the law of foreigners. You present them as lawyers who abuse proceedings before the Foreign Litigation Board. It must be said that Mr. Franken is in a state of nerve! He claims that lawyers abuse appeal procedures when he is unable to demonstrate them. It's still pretty serious! Colleagues, you have to vote for an amendment to the law, but there is no justification for it. There is no proven abuse or increase in complaints. And when the bar associations of lawyers - French-speaking and Dutch-speaking - put you to the test by asking you to produce writings, complaints about these abuses in respect of appeal procedures before the Conseil du Litigieux des Étrangers, they get no answer. Nothing! Not a complaint was forwarded by Mr Franken or the services! What more can I say? It's all said! We are facing a proposal to amend the law that is not based on anything. There is another element that attracts our attention: you may be taxed for abusing procedures yourself. This is apparent when you see the way you proceed, the amount of procedural manoeuvres you have used to avoid the need to issue humanitarian visas. It is also so when we think that we have had to go, at the end of the day, to the last resort, namely the European Court of Justice, in order to win the case. It's hot when you see the reality of the numbers. In terms of complaints, there are a total of 19 cases. The project in question shows a rather negative picture of lawyers. It feels like they don't know their job. Reference is made to what has been said to us by the bar associations - Flemish, French-speaking and German-speaking - about the number of trainings taken by lawyers in the field of foreign law. Between these training requirements, at least one third of the mandatory hours, and the ridiculous number of sanctions, we see the reality. From this point of view, it must also be pointed out that the draft, in its original version, provided that the outcome of the hearing was already played in advance, since the question of the unfairness of the appeal had to be argued at the same sitting as the merits of the case. We are still far from an ideal situation, but at the very least the amended version of the text goes less far in this area. This is to be welcomed, but we are forced to agree that if the opposition had not fought to get hearings, this would not even have been raised. It says a lot about the working method. Finally, I will focus on one last point. It's also a point of disagreement with you. The administration, for its part, never initiates an abusive procedure, since only the author of an appeal is liable to be punished. The cassation of the decision would be the only sanction for an act of the administration that would be manifestly abusive. It can therefore be seen that the draft also envisages breaking the so-called equality of arms before the Foreign Litigation Council. For all these reasons, my group will not support this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u93	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law before us is part of the implementation of the coalition agreement. We shall therefore support this. It is a question of preventing unlawful actions. Just so we're clear, this isn't a new case. There is already a procedure for combating manifestly unlawful actions, but that procedure is complex, time-consuming and requires a separate meeting each time. The proposed amendment allows the courts of the Council of Foreign Ministers to decide, at the hearing, whether or not an appeal is manifestly unlawful. That is a good thing, because it will speed up the clarity of those involved. In addition, this will reduce the workload of the RV so that more time can be spent on other procedures so that they can be completed more quickly. Our group has always been in favour of speedy but also quality procedures that provide legal certainty for those involved. For the sake of clarity, this draft law does not mean that people will not be allowed to appeal in future. It is one of the existing legal remedies and this is maintained. We are talking about manifest abuses that need to be addressed. Again, appealing is and remains the right of everyone. After hearing the Order of Lawyers, both the Flemish and French-speaking desks, we made an additional clarification in the draft law. [[The sound of a mobile phone resounds]] By means of an amendment, we have clarified that, if necessary and in order to effectively safeguard the rights of defence, the judge may decide to postpone and allow a new hearing to take place so that the lawyer in question can properly prepare himself. If there is no need for a new session, everything can be more efficient and faster. We shall vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u94	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, for the record, sp.a is not against action against procedural abuse. Mr Secretary of State, I could not therefore appreciate the fact that you immediately tweeted that sp.a, alongside a number of other parties, is for procedural abuse. I believe that we in the committee were correct in this regard. We have a problem with this law because we do not think it is the right instrument to achieve the objective that you, like us, set out to combat, namely, procedural abuse. I would like to thank you for having de facto entered our amendment in order to allow for a second sitting so that the lawyer concerned can defend himself before the Council of Foreign Ministers with arguments before he is accused of abusing proceedings. Mrs Lanjri referred to this earlier. As has been said several times, in six years there have been about 20 files. You can of course say that there are so few files because it is so complicated that it could be. During the hearing we understood that the Order of Lawyers is prepared to enter into dialogue with a view to remedying this. In addition, the Minister of Justice is working on a number of legislative initiatives to establish a structural dialogue for adjustment and adjustment. In the hearings we heard from the lawyers that there is a very strict quality control and then mainly in foreign law, because these are written procedures. The new point system also ensures that we see a change of behavior with lawyers. As I said in committee, as ex-OCMW chairman, I have some experience of procedural abuse in the area of regularisation and living wages. Well, if you start a proper dialogue with the lawyers, you can, if necessary, bring about a change in behaviour. Is this law necessary? Will it produce results in an efficient way? Or is it mostly windowdressing and knocking himself on the chest? We may do so, but this does not always produce results. We also have questions about the system of fines. Who gets the fine? The stranger. If he has or has applied for abuse of procedure, he will probably have already been deported in your efficient system. Then one may wonder whether the fine is enforceable, and therefore whether the system is efficient. After all, it could well be that the government needs to invest more money in order to collect the fine. So the real question is whether it's worth the kale. That is why we call for more efficient systems to be sought together with the lawyers. That is why we shall vote against it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u95	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take this opportunity to respond immediately to what Mrs Smeyers said during her speech. She made it appear, or rather, she literally said that left-wing parties are not against unlawful appeals. I think that's punishment! For those who have followed the debate in committee, this does not correspond at all to reality. I hadn't even seen it, Mrs De Coninck, but apparently Secretary of State Francken tweeted that left-wing parties are for such unlawful proceedings, for pitiful appeals and so on. For the sake of my fellow Members and for the sake of Parliament, these provocative schemes which do not correspond to reality may benefit you electorally, but they are fake news. Mrs Smeyers, we were close to an agreement, even in a yes vote to the bill of Secretary of State Francken. We were very close, only two things had to be done. Firstly, we also wanted to pay attention to the negative role that sometimes the Foreign Affairs Office plays in this matter. Indeed, the DVZ is sometimes the cause of grievous procedures, because when he feels that he will be wronged by the RV, he withdraws his decision and submits a new one with a slight change, which makes the client obliged to reapply. We in the committee have asked for attention to be paid to this, rather than making such a one-sided story of it. We were not followed in that. There is a second reason why we were so close to a yes vote on the draft law. We wanted to adapt abuses and move towards a simplified procedure, for example, by going to one session. After all, we had an eye for what Theo Francken said and could also show, namely that sometimes people did not want to organise a second sitting because it was not worth the coal, because it is too expensive a procedure and so on. Our group was open to going to one hearing, but we wanted the lawyer, at the time he was invited to that hearing, to know perfectly what he was thinking, in particular a complaint about unlawful appeals, pitiful proceedings and so on. We also believe that the motivation that would be invoked should be disclosed in such a way that the lawyer, when he goes to that single hearing, at least knows how to prepare and defend himself in relation to that argument. So stop with the schemes, Mrs Smeyers, because that does not correspond to reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u96	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u97	Mrs Smeyers, you have said what you have said and I am tired of you twisting the facts. We were close to an agreement. I will not say that there was a consensus on the draft law, but we were certainly prepared to support it. After all, we wanted to tackle abuse of procedures, but those two elements remained. By the way, the amendment initiated by Mr Lanjri went in the right direction. Thanks to that amendment, the lawyer must now be informed of the fact that such a complaint is being made, but we asked that the lawyer should also be aware of the argument used. Moreover, it still depends on the RV itself whether or not the case is suspended at the hearing in order to give a little more time to the defense. That means the lawyer himself can't enforce that. That decision still depends on the RV. However, the debate evolved well, there were hearings and a good majority amendment. We were almost there, but we weren't there. Those are the facts. For Parliament and for the report, I would like to make a few points about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u98	Mr President, the cdH group voted against in committee. Our position will not change. This position is reinforced by the letter of 20 June 2017 from Mr Buyle, the president of avocats.be. I would point out that he is also the former president of the Ordre des avocats francophones. This text poses a problem and has potential infringements of the European Convention on Human Rights. The speakers, at the hearing on 13 June 2017 in committee, accepted it unanimously. According to Mr. Buyle: "This proposal remains in line with Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights. A court is obviously no longer independent and impartial if, before it has taken the case under deliberation, and even before it has deliberated, the court shows, in questioning the lawyer, that it is preparing to consider that the application will be declared unfounded." For us, this text really is a step backwards from what existed. We wonder about the real purpose of this project. There is a question of better sanctioning abusive remedies. Yet they are not legion, as we have already said. Counsel's orders told us about 20 abuses in 200,000 cases. The number of cases concerned is too small. We therefore maintain our vote against it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u99	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have already had the opportunity to defend, during the hearings and the debate on the bill in committee, the reasons why we are opposed to this bill by the Secretary of State. I'll call them back briefly. The Secretary of State does not use the law to solve a problem (the alleged abuse of aliens' law) since this problem does not exist. The cases are exceptional, as confirmed by the representatives of the Order of Bars heard. He uses it to make it look like there's a problem. This umpteenth amendment to the Aliens Act is, once again, a comprehensive policy of stigmatization. As the Minister of Finance is next to the Secretary of State, I would like to point out that it is a pity that the government does not show such energy and legislative will when it comes to tackling real abuses, such as major tax fraud, the culture of greed or conflicts of interest pinned in the various scandals that erupt recent political life. During the hearings, the orders of the bar associations stressed, in particular, the lack of consultation in the drafting of this bill. We are used to it, on the part of this government. The starting point of this bill is the assertion that there are not enough sanctioned abuses. There have been 20 cases since 2011, so in six years, out of about 100,000 judgments of the Foreign Litigation Council (CCE), if there are 18,000 judgments per year. It's infinitesimal. So there are two possibilities in front of this small number of cases. Either, the number of cases is much larger but they are not punished because the procedure is too complicated. That is the basis of this bill. It is on this thesis that this bill is based. The second assumption is that the number of sanctions is extremely low, as the number of abuses is also extremely low. That is what the representatives of the Ordres des barreaus francophones and Dutch-speaking people told us. I note in passing that the French-speaking and Dutch-speaking bar associations are remarkably united in defending a single democracy. I quote Jean-Marc Picard from the website avocats.be: "That there are few judgments condemning an abusive remedy is a fact that cannot be contested. The deduction to be drawn from this small number of judgments is that there is, in fact, very little abuse of remedies." Unlike the Secretary of State, the representatives we have interviewed have facts that support their thesis because a large number of files are being examined. Since most cases are introduced as part of legal aid, they have the opportunity to check what is in the files. The aim of the draft is to open the possibility of everything happening at the same hearing (consideration on the merits and possible abuse of the appeal). In the face of criticism by both actors on the ground and the Council of State, the majority has indeed introduced an amendment which provides for the possibility of a second hearing, but the latter provides that the CEC may, if necessary, suspend or postpone the hearing. The CEC may therefore unilaterally decide that this is not the case and the lawyer no longer has any possibility at his disposal. This seems to me to be personally difficult to reconcile with the adversarial principle which must enable the applicant and his lawyer, and possibly the lawyer's lawyer, to defend themselves effectively within a minimum period of time, to organise the defence in relation to specific elements which would be raised at the hearing. Therefore, the constitutional right to a fair trial is not respected. This is the opinion not only of the representatives of the Bar Orders but also of the Council of State. Finally, if there is a problem with the abusive procedure, it is rather from the Office of Foreigners. I am thinking in particular of the practice of "carousel" which concerns applications for medical regularisation on the basis of Article 9ter, when the Office of Foreigners withdraws, on numerous occasions, decisions in the framework of ongoing procedures, without seriously reviewing the file. This is a considerable waste of time for the EAC, which, from the point of view of the effectiveness so highlighted by this government, is very counterproductive. I consider this bill to be useless, stigmatizing, anti-democratic and quite problematic, to say nothing more. Taking up the arguments put forward by the government, I played the game and introduced an amendment in committee calling at least for the abuses of the administration, where they exist – which is the case according to the field players – to be punished as well. This would show that efficiency is not just a pretext. This amendment was rejected as a whole by the majority, thereby demonstrating that it was a pretext and that the real purpose was elsewhere, particularly in stigmatization. We will oppose this bill. I note that, unfortunately, the other parties of the majority are following the drifts of the Secretary of State. We have had the opportunity to discuss another of these drifts on current issues. Here's a new example. And the majority's blocking after him. That doesn't grow up, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u100	Mr. Speaker, like the colleagues who spoke, I believe that this bill has been a very controversial one because, once again, the government is making the choice not of the consultation – whatever the Secretary of State says – with the bars, but of the confrontation. During the presentation of the bill in committee, Mr.Franken told us that the bill had been drafted in consultation with the bar associations. However, the representatives of the bar associations informed us that the Secretary of State had indeed met with the representatives of the Flemish bar associations in December 2016, not to involve them in the drafting of this bill, but to question the general issue of abuse of procedure before the Council of the Litigation of Foreigners. They told us that a consensus had emerged, but only on the principle of the disclosure of unfair remedies to the sticker. And nothing about what is proposed in the draft, that is, a real mechanism that denies the right to defence and representation by a lawyer of the applicant. As regards the draft as such, it was therefore communicated to the Bars only once endorsed by the Council of Ministers, which means that they were absolutely not involved in the drafting of this text. No consensus had been reached in advance on the single hearing, on the fines or on the elements for determining their amount. It was only later that two meetings were held with the representatives of the bar, but their questions and criticisms remained unanswered by the representatives of the government. It was therefore necessary to wait until the hearings of the representatives of the bar associations in the parliamentary committee on 13 June before a draft of the text could be envisaged but totally insufficient. Indeed, in its first draft, the draft provided for the principle of a single hearing to assess and the basis of the appeal as such and the possible abuse of the appeal. The principle of a single hearing has been widely criticized, since it is clear that the question of the basis of the appeal and its possible abuse cannot be decided in the course of the same hearing, without giving the appearance of ignoring the principle of impartiality of the judges. This would be an unacceptable breach of the rights of the defence and two of its fundamental principles: the guarantee of the impartiality of the judge and the adversarial procedure. The impartiality of the judges must be effective but also apparent, i.e. that the parties to the trial must be convinced of this because of the procedural conditions guaranteed to them, as well as that the parties must be able to benefit from adversarial proceedings, i.e., which inform the lawyer sufficiently in advance and in a reasoned manner of the complaint invoking a manifestly abusive remedy, in order to enable him to prepare his arguments, which the bill absolutely does not permit. Yet the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court is clear. A hearing must be held at which the applicant must have the opportunity to explain the undueness of his appeal. The bar associations therefore argued for the organisation of a second hearing or for the possibility to postpone it. The bill has, of course, been amended but insufficiently, because the solution chosen does not offer the guarantees required by the Constitutional Court, since it is only possible to suspend a hearing, or possibly to fix a new hearing date, without this being an obligation, since the argument of the unfairness of the appeal would be raised. The perverse effects of the single hearing have therefore been somewhat mitigated but remain of concern, since this is only a possibility left to the discretion of the Litigation Council itself. Such a possibility is all the more absurd and contradictory with the principles that I have recalled that it is not difficult to anticipate the attitude that will be adopted by some members of the Litigation Council, since, by the very admission of the Secretary of State, the request for the abolition of the double hearing comes precisely from the Litigation Council. This was certainly defensible from the point of view of the Litigation Council, but not in the light of the principle of adversariality and the guarantee of impartiality of judges. Secondly, the draft suggests that abusive remedies are particularly observed in the law of foreigners. Why, therefore, provide for a specific sanction procedure for unfair appeals before the Litigation Council, whereas the batons already have legal instruments enabling them to punish lawyers who have made unfair appeals, such sanctions being up to a withdrawal of fees or a temporary suspension of the right to practise the profession of lawyer? The hearings also stressed the usefulness of such a specific procedure before the Litigation Council. It has been pointed out by others that there have been only 20 abusive remedies brought before the Council over the last six years and that, in the context of second-line legal aid, no matter is subject to as much scrutiny as the law of foreigners where the entire procedure is written. The orders of the bar associations therefore do not hesitate to refuse the granting of points for remedies which they consider to be abusive or ill-argued. It is clear from your proposal that the Litigation Council has criteria to assess the amount of the fine - between EUR 125 and EUR 2,500 - but not to assess the manifestly abusive nature of an appeal. In the course of the preparatory work, the Secretary of State gave an overview of the practices which, in his view, would be abusive. However, with regard to the sanction that is intended to be imposed on lawyers and their clients who would have been willing to bring an abuse of remedies, it is appropriate that the criminalization of abuse should be clearly determined by legally defined criteria. This is a condition of overriding legal certainty, failing which the Litigation Council may be given undue power in the light of the assessment of what would be considered an abuser's remedy. Therefore, given these significant legal shortcomings, the lack of foundation and motivation for the mechanisms provided for in the bill and its increasing risk of unconstitutionality, we believe that this bill can only be rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u101	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a great deal has already been said in committee. I just heard the advice from the desks again. It was discussed extensively in the hearing. There have been four or five committee meetings on the three articles before us today. All the questions have already been answered in detail, but I will do my best to give a number of answers again, at your discretion. Firstly, as Mrs Smeyers said, we have seen that the current system, which was developed by Mr Wathelet and the then government, is working sub-optimally. The organisation of a second day of part-session to decide on a dilator use is not taking place, since the Council for Foreign Affairs had a delay of 30 000 files and currently 20 000 files. We ran 10 000 files. Secondly, the punishment of the migrant often has no use, because he is already gone or repatriated, because he is unable to do so or because he is often simply not really aware of the migration procedures in this country. The lawyer then proposes to appeal, whatever he does. This bill comes at the request of the Council of Foreign Ministers itself. The Council for Foreign Affairs has actively contributed to this and has actively promoted this bill. He remains in favour of 100 % because he is convinced that it is a good adjustment, which thoroughly improves Mr Wathelet & co's suboptimal law. I think we should give this draft a chance. The current system is not working. Let us see if we can do it on one day of sitting and whether we can respond to the lawyers through the staffer and partially adjust the penalty system. That's what happened. That's what happens in three articles, with two lectures and everything. I hear it wouldn't be worth the cabbage. That is what we have heard from the entanglement of the foreign law. I have to say, I haven't heard it since. I've heard other things about that law, but I haven't heard that she wouldn't be useful. Anyway, let's check it out. I will certainly have a discussion with the future first President of the Foreign Affairs Council and I will ask him, on behalf of the government, after the law has been published, to pay more attention to dilator use and to apparently unlawful professions. Let us agree that we will do the evaluation in a year's time. We will see whether there have been more unlawful appeals and whether more penalties have been imposed. We're working on it. I met with the staff of the Brussels bar and with many partners in the field in order to remove the abuse of procedure. I think this is working, too, one step at a time. Mr De Vriendt, you say that we were almost there, that we almost had an agreement. I don't think we've really negotiated, but well, you can always agree. You almost agreed. I think that's how it's supposed to be interpreted. There are two things that keep bumping my chest and my group also disagrees with. I may not have understood you correctly, but I have no doubt that you will correct me. First of all, there is the negative role of the Foreign Office. It is true that the Foreign Affairs Office withdraws a decision and makes a new decision in some proceedings without waiting for a ruling. You call that abusive use of the Foreign Office. I don't call that an abusive use of the Foreign Office. That's perfectly legal. I believe that sometimes it is good and can help the migrant, for example, when it has to wait for a ruling from the Council of State or from Cassatie. That can take a very long time and with a long wait for a ruling in such a procedure, we as a stranger have not been helped at all. We are waiting for a ruling on whether or not to obtain a right of residence on Belgian soil.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u102	Mr Francken, may I interrupt you for a moment? Mr Kir asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u103	Mr President, when we talk about the abuse of the administration, we are talking about appeals that are brought by the lawyer who pleads foreign law and are the subject of a favourable decision by the Council of the Litigation of Foreigners. At that time, your administration withdraws the decision and resumes a new decision. This is how we found ourselves, in the Committee on Internal Affairs, with hearings during which many actors, lawyers, ICRÉ and many other institutions explained these situations to us. Typically, in a number of files, your administration, when it loses the part, withdraws the decision! For you, isn't that an abuse? Isn't that an abuse? At one point, there is a procedure: the lawyer lodges an appeal with the Foreign Litigation Council. This board accepts this appeal and the administration withdraws the purpose of the decision to resume a new decision! Round two, again, we're in the same situation! There are cases where three or four times, within two or three years, there is abuse of administration. It's called abuse too! What has been criticized, and it has been said by some, is that you see abuses that do not exist, since the abuses of the lawyers you have spoken of, neither you nor your services, have been able to demonstrate them. Indeed, the Flemish and Francophone bar associations invited you in February to send the complaints. But do you have any complaints? What are we talking about? Why are we here today to discuss a bill that is not based on anything, since there is no complaint? On the other hand, where there are abuses and problems, it is when whole families await regularization or residence permits and your administration challenges the rules, withdraws a decision taken and comes back with a new decision. For us, this is an abuse.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u104	Mr President, Mr Kir, I do not think you have listened carefully. What the Foreign Affairs Office sometimes does is the following and he did so under the Di Rupo government and before. The Foreign Affairs Office sometimes withdraws the decision before the judgment of the RvV and then takes a new decision because he thinks he has little chance of winning. This means that the case is without object and that the case is cancelled, there is no object and therefore no judgment. That is what the Foreign Affairs Office has been doing for years because it is sometimes thought that a particular case is unlikely to be won. Then the department withdraws its decision before the RvV has given its decision, Mr Kir, not after. The service then takes a new decision and does not wait for the Council's ruling on foreign nationals' disputes. That is what happens sometimes. That's not a new practice. I'm not ordering my administration to do that. That's nothing new. That's always been the case. Mr De Vriendt, you said that you did not agree, that there should also be a sanction there. I don't think that's wrong. Secondly, you say that, of course, these lawyers should know, if that is in one hearing, that it may lead to a sanction. That's right. It is also stated that this can also be discussed, that the court may also rule on that unlawful use. In that sense, that is correct. The lawyer may request that the proceedings be suspended. He can say he needs time to dust it further and to refute it. For this purpose, the Judge of the RvV may decide. That's up to the judge, that's the judge's discretion. That makes sense. In my view, it gives sufficient guarantees that the lawyer can give his defence, even at that first hearing, if the judge seeks a conviction that the appeal procedure is manifestly unlawful.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u105	Mr Secretary of State, I am not concerned that the Department of Foreign Affairs should withdraw the decision in such cases, as it can of course do so. The problem is that the department withdraws the decision because it feels that it will be wronged by the Foreign Affairs Council and then immediately takes a virtually similar decision, albeit with a slight deviation, to push through its own opinion. The lawyer of the foreigner concerned is therefore obliged to reapply. The lawyers point the finger at a carousel of appeal procedures, it is all too easy, because these appeal procedures are just being triggered and initiated by practices of the Foreign Affairs Office. The fact that the Department of Foreign Affairs withdraws a decision if it is unsuccessful is not in itself the problem, but that it again makes almost the same decision. Second, you're talking about the lawyer's arguments. A lawyer who goes to that one hearing should not only know whether or not he is dealing with a complaint concerning the unlawful use of appeal procedures, but that lawyer must also know what arguments will be put before him. Otherwise, he won't be able to defend himself in that one hearing, will he? It is therefore logical that the lawyer should ask for a second hearing, in between, so that he can study the counter-arguments. We believe that these two points remain valid. However, we were close to an agreement in committee and it was possible to reach an agreement after the debate we had.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u106	Mr De Vriendt, what you say about the decisions of the Department of Foreign Affairs, I find somewhat strange. If the Department of Foreign Affairs is in danger of losing an appeal, the decision will be withdrawn, but will he not make the same decision almost exactly? It will almost certainly lose the DVZ again. It is therefore not true that almost the same decision is being taken, because the DVZ knows that it will not achieve this legally. The justification shall be adjusted or strengthened in order to win the subsequent procedure. It would be rather foolish, in the case of an appeal, to withdraw a decision and then make almost the same decision, in which only half a word or a sentence has been changed. That's not the way it's gonna be handled. What you say is not correct. Secondly, you say that the lawyer has no guarantees because the lawyer may be confronted with a conviction that the appeal procedure is manifestly unlawful, and that he is unable to prepare himself adequately. I would ask you to tell me why this procedure has been in place for many years in the Council of State, with the ruling of an apparently illegal use. I've never heard you say anything about that or hear you complain about it. I have never heard you submit a bill that would violate the rights of lawyers or the rights of a client in an appeal procedure with the Council of State. I don't know about that. You have two sizes and two weights here. You say that you cannot approve this bill because you do not believe that there are sufficient guarantees for the legal profession. However, the Council of State has been so for years. I've never known anyone to complain about that before. Never. How is that even possible? Explain that to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u107	It is not because this practice exists at the Council of State that it is therefore a good practice. We have learned from the hearings held in connection with your draft law that this is not good practice. So I do not think it is wise to reinstall it now. On the contrary, we must try to do even better every time mistakes are made. Secondly, with regard to the practice of the Foreign Affairs Office that I have just described, excuse me, but it will happen in a moment. By the way, this has been put forward as such by the representative of the Order of Flemish Balies, whom we have heard, as problematic. This is therefore a testimony from the Order of Flemish Baries which points out that the Department of Foreign Affairs does indeed act in this way, withdraws a decision and then again makes almost the same decision, perhaps in the hope that there will be no new appeal, that the lawyer will give up and that the decision can be enforced. I can only say that it is a good thing that we have had those hearings, that we have heard experts. If the government had responded to these two objections, we could have voted in favour of this bill. So we're advanced. As far as the majority amendment is concerned, too, we have evolved in the right direction, as I have just said. However, the process has stopped at a certain point in time, so that the opposition does not really have the opportunity to join that bill anymore. That's too bad, it could have been different.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u108	Secretary of State, we understand your answers. But, in the end, what are you being blamed for? You are accused of presenting us with a project aimed at punishing lawyers for abuses they would commit in terms of appeals to the Foreign Litigation Council. We need an objectified scientific approach. You are being asked about the complaints, their number, their quantity and you are unable to produce anything. That is what is shocking. So, if you have to be indignant, it's about the absence of a complaint. There's no complaint. There is no problem and we come with a bill that stigmatizes lawyers who do their jobs in existing procedures. Penalties are currently provided for at the Bar Association. And you're coming with a bill that stigmatizes lawyers. That is what we are unworthy of and shocking about. And you are advancing your joker, Mr. Wathelet and the socialists who were previously in power. It's a laugh to die! If there are indeed abuses in the head of the Aliens Office, which already existed before, we will table a proposal for a law to set a framework and to prevent the misuse of public services. Indeed, abuses do exist. When a family asks for regularization and obtains a positive decision from the Foreign Litigation Council, what does your service do? It shall withdraw the said decision and resume a new one! That's unworthy! How many times has this happened? Three, four times, in some cases. Remember the medical regulation, Mr. Franken. They came to the Committee on the Interior and testified about the situation. This is a question of seriously ill people who are asking for only one thing: to be able to receive medical assistance, to be able to obtain a residence permit and to have a normal life or, in any case, to be able to finish it for many of them. What is the administration doing? Every time she feels that the Foreign Litigation Council will issue a residence permit, she intervenes to amend the decision. This is vicious and unworthy of us because today you are stigmatizing lawyers who have nothing to blame for. Mr Secretary of State, we have heard testimony in the Committee on the Interior at the hearings of the bodies and associations. So we ask you to give up this bill that stigmatizes lawyers and is useless because you have not been able, within six months, to file a written complaint about a lawyer who would not do his job well.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u109	Mr. Kir, I can understand your indignation. We are in democracy and I will fight so that you can say what you are saying. I just wish you had the same indignation for a country that is close to you and that locks up 150,000 people without any law decisions! [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u110	Mr Flahaux, I invite you to judge our colleagues on the basis of their actions and not their genes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u111	If there's anyone who's anti-racist, it's me! This is not a question of racism. I denounce ideological proximity!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u112	I want to talk about something completely different. I think you should take the profession of attorneys a little more seriously. Someone who knows the foreign contentieux and knows the practices of some appeal procedures sees the need for the legislative proposal that is now before us. That is also necessary for the lawyers who do seriously pursue their profession. In any appeal procedure, it is the duty of the lawyer to be a judge first and to decide whether or not to appeal. With regard to foreign contentieux, it is known that, whatever some may claim, there are lawyers who systematically initiate copy-paste appeals and thus cripple the whole system. If an administration sees that she's wrong and wants to correct that mistake, I don't think it's more than normal. Colleague, what you say about the legal profession is completely wrong. Even the lawyers themselves are requesting parties to ensure that these appeal procedures are seriously addressed and believe that these legislative changes are necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u113	Mr President, I would like to reply to my colleague. In the Committee on the Interior, we had the opportunity to hear the testimony of the representatives of the two bars. All explained that there were no problems with the current procedures. On the other hand, they regretted the lack of consultation with the Secretary of State. They then noted that 19 complaints had been dealt with in the past six years. In view of the thousands of cases reviewed, this number is small or even trivial. That's why they didn't see why the government was coming with a bill. Their feeling is that Mr. Francken and, unfortunately, the majority, thus stigmatize the work of lawyers, since the complaints do not exist. I have just invited the Secretary of State to introduce them. However, they are non-existent. You know that when you work, you don't waste your time. And Mr Franken actually loses it in Parliament. Why? Because it allows him to adopt a political posture. These are political maneuvers to say of his detractors that they defend foreigners! In order to continue typing them, he now targets lawyers, who have nothing to blame – as well as foreigners, in any case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u114	Mr President, I would like to reiterate that we are against procedural abuse. We have discussed this for a long time in committee. We need to look at what is the best instrument to combat this. I would particularly like to respond to what the colleague of the N-VA said. The lawyers have asked themselves to find another way to do that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u115	Mr President, indeed, in order to strengthen that last argument. The hearings were interesting, Mrs Dumery. The Order of the Flemish Bar Association, i.e. the group of lawyers, spoke there and protested against the bill. People want to deal with the abuse that is certain to occur from time to time in a different way.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u116	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u117	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2491/5) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2491-5) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u118	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u119	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Benoît Piedboeuf, rapporteur, referred to his written report. Mr. Daniel Senesael has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u120	Madam Minister, I will not be very long because we have already had the opportunity to talk at length in committee. However, I would like to return to two important elements of this text, namely the opening of blood donation to men who have sex with other men on the one hand, and the definition of criteria for future hospital programming on the other. With regard to the amendments to the 1994 Law on Blood and Blood Derivatives of Human Origin, it has always been clear to our group that transfusion safety must be guaranteed and that the donation of blood cannot be made into an absolute duty. However, the final exclusion of men who have sex with other men was undeniably a question. Stigmatizing part of the population on the basis of their sexual orientation, fuelling the myth of a community whose sexual practices are systematically dangerous, risky, or even unhealthy, nourishing the idea that homosexuality is necessarily the cause of diseases, it was a problem. When donating blood, our group believes it is essential that only the criterion of blood quality be examined, not the origin of the population from which it originates. In order to judge the risk of blood contamination by a sexually transmitted disease, it is essential to analyse sexual behaviour, whether it occurs between persons of the same sex or of different sex, and not the sexual orientation of the donor. In fact, the PS had tabled a motion for a resolution to that effect several months ago. Today's amendments to the 1994 Act were therefore expected. They were all the more so as we had to respond to the judgment of 29 April 2015 of the Court of Justice of the European Union, which also ruled on the subject. Today, we believe that we are taking a step that I would call symbolic. It concerns, as I said in committee, only men who have had occasional or accidental homosexual relations. For gays, the situation doesn't change. They will still be tomorrow, de facto, purely and simply excluded, a period of abstinence of twelve months being required to access the gift. Is that a good solution and, moreover, is there one? As mentioned by the Supreme Council of Health, in the context of balancing the right to health protection and the principle of equality for blood donors, it seems justified to place more weight on the first fundamental right than on the right to be allowed, like others, to donate blood. For our group, a proper balance must be struck between these fundamental rights. We also recognize the Minister's willingness to open up, which is based today on the scientific and epidemiological advice available to her. In our view, however, it is essential that this issue be regularly assessed. At our request, a broad exchange of views will be held at the beginning of the year so that the members of the Health Committee can also have all the relevant elements, and see in particular how new developments could emerge in this context. I particularly thank the minister and the chair of our commission for that. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I come back to this important chapter on hospital offer programming. There is no doubt that our group can quite fit into a hospital programming logic, in order to best meet the needs of patients by guaranteeing them accessible and quality care while using the means available in the best way possible. There is also no doubt that we are in favour of transparent, scientifically sound, depoliticized and evolving programming. On the other hand, where I have serious doubts, it is about your ability, Madam Minister, and that of the government, to set up such programming without giving in to the budgetary mermaids or even the community. You pretended in committee not to understand the parallel we were making, like others of my colleagues elsewhere, with the files of the INAMI numbers. I will therefore repeat my remarks in another way. You say you want to rely on transparent scientific data. As part of the definition of INAMI quotas, you had precisely that scientific data from the Planning Commission in your hands. However, you ignored this data to give in to your majority partners. A highly political decision, this kind of decision you say you want to avoid today. We'd like to believe you! How can you believe then that a whole series of cost-saving measures have been carried out in our health care and specifically in hospitals, without they being based on scientific data that takes into account the needs of patients? Here, it was the budget data that prevailed. And then, if studies are to be used or carried out, they must be of good quality, published by university researchers or by recognized national centres. Madam Minister, you will not have to choose the studies on which you are going to base their results in order to guarantee the policy you want to conduct. The process must be in the right direction. In this regard, I must confess that our group remains suspicious. Nor will it be necessary to impose a vision, your vision, without consultation with the sector and specifically with the Federal Council of Hospital Institutions, without consultation with the federated entities that might obviously disagree with the distribution of this programming that you will set. You have confirmed in committee - apparently unilaterally - that if an agreement cannot be reached, we would then find ourselves in the same imbroglio as with the planning of the medical offer, an imbroglio which will penalize the health professionals concerned and which will run counter to the needs of the patients. Here too, the consultation to which you refer several times in your text does not convince us. Finally, you will allow me to remain dubative about what you call the "special power" that was entrusted to you until the end of the legislature. Indeed, certain provisions relating to this programming are surprisingly limited in duration and will cease to have effect at the end of this legislature. Incomprehension on the part of the Council of State and on the part of our group. As we move forward with the reform of hospital financing, it seems unlikely that the implementation of the programming we are talking about will be resolved by the end of the legislature. In conclusion, while we have been able to obtain satisfaction on some points during the committee discussions, I must admit that some of the minister's answers have been very important to us. For these reasons, as we did in committee, we will abstain from this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u121	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is my colleague Jean-Jacques Flahaux who will speak on the chapter on the blood donation of men who have sex with men, as Mr Senesael has just done. I will focus on two specific elements, Chapter 3 and Chapter 5. [[Chapter 3 deals with hospital reform.]] I would not like to repeat what has already been said in committee or in this House, but there are a number of elements for us in this hospital reform that are extremely important and I cannot do anything other than mention them. The purpose of this reform is to improve the quality of care, which is a fundamental element that is all too often overlooked, and to provide care that is accessible to all and close to the patient. Some are dubitative, but it will be worth seeing, when things are in place, the interest that the patient will find there. Above all, we are always talking about the sustainability of the future of hospital care, thanks to a system that aims to be sustainable. It is obvious that we must take this into account. The programming aims at effective supply management. It is very interesting to focus on the criteria used for this programming. A fundamental element is the criterion of transparency, which is scientifically sound, although I have heard that some people doubt it. Another is the criterion of depoliticization of the decision that will be taken, with proactive implementation. I did not understand why parallelism was done with the INAMI numbers, but I do not think that this debate should be reopened in the context of the current draft. Minister, I will also draw your attention, as I did in committee, to the issue of access to and availability of health care in rural areas. It's extremely important. I am thinking specifically of the province of Luxembourg. I have no doubt about your willingness to keep this in mind, but I think it is good to remind you systematically. Let me turn to Chapter 5. Ultimately, what we recommend, what you recommend, is your negotiation with the doctors following their denunciation of the medicomutualistic agreement. We know that the climate was difficult and that dialogue had to be renewed. It is sometimes said that you do not consult. Here, it was proof of a will for dialogue, and that this will succeed. I would also like to recall that articles 28 to 56 reflect this negotiation for the benefit of health-care providers. Two elements need to be taken into account. On the one hand, the legal basis for allowing care providers who are still active after their actual retirement to benefit from social benefits. This necessary change was expected by the persons concerned. On the other hand, the legal basis for paying for the training of doctors in non-university hospitals. It's been on hold so far. We're getting a result. This will certainly not be a luxury, when it will soon be necessary to "absorb" the double cohort. That, Madam Minister, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, is what I wanted to highlight today. Our MR group will obviously support your bill, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u122	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the draft before us today devotes a whole chapter to ending, at last, the permanent exclusion of homosexuals from the blood donation. We have been waiting for progress in this area for many years. Ten years ago, when I became a Member of Parliament, I asked – I remember, it was in the Congress Hall – the Minister of Health, Laurette Onkelinx. At that time, in one of my questions, I referred to Sweden. The Swedish Christian Democratic Minister had already accepted the donation of blood from homosexuals. Unfortunately, Minister Onkelinx did not respond favourably to my request. Yet, it is more important than ever to put an end to this discrimination, which is to exclude homosexuals from the donation of blood for life. That was no longer acceptable. It will never be recalled enough: it is risky sexual behaviour that must be taken into account, not sexual orientation, for both homosexuals and heterosexuals. It's a long way to go, Minister! You took the problem with the body and I wanted to thank you for it. You first took into account the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union in April 2015, which held that Directive 2004/33/EC should be interpreted as meaning that the criteria for the permanent exclusion of blood donation are not justified if, in accordance with the principle of proportionality, there are effective techniques for detecting such serious infectious diseases transmitted by blood or, in the absence of such techniques, less restrictive methods than such a contraindication to ensure a high level of health protection for recipients. Secondly, I know that you have convened an important round table with scientists, transfusion institutions, professors of ethics and sociology and representatives of homosexual movements. At the end of this round table, you clearly expressed your willingness to end the lifetime exclusion of men who have sex with men, on the basis of new scientific concepts. You then instructed the Supreme Council of Health to study the issue in order to identify, on the basis of scientific justifications and the regulatory context, a number of procedures which are less restrictive than the permanent exclusion of HSH but which guarantee and preserve maximum blood donation safety for any recipient. Through measures taken by our country, we are in fact aligning ourselves with other countries such as France, the Netherlands, Canada and the United Kingdom. We also follow the Higher Council on the temporary exclusion of at least 12 months. Is this totally satisfactory? Of course not! Criticism over the twelve-month period continues to be heard. I know them myself. We probably don't go far enough, but this is an important step. I would remind those who wish to hear that we are moving from a permanent exclusion as applied by governments over the past decade to a temporary exclusion. Minister, I recognize and salute your pragmatism. You are planning an assessment every two years that could lead to a reduction, if any, in the reference period. That is what I plead in my personal capacity. Therefore, we will support your measures that take into account the necessary safety of blood, the evolution of science and citizens who wish to give blood responsibly to make a valuable contribution to health. That being the case, I am still making a little proposal. One might also imagine that the document that is signed by homosexual men who want to give their blood, attesting that they have not had any relations during the previous year, is signed by everyone, because there are also heterosexuals who have multiple sexual adventures as may be the case for some male homosexuals. This is my proposal, after this important step, to move forward the debate and this already positive progress!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u123	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will speak on behalf of the Ecolo-Groen Group on some aspects of this bill containing various provisions on health. I will begin with this important first chapter on the transformation of the assessment of the ability of a blood donor to give blood based on the risky sexual behaviour that he or she has or does not have. What is important is that the current provisions bring about a paradigm shift. A group of people is no longer excluded on the basis of sexual identity or on a permanent basis. On the other hand, there is a temporary exclusion of persons who adopt sexual practices that are considered to be at risk. Like my colleagues, I obviously stress the progress that this represents and the way in which the work has been done. Reference is made to opinions which have also evolved. Indeed, the scientific opinions of two or even three years ago were not identical to those of today. The need to refer to practices and not to groups of citizens was recognized. In addition, the evolution of tests to detect and assess the quality of blood has been taken into account. So we are in an evolutionary process that must integrate the advances, which must continue, in screening. However, Minister, the process needs to define risk behaviours more precisely. Today, it is considered that a man who has a sexual relationship with a man necessarily engages in risky behaviour. However, homosexual relationships can be achieved without resorting to risky practices. Much more intensive information and prevention policy will be needed among the general population and young homosexuals in particular to ensure that they are aware of what constitutes a sexual practice at risk, as well as how to protect themselves and avoid the risk of contamination. The aim is to put an end to the exclusion that still affects men who have sex with other men, since they are deprived of sex for 12 months. Asking someone not to have sex with someone else for a year is obviously illusory. The consequence will be either a false statement or we won't understand very well...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u124	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u125	Or at our age, Mr. Frédéric! But perhaps you have just discovered sexual practices that are not at risk! [[Laughs]] By interviewing older people, it may be possible to improve the quality of the questionnaire, so that risk practices could be specifically identified. Thus, we could pursue an information and prevention policy with a view to reducing the number of references to six or twelve months – or even removing them. Anyway, it's important to know exactly what we're talking about. It is sometimes useful to put words on practices. That said, it is true that we did not spontaneously think of seniors as guides and wise men; but it is an idea, minister, that is suggested to you on-line. I can thus draw up a report on the need to work on this questionnaire. Mr Senesael insisted in committee on collective reflection and communication between scientific bodies, transfusion centres, the authors of the questionnaire, but also the associations representing the donors. The purpose is to know exactly what this questionnaire is about - is it really interested in practices? - its possibilities for improvement and the criteria for assessing the quality of the given blood. There is no question here of seeking a balance between the quality/security of blood and the respect - therefore, non-stigmatization - of people. These two requirements are equally important and are also a priority. Taking into account this paradigm shift, the proposed evaluation, and the attention paid to these risk practices, we have supported these provisions in committee, Minister, and we will continue to support them. In this area, work will have to be continued. Finally, I urge you to begin a reflection with the Communities which are in charge of health prevention and promotion. Indeed, collective work must be carried out, which will benefit all levels of power as well as all aspects of health. It is now known that sexually transmitted diseases are on the rise, that there is a decrease in the vigilance of people with risky behaviours or relationships. Work must therefore be done with the population as a whole and especially with young people. Minister, this bill includes other chapters on which we have interacted in committee. As other Members have already done, I would like to highlight the concerns or questions that may arise about the measures you are proposing, in particular with regard to hospital programming, equipment, the operation of heavy equipment, etc. Of course, we can only follow you when you want to put in place transparent scientific criteria and methods to organise this programming aimed, in a way, at ensuring that any financing of equipment is intended for the purchase of equipment which has been authorised under programming. In that case, of course, I can only share your concerns. However, I still have questions despite the exchange we had. Indeed, I really feel that the actors on the ground are no longer – and it is also complicated for us – able to link the programming stage that falls under federal jurisdiction, the steps that are under way in the area of hospital landscape reform that fall, on certain aspects, within your competence, and the other aspects that fall within the competence of the federated entities. How is a geographical distribution of hospitals organized? How are hospital facilities linked to outpatient care? Depending on the devices you put in place, you have to tarnish the evolution of hospital care with less and less cure and more and more care. To say this automatically means that, in health care that is funded by the federal government, there is a transfer to care aids that would be more dependent on care and accompaniment and, therefore, could escape federal funding. I would therefore not like to see a system of scientific programming whereby care is transferred to other forms of aid and to skills and funding from the federal to the federated entities, without this being said or the result of work with the Communities. I would also like to refer to the delegation of benefits in dental care. I would like to recall this provision by which you authorize the dentist to delegate certain benefits to other providers, specialized nurses or paramedics. The latter can be recognized, which is a good thing indeed. I would like to draw attention once again to the denturists. I am not a specialist in this matter, but in your response in committee, you have said something that is included in the comments in the bill, namely, that we will not be able to delegate, including the placement or adaptation of removable prosthetics. For me, this means that we will not be able to delegate to those who today have trained to perform these kinds of services, without being recognized as denturists, and who are working precisely in the area of removable prosthetics. Your explanatory statement shows that this cannot be done and that you automatically exclude a category of people, who could become paramedics, and who are now denturists. I would like to stress that these providers exist. It is true that we are seeing an increase in implants, as you said in committee. However, implants are expensive. It's not applicable to everyone. Many people, especially the elderly, are using and will still use removable prosthetics. These practices and care must be taken into account. I would like to repeat what I said in committee: if we want to apply higher skill and training requirements to claimants than we do today, in order to be able to recognise them and to be able to delegate benefits to them, there is no problem. It is worth considering in this way rather than excluding certain professions, perhaps because others would be afraid to lose control of certain acts or to lose certain monopolies of benefits. With regard to the provisions relating to conventions, there was a willingness to regulate denunciations. At the same time, I cannot help but relate to the provisions to amend the rules for the financing of health care in the context of the state budget. The health care budget is adjusted according to the federal budget rather than a needs assessment. In view of the fact that the 1.5 per cent growth standard announced is not being met despite the commitments made, it is particularly important that, in the way in which the consultation bodies of INAMI are to be integrated, they should have their place. What will be proposed to the Government and the Council of Ministers should not become a rule that is necessary because of overall budgetary policies and not because of the need for health care. With regard to the transmission of data between mutual societies and INAMI, I share your concern that this data will be transmitted automatically, without having to proceed. Nevertheless, I do not see sufficient vigilance on all the devices that are being put in place today to ensure the collection of data via computer tools. The transmission of data between different structures leads to methods of encoding and encryption, sometimes anonymization and pseudonymization. These methods are not always well defined and the impact they may have on these data is not measured. At the moment, we are working on Big Data in the field of health, within the Scientific and Technological Advisory Committee of which Mr Foret is Chairman. Clearly, there are elements that push for questioning, vigilance and the need to ensure, whether in software, platform management or rule-making, that there is not only one or two people who control everything and hold all the controls. This could lead to concerns about the protection of privacy and the provision of information that, although not intended, is accessible to unauthorized persons. Minister, despite the positive elements, there are also the elements that are at issue, and that is why we are finally abstaining on the bill. Among the positive elements, I would like to point out the possibility of granting premiums for medical internships in non-university hospitals - this is important. I want to believe, and I will be attentive to it, at your discretion, thanks to the provisions of this bill, to make the budgets for the "section 81" drug conventions more transparent. Today is not clear. The members of the management committee of INAMI are no longer able to meet there. They feel that the excess in pharmaceutical care is greater than what is agreed in the pact with the pharmaceutical industry and that it is the other health care sectors that have to save at their expense. If the provisions presented here allow for greater clarity, transparency and understanding, this may help to correct this perception and analysis. The last positive element: even if everything remains to be done, there will finally be a legal basis for defining new criteria extending the status of palliative patients. I call on you to act quickly because we have been waiting for and working in Parliament on this matter for a long time. That is why we abstained on this bill, Mr. Speaker.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u126	Madam and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have a little precondition, if I may, and it is also for your attention, Mr President. I would like to recall that this bill with various provisions consists of 500 pages that were sent to us on Monday evening for consideration and voting no later than 48 hours later. I find that this is not serious in the head of government and not respectful, especially since in such a project with various provisions, there is a little bit of everything. Among these, there is good, Madam Minister, and at least good. First the good one! I support the positive elements of this dossier, even if I take the opportunity to pass on a number of messages. Good news, Minister, with the extension of the categories of blood donors. My colleagues have already referred to the new provisions concerning the donation of blood by persons with sexual behaviour at risk, which have been made on the basis of the opinions of the Higher Health Council. I would also like to refer here to the extension of the categories for certain patients suffering from hereditary haemochromatosis, stable patients since when they are treated with bleeding, rather than throwing their blood, it can be extremely advantageous to be able to keep this blood. Let me remind you that the issue is not just to vote for a piece of legislation. The point is to move on to the act. Let us remember that it was in February 2016, therefore, 18 months ago, that the law allowed it. Nothing has been done since then. You had to make royal orders to make these arrangements a reality. We're still waiting. This is a shame since periods of blood deficiency most often occur during the holidays. We are now in the middle of a holiday and perhaps this blood would have been useful this summer. So I expect you to achieve this in the next three months. Good also in the bill on various provisions on the delegation of dentists to the mondzorgassistent, provided of course that this can increase the percentage of the population who will consult the dentist regularly, since all the stakes of prevention and especially of the early detection of dental pathologies remain a major and on which one is largely perfectable. In fact, even today, more or less importantly, certain categories, particularly the most precarised ones, escape all this early detection of dental pathologies. Minister, on this point, I deplore your position, or rather your changing speech, depending on the circumstances, on the reform of Royal Order 78, the coordinated law of May 2015. On other issues related to the amendment of this Royal Decree 78, you said you wanted to wait before working on a comprehensive reform. But when it suits you, namely here, you do the opposite. I look forward to the following, namely that we can now really move forward on the reform expected of Royal Decree 78. It's been dragging around for a while. You have announced a comprehensive reform. You're making an exception here. I hope that this comprehensive reform will finally happen. I finally have some good things to say about the third and final part, with the definition of the palliative patient. Again, I expect you to follow up, especially with sufficient resources, which is absolutely not the case today, so that palliative care can be provided to all patients who request it. I have just mentioned the good, but there is also at least good, and even much less good! The twelve sections of your bill that give concrete expression to the programming of care, heavy medical equipment and licensed medical services included in the programming within the meaning of the Hospitals Act are a real problem to me. In other words, the modalities and procedure for reforming the hospital landscape are a problem for me in your bill. This is a problem for me because you decide through this bill to amend the existing procedure. Let us remember that today you have the obligation, before any reform, to obtain first and foremost the opinion of the Federal Council of Hospital Institutions. You decide to abolish the consultation with the actors represented in the Federal Council of Hospital Institutions. For me, this is a real problem, since it transforms compulsory consultation with the health actors, and especially the hospitals, into a concertation of facades, after the fact. The law provides that you are simply subject to the obligation to send them your decisions. In other words, we cut the grass under their feet! Moreover, you stop the consultation with the federated entities since you establish a form of consultation on the façade: you plan a simple period of two months between the start of the consultation and the decision taken in the Council of Ministers, without constraint and without even having a decision in the Interministerial Conference. You simply state that the result must be indicated in the report to the King. It's like that or nothing, it's the same thing! You have therefore set up a bogus consultation, Madam Minister, even though in the reform of the hospital landscape, a system of codecision between the federal and the federated entities seems indispensable to be effective. I'll give you an example. If you decide on a series of changes in programming, you know as well as I do that the federated entities will have to be able to follow the work of reconditioning or renovation of the services whose activities are reoriented, in compliance with the new standards. In this respect, if you act without any consultation with the federated entities, you will have a time lag that will pose a real problem on the ground. We will not be effective in public health policy, in the field or for patients! Finally, with regard to the so-called evidence-based approach to the criteria for planning and reforming the hospital landscape, let me tell you how dubitative I am about your approach. You're saying we're going to use the scientific criteria now. I'm not going to remind you of the number of files where you ignored the scientific criteria. A colleague spoke earlier about the Medical Planning Commission. I can talk about tobacco, alcohol, so many cases where there was indisputable evidence-based, but you decided not to follow the scientific advice. It's good to quote evidence-based medicine, but we still have to act accordingly, and not only when it suits you. Here, you did not define what scientific criteria you were going to use, or who would choose them, who would study and who would eventually arbitrate if the studies were not converging. This scientific dressing seems eminently political to me, Madam Minister. So it's for me anything but something that makes sense, everything but positive progress. I do not see my colleagues from the MR, in any case those who spoke earlier. Another 24 hours ago, we discussed on the basis, in particular, of the opinion of the field players: whether it is on day-hospital child-psychiatry beds, or on the paediatric and maternity services, the decisions and modalities of consultation that are going wrong and the decisions are detrimental to the patients. You will understand that because of the choice of procedures, the terms and conditions that you are amending here for hospital programming, I will not support this bill. You impose these choices, Madam Minister, without effectively linking them with the federated entities, by boycotting the National Council of Hospitals and thus the health actors. It is a political strategy that I do not share in any way, and which could be particularly harmful for patients and health actors. So we will not support your bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u127	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we support a number of measures contained in this draft law on various provisions. That is the case, among other things, for the historic decision not to permanently exclude men who have sex with men from blood donation. We are pleased that lifelong exclusion is finally being abolished, that the emphasis is placed on risk behaviour and that a whole population is no longer stigmatized. In the new scheme, as with other risk groups, blood should not be given to men who have had sex with men up to 12 months after risk behaviour. We support the demand of various LGBT organisations to further shorten the exclusion period in the long term, in line with the new scientific insights that have come to us over the past few months and years. With regard to another measure in Chapter 3, in particular the new procedure for the programming of hospitals, we support that programming will now be based on a scientific analysis. At the same time, we have some serious questions about the proposed procedure. We fear that efficiency and quality will not be achieved as long as performance-related funding stands in the way. However, that is an essential condition for us. On page 21, the explanatory memorandum states: "The service is almost entirely subsidised by the government and is also performance driven. Hospitals often have no interest in reducing inefficient supply." As long as the examinations and consultations will be reimbursed per performance, the performance in each hospital network will be increased to get their share of the budget. The more hospitals face financial problems because of savings, the stronger that effect is likely to become. We are in favour of abandoning this performance medicine and paying all doctors a reasonable wage, as in university hospitals. Finally, the scientific studies underlying the new programming will be carried out by university bodies or by the Belgian Health Care Knowledge Centre. That must indeed be mandatory for us. After all, we want to avoid a situation, as is currently the case with the district health centres, in which the study would be carried out by KPMG, an organisation which is at the same time a major lobby for the privatisation of health care. For these reasons and in view of the fact that various laws have been incorporated into a law, we will abstain from voting on this draft law containing various provisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u128	Mr President, Madam Minister, I did not have the opportunity to speak in committee on the issue of blood donation, being retained in another committee. Chapter 2 of the draft law is intended to respond to the decision of the CGUE of 29 April 2015, which held that "the criterion of permanent exclusion of blood donation as applied in Belgium is not justified if, in accordance with the principle of proportionality, there are effective techniques for the detection of these serious infectious diseases, transmissible by blood or, in the absence of such techniques, methods less restrictive than such a contraindication to ensure a high level of health protection for recipients". It is also intended to respond to the motion for a resolution which I had the pleasure of co-signing with the Socialist colleagues and which asks the government "to prepare a bill to reformulate clearly the criteria for the exclusion of the law of 5 July 1994, so that the criteria for the exclusion of blood donation are limited to risky behaviour and therefore do not contain any provision which would systematically exclude a fringe of the population for reasons other than purely objective and justified by avoiding, for example, any exclusion because of the sexual orientation of a donor who, however, has adequate behaviour with regard to the prevention of the risk of disease transmission". The Government therefore adopts the opinion of the Supreme Council of Health, which considers that "the donation of blood is not one of the rights and freedoms of individuals and that it is a voluntary civic act which can be refused, that the principle of equality in respect of candidates for the donation of blood must be respected, without prejudice to the protection of the right to the protection of the health of the recipients of blood and above all, that a period of exclusion of 12 months may be justified, an option which the legislator wishes to take advantage of". It is also based on current epidemiological data in Belgium which confirm that "sexual relations between men lead to a highly increased risk of serious infectious diseases transmitted by blood, even if they are stable". It would also appear that the increased risk of HIV is most clearly present in donors with HSH contacts less than a year ago. Therefore, the government chooses a one-year opt-out policy after the last HSH contact, which, in its view, ensures a high level of blood product safety for recipients, without taking into account another important point made by the Higher Health Council, namely that a period of less than 12 months can very well be retained but on the condition that an in-depth study takes place. LGBT associations rightly denounce this new temporary exclusion. According to them, it is not normal for people who have had sexual contact with a new partner to be excluded for four months, while men who have had sexual contact with another man – who, by the way, may be a new partner – are excluded for twelve months. Indeed, if the bill provides for a temporary exclusion for each behaviour of the donor or his or her sexual partner that involves a risk of contracting a serious infectious disease, transmitted by blood and therefore not only to HSH, there remains discrimination between them and heterosexuals. For HSH, the exclusion remains automatic for a period of one year, while for others, blood transfusion establishments will take the trouble of assessing whether an exclusion is justified in the light of the principle of proportionality. The project is also stigmatizing that it continues to place men who have sex with men, men who have sex with swingers, sex workers, people with multiple partners and intravenous or intramuscular drug users on the same footing, considering that they are at an increased and identical risk of contracting a sexually transmitted disease, which is of course wrong. Finally, the project poses a practicality problem which is observed in countries which have adopted the same system, such as France and Great Britain. How to ensure a one-year abstinence period? Therefore, while it is pleased that the project provides for a biennial evaluation of the criteria for the temporary exclusion of blood donation, it remains regrettable that a more proportional solution could not be sought in advance. I think, indeed, that if the project goes in the right direction, the twelve-month exclusion period is too long and must therefore be replaced by a period of four months, amply sufficient because it covers all sexually transmitted diseases. Finally, I wonder about HSH who have a rare blood type and for whom there is a real shortage in our hospitals. Should the exclusion, in this case, also be automatic and for a period of 12 months? With regard to the new procedure for the programming of hospitals, you promise a correct hospital offer based on indisputable, scientifically sound and depoliticized criteria. I would like to believe you, but I remain cautious because I find that the scientific basis is not respected by your majority when it comes to medical supply. We found this in the Medical Supply Planning Commission in relation to the 40/60 ratio. I therefore hope that political decisions will indeed be taken in accordance with scientifically sound criteria, because the principle of subjecting programming to objective criteria is obviously a good approach in itself. In our view, consultation with the federated entities is an essential aspect of this project. You are planning a concertation only to distribute programming among the federated entities and, if an agreement is not possible, the federal state will decide. Like several colleagues, I have argued in committee for consultation at all stages, as soon as the criteria are defined. In your responses, you simply recalled that consultation with the federated entities in the framework of the Interministerial Conference was optional. This answer seems a little simplistic to me in terms of the issues at stake. Indeed, it must be possible to verify that the criteria adopted take account of regional realities. For example, to determine the programming of maternity and paediatrics, it is important to rely on the birth rate, which is significantly different from one Region to another. On the other hand, the short period of time that this project reserves for consultation with the federated entities is not such as to reassure us. Finally, more generally, this dialogue seems essential to me in order to achieve optimal coordination between the curative and the preventive, with the aim of giving greater attention to the latter – as you are advocating, on the other hand. In conclusion, your project has positive aspects, but we will abstain for all the reasons outlined above.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u129	Mr President, I would like to thank all the members of the Committee on Health for the great work that has been done over the past year. I would also like to thank the services for drawing up all the reports. With the bill on various health provisions, we are making two changes to the provisions in force in the area of blood donation. Firstly, we give persons with haemochromatosis who are in a maintenance phase the opportunity to give blood. Secondly, this is a major step forward.... no one is excluded from blood donation because of sexual orientation, but because of the risk of infection for the patient. All members of the committee agreed on this. However, the fact that men who have sex with men are excluded from blood donation for 12 months after contact has to do with the fact that the risk of infection is 1 in 20, whereas in heterosexuals it is 1 in 5 000. However, if scientific progress can be made in the areas of prevention, preventive administration of medicinal products in case of risk behaviour and immediate treatment in case of HIV infection, thereby reducing the risk, the period of absinence may be reduced. Many members were asking for this. This will be discussed after the summer recess. For this reason, an evaluation period was also included in the text. Furthermore, programming reform should result in a correct supply of all health and hospital services in our hospital landscape to the patient. Moreover, in order to maintain the quality of care for the patient as high as possible, it is necessary to avoid fragmentation of knowledge and skills. I have been asked what scientific studies I shall base myself on. This concerns several studies, which were also included in the recent report of the Knowledge Centre on the need for hospital capacity by 2025. That report also discussed an adequate supply of emergency services, trauma care and day surgery. We can also call on other studies from, among other things, the Knowledge Centre. The draft law aims to provide guarantees in the area of a transparent and well-founded process of supply control. Then there was the dentist case. Due to the new legal basis, it is now possible to delegate actions to a nurse or a paramedic. New healthcare professions will therefore be able to develop, which will be included in the new organisation of Royal Decree No. Seventy-eight, compulsive. We are moving forward with every reform. There is also a continuous dialogue between and with the administrations, the Cabinets and the colleagues of the regions in the programming process. The Inter-Ministerial Conference on Health, which serves as an example, is the most active one. Some people are worried about the encryption. I have explained in detail in committee what different encryptions are possible. I think that precisely through the New Attest data platform and by legally changing the encryption, maximum security is given.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u130	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u131	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2599/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2599/4) The draft law contains 57 articles. The bill has 57 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u132	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u133	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Deseyn and Mr Laaouej, rapporteurs, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u134	Mr President, it can be said that the opposition was particularly conciliatory in accepting that this issue should be dealt with, despite the difficulties mentioned above. It must be said that the Finance Committee has been working in recent weeks, as evidenced by the bottling of files, whose explanation is to be found in the delays taken by the government in their tabling and presentation to Parliament. I am thinking in particular of the bill to reform the prevention of money laundering, for which we have only had a few days to study hundreds of pages. I wanted to recall the context in which we are working. There are a number of aspects to this diverse tax bill, which I will not expand on or, in any case, which I will not go back to. However, we are particularly concerned about the confirmation of the royal decrees which provide for the non-indexation of tax reductions for replacement income, in particular pensions. This mechanism has been sought by the Government and is scheduled for four years. Its economic justification is hardly obvious, since the government's wage index jump, which was decided by the government, aimed – in government rhetoric – at improving wage competitiveness. I do not see that this argument can be replicated for replacement income. The only explanation is therefore of a budgetary nature. In this case, we lack figures on what this relates to the budget in terms of savings. I therefore went back to the inventory of tax expenditure. I found that, overall, the tax reductions for replacement revenues in 2014 were $4.5 billion, according to the latest available figures published on the Budget FPS website. This means that a non-indexing of these tax expenditures would theoretically bring in EUR million – but if the minister has other figures, I am quite prepared to hear it. In other words, it would be an annual savings of EUR 1 million. It's the third year, and it's still 2018. So we see what this relates to the federal budget. This economy is obviously not neutral for pensioners and other beneficiaries, as I said last time. For the basic tax reduction – you know that pensioners benefit from different tax reductions (basic or increased) – which is in the order of two thousand euros, a non-indexation represents an annual loss of forty euros. For the past three years, this represents one hundred and twenty euros. At the end of the legislature, provided that it lasts four years or that the government does not go beyond, that means one hundred and sixty euros. It's not nothing! This also means that of the total nonante million euros, this must be deducted from the so-called measures you are taking to improve the ordinary of pensioners, and in particular those who receive only a small pension. I would like to appeal once again to the government and the majority, not to maintain this provision in the bill, and to return to pensioners what you have taken from them. I say this all the more because pensioners are subject to a whole series of other decisions taken by the government. I am thinking of the increase in VAT on electricity, which is not offset by the tax shift or tax reductions, since the tax shift reductions do not concern replacement income, and therefore do not concern pensioners. On the other hand, this non-indexation of the tax reduction, which is particularly unfair, strikes all pensioners with full force. This is therefore totally unacceptable, and it goes a little unnoticed. In fact, it doesn't make headlines, and we don't talk about it very much. But this is one of the most brutal measures the government has taken towards people who are known to have difficult months to speak prosaically. So I'm just repeating what I've already said. I invite the government, and my colleagues on the CD&V, to review it. I imagine that the latter may have a particular sensitivity to pensioners, because they are experiencing situations that may attract their attention in one way or another. This government says it is in favour of tax reduction and claims to improve household incomes. It is important to realize that this measure is striking the disposable income of some households, particularly those with alternative income, such as pensioners. That is what I wanted to make clear, Mr President, in our debates. This is a purely budgetary measure, inexplicable from an economic point of view, and particularly unjust, because it affects a large part of this population, of which it is known that it is, in the vast majority, impoverished.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u135	Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking the members of the opposition for being able to deal with this draft in plenary. Thank you for that. This draft contains a number of issues which need to be adopted retroactively. Mr Laaouej, this is about the ratification of existing royal decisions. We know your views on the index jump, including in relation to social benefits. However, this is a logical consequence of a policy that the government has been pursuing for two years. You're bringing this back now. The Minister has clearly stated that this measure is not new and that it is only about the ratification of a Royal Decree that entered into force in 2015. It is important that non-indexation has been globally important for the competitiveness of our economy. We can turn that around or turn it around as we like, it has been one of the elements of the recovery of competitiveness. In part, non-indexation is also a budgetary measure. We must say it as it is: non-indexation has led to a number of savings. However, with the welfare envelope, the government has ensured that the lowest pensions have risen. There is one element missing from your reasoning. It is not blind non-indexation; it has clearly taken a step at the bottom of pensions with a real increase in pensions. In recent months there has been additional work on this. I am not on the Committee on Social Affairs, but I believe that one of the previous weeks a draft on the subject was discussed. This has not therefore led to the impoverishment of people with very low pensions. That is absolutely not true, quite the contrary.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u136	Mr President, Mr Van Rompuy, I do not understand what competitiveness is going to do in our exchange. You justified the index jump on wages through competitiveness, but here it is not about employees, but about pensioners. Pensioners first suffered an index jump. They have been subject to consumer tax increases – I mentioned the VAT on electricity – not offset by the reduction of personal tax since the tax shift was not aimed at them. In addition, for purely budgetary reasons, there is a non-indexing of tax reductions which, in fact, corresponds to a tax increase. In other words, these royal decrees, which are confirmed by law, increase the taxes on pensioners. In concrete terms, you are making use of pensioners and other beneficiaries for purely budgetary purposes. There's something you don't take care of. You're telling me these are royal decrees. Let us take advantage of this law to get the government to withdraw or reform them! Regardless of the legislative or regulatory arrangements that must be adopted to put an end to this anti-social and brutal policy towards pensioners. In committee, I talked about some kind of anti-pension obsession in the head of government. And you come back, each time, with the same arguments, and you invoke the budget envelope. I have just explained to you that what you spend with the budget envelope has already been planed, in any case, according to my calculations. If I'm wrong, that's good. You have to tell me! But I referred to the inventory of tax expenditures because I found no figures in the budget documents that we were given. I consider that you are taking at least €90 million from pensioners, which means that your welfare envelope for pensioners is already planed at €90 million. You are claiming a number of improvements that are immediately neutralized, destroyed – if I may say so – by measures taken at the tax level. Here's the pass trick. There is a policy of supposedly reclamation of the lowest pensions, etc. which, in reality, hides anti-social measures which are hidden in royal decrees of fiscal scope. It's that pass-by trick I'm denouncing. The only possibility for me to do this is in Parliament, because the royal decrees are taken at the level of the government. They are published; I do not disagree. But the only time we can have a parliamentary debate is at the time of the review of confirmatory bills. So you will not blame me, Mr Van Rompuy, for denouncing this way of doing things here, because it is in this place that it must be denounced.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u137	Mr President, I would agree with my colleague Mr. Van Rompuy, chairman of the Finance Committee, to point out that in the index jump, a correction was foreseen precisely for the lowest allowances and pensions. On the other hand, the welfare envelope has compensated well for this effect, contrary to what Mr Laaouej said. Mr Laaouej tries to drown the fish by comparing a monthly amount and a correction of VAT which only takes place on an annual expenditure. He is confusing us, but the corrections were made during the index jump to preserve the lowest pensions and the lowest allowances. And the welfare envelope has never been as high as it was during this legislature to compensate, precisely for the benefit of pensioners. To say that we have an obsession with pensions is a mistake.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u138	Mr Piedboeuf, you're messing with yourself! The mess is so much on your side that you do this by royal arrest. It's your choice. And then you get stuck when this happens in Parliament. The non-indexation of tax cuts, which I have just mentioned, does not make the difference between small pensions and large pensions, if there are large pensions. It's aimed at everyone. If you want to be consistent, bring us social corrections to this tax measure. This non-indexation applies to all pensions, whether low, medium or high. This is where your reasoning is inconsistent. I have no difficulty hearing from you and having a debate about how you can correct the index jump and neutralize it for the lowest income, especially replacement income. The fact is that, on this specific measure, you do not make a difference depending on the level of the pension.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u139	Compared to the amounts indicated by Mr Laaouej, $348 million was spent on the lowest pensions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u140	Intellectual crowds! Citizens should be entitled to both indexation and a welfare envelope. With the index jump, you take them part of their income that you only make up for imperfectly with the wellness envelope. Then stop! For the rest, I have never compared annual and monthly amounts! I referred here to a loss of 40 euros for pensioners because of the non-indexation of tax reductions. I mentioned the quantifiable loss of EUR 300 for average electricity consumption due to the increase in VAT on electricity, to which must be added the index jump. I do not compare annual and monthly amounts. I'm making an annual comparison. I therefore do not understand very well the reasoning from this point of view.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u141	To confirm what my excellent colleague said, I was one of those who negotiated the wellness envelope and its very existence. There was an indexing as for the workers and to be, in a way, in line with the wage increases made during the interprofessional agreements, this welfare envelope had been created, if not a much too large drop-out between the level of wages and that of social benefits was proven and that is what you no longer respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u142	And what did the wellness envelope do during this legislature? She's only increased!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u143	Don't lose sight, Mr. Piedboeuf, that index jumping has a cumulative effect! And that fact, you always lose sight of him. Never lose sight of that!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u144	I will not repeat Mr. Van Rompuy and Mr Piedboeuf with whom I agree. Mr Laaouej, you are talking about about 90 million, but Mr Piedboeuf's figure is also correct. We made corrections for 340 million. There is still a difference between these two amounts!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u145	Do you realize, minister, that the jump in index, just on wages, amounts to 2 to 2.5 billion a year in accumulation? At the end of the legislature, you will be almost 10 billion punctures on the payroll. The amounts you are quoting - I am talking about wages and the same reasoning can be made about the overall amount of pensions - this will never compensate for what you have taken from people through the jump of the index. So you're offsetting by personal tax reductions, but on the other hand, you've increased taxes on consumption. In total, people don't find themselves there, minister. I'd like to do the calculations with you. Moreover, I proposed in the Finance Committee that we have a table of + and - at both the tax and social levels. When I say the social field, that's all it encompasses, including the increase in the price of medicines, etc. Make a real scoreboard of increasing disposable income in a nuanced manner. I do not want to relaunch the debate on disposable income. We've discussed it enough. It is not known today what is related to income from labour and income from capital. On the other hand - and here I am addressing Mr. Van Rompuy because it's always the same argument - it's not because you have a proportional increase in disposable income that gives you an indication of the distribution of this increase in disposable income, depending on the income brackets! Indeed, this is where the debate is: whether inequalities have progressed or been reduced under your government. This can only be done by means of a rigorous numerical comparison. This debate, we do not have it!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u146	Yes, Mr. Laaouej, but we don't always have to talk about non-indexing, it's actually about tax reductions. Yes! We cut taxes. This fact does not require discussion. This measure increases disposable income. While no index was indexed because, in the context of the government's consolidation, it was this path that it preferred, the final result was an increase in real disposable income. I've seen the latest figures. The National Bank's spring forecasts predict that real disposable income, household income, will increase by 2% in 2018 and 2019. That's huge. The modal pensioner will also have a real increase. We are talking about tax reductions. We will not have the debate again, but the tax shift is mainly aimed at low wages and pensioners. Three-quarters go to low wages. Your reasoning is not correct. You're an excellent collégue. I do not dispute that, Mrs Onkelinx: Mr Laaouej is one of the best economists in this House. But he doesn't have the right figures in this area. The figures you are using, Mr Laaouej... you can, of course, dispute the figures of the National Bank, as well as the calculations of the effect of the tax shift on the various levels of pay, but here you are unfortunately wrong.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u147	Mr President, I confirm the excellence of our colleague. I attribute to fatigue the fact that it starts by criticizing our "obsession of weakening pensions" to come to talk about the overall effect of index jumps on employees. He mixes everything in a soup. Since I think he's tired, I won't go any further.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u148	Mr President, two elements. First, the majority invokes disposable income all the time. Mr. Van Rompuy just did it. But disposable income includes different types of income: working income and capital income. As we are telling you, you keep repeating "disposable income, disposable income, disposable income". You won't have to repeat that you'll be right. The reality is that, of the total national income, the share of capital income has increased sharply and the share of labour income has decreased. Under this legislature, 5% of GDP passed from the pockets of workers to the caisses des entreprises. Labour income declined in terms of output wealth and overall income. These 5% of GDP are billions of euros that have moved from income from work to income from capital. It's one thing. Second, on this non-indexation of tax reductions for pensioners, you make a tax shift. You say, "Here's the tax shift. You're going to pay more taxes, more VAT, more excise duties, but on the other hand, you're going to pay less taxes on natural persons." Except that pensioners pay much more VAT and excise duty, but they do not benefit from a reduction to the PPI. The majority argued that, since they were not assets, they were not entitled to them. They are pensioners, they have worked their whole lives, but since they are no longer active, they are no longer entitled to them. That's your logic! Pensioners are aggrieved by your policy. There is no other conclusion to be drawn from this measure.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u149	Mr Piedboeuf, it was not fatigue that led me to talk about the employees. It is because it is your colleagues in the majority who, themselves, have referred to the tax shift to try to drown the fish. But even when you do this, we manage to confuse your approximations with your inconsistencies. Mijnheer Van Rompuy, on disposable income, first, take inflation into account. Next, the macro-economic increase in disposable income does not tell you anything about the distribution of the increase in disposable income between income classes. That is the real problem! This is where we must try to determine whether or not inequalities have increased, in particular by mobilising the Gini coefficient and other indicators. These indicators exist. The National Bank or the Plan Office could be asked to refine the figures. To keep in mind the problem of pensioners, what we are saying is that the reduction in income tax, which you are referring to as a good thing, was mostly about assets. This means that pensioners do not withdraw what you claim from the income tax reform but, on the other hand, they are subject to the non-indexing of tax reductions on replacement income. I never said anything else. That's all I've been talking about! This represents a mass of 4.5 billion replacement income. In other words, the basis for calculating the non-indexation of tax reductions is $4.5 billion. Can you imagine? I would even say more: we should see the distribution of the loss of earnings among pensioners, taking into account also the different levels of pensions, depending on whether they are low, medium or larger. I am convinced that this non-indexing of tax cuts creates inequalities within pensioners. That's what you don't want to hear! Now you are trying to defend yourself as you can, but I am telling you that this measure is only justified for budgetary reasons, and I call on the government to step up. I don't see why it should be kept in your budget. Go find the money somewhere else!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u150	Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to ask the reasonableness of everyone to come back to draft No. 2488 financial and fiscal provisions. Why? Because 80% of what is said here has nothing to do with what is in this law. It is a perseverance of a royal decree. We have had the decisions and the debate on this matter several years ago. It's not about anything new. It's about the perseverance of a certain royal decree. I have no problem with each group making its point, but I would like to ask my fellow Members to reason with this draft. We are not settling this discussion today. We only uphold a royal decision. The debate on this issue has already been fully conducted in the past. I would nevertheless like to come to the correctness of the debate in this hemisphere. Please let us return to the essence of the matter. That doesn't change the fact that everyone makes their point. Mr Laaouej will always defend pensioners. He does that brilliantly, but that has nothing to do with this point.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u151	Mr President, all I was talking about was form. The government takes many tax measures by royal decrees, for example when it ebbs on reduced VAT rates or the non-indexation of tax reductions. The only time we can talk about it is when there's a law of confirmation. If we are prevented from having a debate when there is a confirmation law, when can we talk about it? I challenge Mr. Van Biesen to find me a committee report where we were able to talk about it before the confirmation bills arrived. This was not even in the budget, it came later.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u152	Mr Laaouej, I believe that no one, including Mr Van Biesen, is preventing the debate from taking place. It is about the ratification of royal decrees. Mr Laaouej, we have discussed this many times. Of course, it does not do your party any good that the families under the current government see the available family income rise by 2%. CD&V was also part of the Di Rupo government, but in 2013 the real disposable income in our country decreased by minus 0.2 %, while in 2018 and 2019 it rose by 2 %. For the decrease in 2013 we bear the responsibility, but you must admit that the available income is rising. Employment is also rising, but you also dispute that. I have always said that the tax shift has not been financed and I have my opinion on the budgetary evolution. However, when it comes to disposable income and rising employment, you simply cannot admit that the current situation is much better than it was four to five years ago. Fortunately, employment and purchasing power are increasing. Now acknowledge that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u153	Buying power?!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u154	Mrs Temmerman, you always dispute that, but it is the facts.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u155	Van Rompuy, when the Di Rupo government took office – your party and the MR were part of the team – we had to deal with the consequences of the financial crisis Lehman Brothers and subprimes. This has led our country to growth rates of 0%, just like the euro area as a whole. There is a basic principle on increasing disposable income: there is an elasticity between disposable income and the growth rate. It's very easy to understand. There is economic growth, there is compensation for factors of production, including the labour factor, and disposable income increases mechanically. Today, there is still some growth – less than the euro area average and this is one of your government's failures – and so there is a mechanical increase in disposable income. The argument of income distribution of capital/work income must lead to a nuance of your excess enthusiasm. In addition, you cannot tell us what the distribution between income classes is. In addition, you have to consider the fact that once people have their income, they are faced with expenses. Among these expenditures, there are social expenditures whose cost has been increased as a result of your government policy. We must take everything into consideration! So far, we have not had this debate in the Finance Committee. Mr. President, I'm not going to epilogue. It's only a royal decree. MM. Flahaux and Piedboeuf are happy but I'm not convinced by your arguments.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u156	Mr President, I will be very brief. Mr Van Rompuy, with the Di Rupo government, we were on average always above the European average, both in terms of growth and job creation. Before everything, we were on average above it. Now we are on average below the European average for everything. Why is that? I am not denying the figures that were mentioned at all. However, as many economists say, these figures are due to the current general economic boom. That has nothing to do with this government, on the contrary, a number of things could be much better. There is indeed a job growth, but it is there despite and not thanks to this government.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u157	I certainly do not want to question Mrs Temmerman's economic insights. In the reports of the National Bank, OECD and the IMF, with a nuance here and there, I read that this government's policy on employment, structural health and the economy is delivering very clearly. As far as the tax shift is concerned, I would like to reiterate to Mr Laaouej once again that three quarters of the four billion tax cuts that have already been made have gone to the lowest wages. This will have had a positive effect on the distribution of income in any case. If real disposable income increases and if an extra allowance goes to the lowest income via the tax shift, it has a positive effect on income distribution. There's no other way. I referred here earlier this afternoon to the Oxfam report a few days ago, which makes it clear that Belgium is one of the world's absolute top in terms of redistribution. This is not only the merit of this government, it seems to be a tradition. The argument that government policy hasn't taught anything and just thrives on the tide of our environment, I fundamentally disagree, and with me quite a few specialists.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u158	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u159	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2488/7) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2488/7) The title was changed by the Committee to "draft legislation on various financial and fiscal provisions and on measures relating to concessions." The title has been amended by the committee in "Bill on various financial and fiscal provisions and measures relating to concession contracts". The draft law contains 57 articles. The bill has 57 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u160	****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment that has been tabled, the article that has been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u161	Sustained: the vote on the amendment and Rule 55. Article adopted by article: Articles 1 to 54, 56 and 57.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u162	******
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u163	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 2611: Francis Delpérée, Meryame Kitrir, Peter De Roover, Denis Ducarme, Servais Verherstraeten, Patrick Dewael - 1712: Stefaan Van Hecke, Gilles Vanden Burre, Jean-Marc Nollet, Marcel Cheron, Muriel Gerkens, Anne Dedry, Evita Willaert - 1713: Hans Bonte - 1741: Catherine Fonck, Christian Brotcorne, Georges Dallemagne - 2047: Catherine Fonck, Benoît Lutgen, Vanessa Matz, Georges Dallemagne, Benoît Dispa, Isabelle Poncelet, Michel de Lamotte - 2132: Olivier Maingain, Véronique Caprasse.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u164	Pursuant to Rule 85 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, the text adopted by the committee is taken as the basis for discussion of the sole Rule. (2611/4) In accordance with Rule 85(4) of the Rules of Procedure, the text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for the discussion of the single rule. (2611/4) The discussion of the single article has been opened. The discussion of the single article is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u165	Mr President, in agreement with the co-rapporteur Mrs Onkelinx, we refer to our written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u166	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, all the articles in our Constitution have the same value: the value of the Constitution. There are no different layers. There are no supra-constitutional provisions, constitutional provisions, sub-constitutional provisions. All provisions have the same value. This is why they are modified according to the same procedures and with the same majorities. Nevertheless, articles of the Constitution have a political value – I was going to say a philosophical value – more important than others. And article 12 of the Constitution is certainly one of those. It's one of the temple columns. This is the rule of habeas corpus, of habeas corpus ad sus subjiciendum as the old authors said. I translate for those who have lost their Latin: keep your body before presenting it to a judge. I also give you a more literary, more modern translation: keep your freedom, enjoy freedom until a judge decides to deprive you of it. This is the fundamental guarantee enshrined in article 12 of the Constitution. This is what the English Parliament had established in 1679. This is the condemnation of the letter of stamp to the French which allowed to embalm the importuns. This is the judicial judge who is established as the protector of our freedoms and, in the first place, of the most essential of them: physical freedom, freedom to come and go, freedom of movement. If this freedom does not exist, what other people serve, such as freedom of education, freedom of worship, freedom of the press, etc.- Is that what you're saying? Obviously, there is a difficulty. A person is suspected of having committed a particular offence. An investigation is under way. For the purposes of the investigation, this person must remain in premises and remain at the disposal of the police and the prosecutor's office. This is where the Belgian Constitution came in by saying that the period when the person is arrested in the first sense of the term, when he or she is deprived of that freedom, this period can last only a limited period of time. This time must be calculated as accurately as possible. It cannot be extended. As we say in the football language, no prolongation and no play stop.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u167	Twenty-four hours, not another minute, says the Constitution of 1831. Article 12 has remained unchanged on this point, over this specific period, since then. The doctrine confirms this view, the jurisprudence applies it in an infinite number of concrete cases. Twenty-four hours, maybe it's a little short. Except for the one who is deprived of his liberty. Two difficulties have arisen in recent years: legal difficulty and factual difficulty. The legal difficulty arose from the jurisprudence of the European Court of Human Rights, traditionally called the Salduz case law. From the outset of the preliminary investigation, the suspect must be assisted by a lawyer, possibly by an interpreter. If it is not possible to reach them quickly, the investigation work can be hampered and the 24-hour delay may be quickly exceeded. An article 15bis was introduced in 2011 in the law of 20 July 1990 on pre-trial detention, but it seems to have been only a mistake. The declaration of 25 April 2014, declaration of revision of the Constitution, envisaged the revision of paragraph 3 of Article 12, and not the other paragraphs, I quote: "in order to respect European case law with regard to the assistance of a lawyer from the first hearing". The reference to Salduz is obvious. The factual difficulty arose from investigations related to the suppression of terrorist offences. The alleged perpetrators are most often part of networks with international ramifications. They use the latest information, communication techniques. They speak in foreign languages or in coded languages. Progress and gathering the first clues may require additional time. It was in order to meet this twofold difficulty that, in line with the revision declaration of 25 April 2014, it seemed useful to replace the 24-hour deadline with the 48-hour deadline. The terminus a quo, as the lawyers say, is the starting point, it is the factual deprivation of liberty and the terminus ad quem, it is the point of arrival, it is the judicial deprivation of liberty by a reasoned order of a judge who pronounces the declaration of pre-trial detention. Between the two terminals, forty-eight hours ago, not another minute. That is the reform to which I had the pleasure of bringing my pen and voice, and I am still expressing it today. It seems to me that on the eve of the National Day, it should be possible to gather a very large majority on a consensus text in the House of Representatives. It will then be possible to ensure effective protection of human rights and, at the same time, to allow for the continuation of preliminary investigations into the issue of arrest warrants. I believe that by voting on this text we will remain faithful to the thinking of the founding fathers of our State, but we will also update the concern for freedom that they rightly highlighted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u168	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is not long since we had a similar discussion here. An attempt has been made to amend Article 12, third paragraph, of the Constitution in the sense that the deadline would be extended to 48 hours plus 24, specifically for terrorist issues. It is still our belief that this was a solution that met the sighs of an important group that would have to work with these rules on the ground but, of course, without any obligation in it, which was also said last time. On the contrary, after 48 hours there would be a judicial test. You know the result of that attempt. It has not reached the required two-thirds majority. It is our conviction, however, that this effort should be made, in the hope that we would be able to convince a number of colleagues. From the moment we established that political fact, we naturally fell back on the current constitutional rules. The previous speaker pointed out that although Article 12 does not have a legal weight greater than the other articles, if one reads 'the freedom of the person is guaranteed' and in paragraph 2 'no one can be prosecuted than in the cases provided for by the law and in the form prescribed by it', then we are indeed at the heart of what is supposed to be a rule of law. After all, we have decided to transfer the monopoly of violence and not to act ourselves if we believe that a certain injustice is being committed, but it is quite obvious that those who receive that monopoly of violence must deal with it in a very regulated manner. That is also the constitutional purpose of Article 12, first and second paragraphs. The third paragraph, which we are talking about today, has put that number at 24 hours since the Constitution was drawn up. This has never changed. Compared to abroad, today we are in the rear of the peloton of the countries that apply such rules. We have seen in the hearings in committee that these 24 hours today are absolutely inadequate for various reasons. It has appeared that there was virtually a consensus in the hearings, which may have had an impact on thinking in the political world, as everyone has gradually been able to agree with that consensus, so to speak, as a minimum adjustment of the current constitutional regime. We have had extensive debates on this in committee and the vote has shown that there is virtually unanimity. I hope to be able to establish this unanimity in this House today. That is a good thing, because that 24 hours is a real obstacle. The hearings have shown that, in order to make it 48 hours, Article 15a requires a complex regulation. These 24 hours are mainly an obstacle in the more complex dossiers, which are likely to attract the greatest social attention. I assume that, as has been pointed out this morning, some of my fellow Members will be asking in their speech why all this had to be done so quickly. Other fellow Members will point out that this has just taken a very long time. It has taken a very long time for the reasons I indicated: other attempts have been made and they have failed. I dare say that the Constitution would be changed here, but I am afraid to contradict it. Discussions first took place in the Temporary Committee on Combating Terrorism and then in the Committee on the Revision of the Constitution. The new texts before us have been discussed at a very high legal level, and Mr Van Hecke, Mr Delpérée and Mr Geens have looked very closely at them. It cannot therefore be claimed that there has been no serious work. It makes no sense, however, if we have discussed for a very long time the 72 hours while there is a near-unanimity over the 48 hours, not to tighten them up as quickly as possible into what the new Constitution will become. Of course, our group is going to approve it. I want to afford a point. In the old Article 12, as a non-lawyer, we are perhaps more surprised about this than as a lawyer. I read: "None can be apprehended except by a reasoned order from the court, which must be served on the arrest or within 24 hours at the latest." That will probably be the economist rather than the lawyer who says: have I understood that someone should be arrested by doing something 24 hours after the arrest? The Minister raised a number of concerns in the committee, inter alia, that the word "detention" may include several matters, both what happens in the intervention of the prosecutor or what happens in the intervention of the investigating judge. That was not the intention of this whole operation, but as a pleasant side-effect of the reform we are undertaking today, we can take a first step here in clearing that terminological uncertainty. That is why this text refers to the arrest when an investigating judge says that the person concerned may be deprived of liberty for longer. It has now been explicitly ensured that the word "sustainable' is not used in that dual sense or twice in that sense. The Minister has also announced this, and I assume that he will be speaking on behalf of the government in a moment's time. The additional advantage of this amendment of the Constitution is that it is an interesting first step to overcome this terminological confusion, which seems to have existed for 187 years. That will require some legal intervention, as our legislation is crawling with those terms. I would like to thank all those who have contributed to this text, particularly Mr Delpérée, and also in the drafting of the amendment that was adopted in committee, who have been very careful not to repeat this historical confusion, and that seems to me to be very sensible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u169	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if there is one area where we must try to work hand in hand, it is that of the security of our country. There is no fear of a population who sees, here and there, that the terrorist risk is ubiquitous. We don't mess with the violence of those who expose us to attacks, suffering, loss of life. That is why, in many commissions, including the Terrorist Attacks Commission, we have reached strong consensus to modernize our response capacity, both in intelligence and in the security services. The right to security must be guaranteed. It is an important obligation of means. New operational tools need to be developed. This right to security must be combined with other fundamental rights and freedoms, such as the right to respect for individual freedom, without which we would no longer be in a democracy. The combination of these different imperatives is sometimes delicate, as we know. This is the case with police custody. Well calibrated, it can allow for the collection of prosecution and exculpatory evidence that allows the justice to do its job. But ill-calibrated, it is authoritarian drift that can flout the presumption of innocence. In this delicate exercise, I think it is necessary to listen to professionals (magistrates, police, lawyers, etc.) who are so often confronted with the problem. That is what we did not do in committee. Let us not be mistaken, this extension of police custody is certainly not the decisive weapon in the fight against terrorism. You lie when you say things like that. It is only one instrument among others. On the other hand, many professionals have told us, she carries with her a share of risk. That's why our choice had to be insightful. The old project, with your famous 48 and 72 hours, obviously went against the balance between security and freedom, and also against efficiency. I remember these French- and Dutch-speaking investigating judges repeating that it was not what they wanted, for example, to differentiate between police custody periods according to the nature of the offences, which would give rise to an unthinkable imbroglio, with procedural errors that some accused would use. They said that too long a delay was also not desirable in the light of the presumption of innocence, and that, in addition, it would simply delay the time when the investigating judge could seize the case. This was not voted, but you really wasted us a lot of time just taking a position from RoboCop. I don't think it was very smart. Anyway, we're on a new project. Is it perfect? No. First, the writing of the constitutional provision leaves something to be desired. I don't know who in this assembly or in a cabinet, took the pen, but it's a little "fuck!" A little correction was made in the commission because a judge had to intervene within 48 hours, but when? Nothing was written. We fixed it. The Chamber's technical services tell us: "You may not have taken the right course. Should we talk about deprivation of liberty from the moment of arrest?" At least we have a 48-hour departure moment, which was not included in the original version. Secondly, I am always surprised that it is said: "before the intervention of a judge who is going to put in pre-trial detention". As we know, the investigating judge has other tools. That is why I find this formulation of the constitutional system strange. Finally, and I come to the most important point, we do not respond to the request of our specialists, who, unlike us, face this type of business on a daily basis. Our investigating judges are tired of the fact that the case is sent to them one hour before the expiry of the individual indictment period. They all asked us what it was for to invite investigating judges if it was to make no case. That's not right! They showed us records up to tens of centimetres high, which they had to examine in record time. It's not serious if you want to do a good job on your own and on your own. The ideal would therefore have been to provide for a minimum period of time for these investigating judges, which we need so much so that they can deepen their work. You despised their suggestions and strangely refused a real dialogue on this subject. I have also noticed in committee your fear of correcting, even at the margin, the proposed text. I don't understand why. We could have worked a few more hours, satisfied the request for an extension of the period of police custody and, at the same time, helped our investigating judges who asked us to respond present as to their concern about the delay in examining the file. This is our reality today. We will resubmit an amendment even if I suspect that it will be wiped out with a back of my hand. Whatever! This is our message to the investigating judges: "We tried to help you, the majority refused it." A member of our group will refrain from denouncing what I consider to be a contempt for professionals who take risks on a daily basis. For the rest, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote in favour of the proposed text. Please note that we are pleased that consensus has been reached, thus harmoniously closing our parliamentary session.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u170	Mr President, the action we are about to take is crucial to our security arrangements. The debate on the extension of the maximum period of police custody is not new, let us recall! In the aftermath of the Paris attacks, the Prime Minister expressed to the House his wish to see Parliament extend the constitutional ceiling on the duration of police custody. In the Temporary Committee on Terrorism, we listened to the professionals at length. Several actors stressed the importance of an extension of even up to 72 hours. Mr Fontaine, the Director General of the Judicial Police, Messrs. Snoek and Mathieu, of the PJFs of Brussels and Liège, the Attorney General Delmulle, who spoke on behalf of the College of Attorneys General, and the Federal Prosecutor voted in favour of 72 hours. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u171	The federal prosecutor has taken a stand in favour of 72 hours! I don't know where you were, but if necessary, I can refer to the report. We indicate this because we listened carefully to professionals and actors. If we take him back to plenary today, it is obviously because that has been the case. We listened to the professionals. The findings of these actors were...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u172	Mr Ducrame, I cannot let you say such ineptitudes. You're referring to the report. I have the report. I will allow myself to reread what Mr. Frédéric Van Leeuw, the federal prosecutor, told us: "The practice therefore teaches that a general period of 48 hours of police custody would be such as to combine the imperatives of the investigation with respect for individual rights. While terrorism could be regarded as an exceptional phenomenon, it was personally important that it should not be combated with exceptional laws. Aiming at terrorism alone seems to constitute a precedent that could be dangerous, while other matters justify in the same way the need, in some cases, to extend police custody." These are exactly the terms of Mr. Frédéric Van Leeuw, Federal Attorney. Mr. Ducrame, stop saying lies!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u173	Coming from someone who did not sit on the Attentats Commission, it is quite remarkable. I remember the words "inepties" and "mensonges". I'm not going to keep meggling with a socialist party in shreds. I will simply refer to the Speaker of the House the excerpts from the report which indicated that the federal prosecutor had taken an open position on an extension of police custody to 72 hours with respect to terrorist offences. We'll judge on pieces. You probably selected an excerpt from the report. However, it has long been established in practice that this position has been taken. I shall refer the matter back to the report. You can keep talking about lies or inepties if you're excited, I'll stop there on this subject. The findings of all the actors were extremely clear. The reality of the Salduz reform requires the presence of a lawyer and, at the request of the suspect, an interpreter as soon as the first interrogation takes place. At the terrorist level, we must take into account the increasing complexity of investigations. Technically too, the use of encrypted data complicates the day-to-day work of our services. In the case of terrorist cases, investigators have in practice only eight to ten hours to conduct interrogations in the context of police custody. It is, of course, far too little to achieve optimal efficiency. The Socialist Party has come back to listening to professionals. The problem of some in the PS in this area is that, as far as investigating judges are concerned, for example, they decide to listen to those who are in their direction. I refer again to the report and I will communicate the acts of it: not all the investigating judges were behind the Socialist Party, as it gives the impression when it speaks on this subject. So, Mr. Van Linthout, at his hearing in committee of inquiry Attentats on 12 December 2016, – I refer you to the report, Mr Crusnière – also expressed support for extending the maximum period of police custody to 48 hours for ordinary offences and 72 hours for terrorist cases. It is not correct to state that all the investigating judges would have decided in one direction. Moreover, they did not express their views on the status quo. The judge we received in the Attentats Committee is not the last to come and it has been very clear about its opening and about the fact that it could also live with an extension of police custody to 72 hours for terrorist cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u174	Mr President, it is a real shame that, in a quality debate on the balance between the right to security and individual freedoms, each time, Mr Ducrame, who was very little present in committee when we were talking about terrorism but who knows how to do the smart thing at times when he may have a certain echo, comes, in a way, to dirty this very beautiful debate by politicizing the situation foolishly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u175	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u176	When Mr Ducrame said that not all investigating judges followed the Socialist Party, what was that, what was that as an intervention? That's bullshit! The Socialist Party has tried to listen to professionals, all of them: magistrates, investigating judges, judges at the Court of Cassation, prosecutors, lawyers, the League of Human Rights, and we have removed from hearings the elements we have used to fuel the debate. This is normally parliamentary work, Mr. Ducrame. It is not intelligent, let me say, to lower the quality of the debate with small political games that have nothing to do with the objective of a constitutional change which is aimed, in particular, at providing additional weapons in the fight against terrorism and where we have an interest, being as many as possible, the majority and the opposition combined, in working together.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u177	We will allow Mr. Ducarme to continue his intervention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u178	"Ineptie," "mense," "salir!" Who's ruining the debate, Mrs. Onkelinx?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u179	Let's try to move on!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u180	Who's messing with the debate? With your radical behavior, do you think this will help you? Have you not understood, Mrs Onkelinx, that what has been weighing on the Socialist Party for a number of years is your behaviour?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u181	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u182	A behavior of boundless aggression! Mrs Onkelinx, that too, the Socialist Party is paying for it! How high are you? You weigh on yours the failure of your tonalities.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u183	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u184	Mr. Ducrame, I'd like to keep his calm.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u185	I don't have a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u186	I know you don't have a problem. No one has a problem; neither do I, except I think that at times we have to think about the image we give of Parliament. And that's it!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u187	I guess you're talking to yourself...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u188	Mr. Ducrame, I barely said anything that you are attacking me! I'm not attacking anyone!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u189	I'm not assaulting you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u190	You don't even realize it! I ask you to continue your remarks and not to talk about anything else!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u191	If we want to heighten the debate, there is an aggressive tone that we avoid using, contrary to what Mr Crusnière and Mrs Onkelinx have done. I can restate the debate very calmly to tell you, Mrs Onkelinx, that the Socialist Party has very often, during the debates on the extension of police custody, said: "The investigating judges tell us". No, Mrs. Onkelinx! What I wanted to do was to nuance your remarks and point out that all the investigating judges were not on the same wavelength as you were willing to expose on many occasions. You must also accept that it can be said that no, such an investigating judge did not pronounce himself that way. The one we received in the Terrorist Attacks Committee told us that he was in favour of an extension of up to 72 hours for police custody. These are the elements and I refer to the report. These are simply elements of debate that can occur while seeing everyone remain, it seems to me, in the necessary correction, which, unfortunately, you do not always do. As liberal reformers, on the issue of the extension of police custody, we have said and repeated: we obviously want and still want a reform that guarantees a balance between security and freedoms. In doing so, a maximum duration of 72 hours seemed to us and we still seem to be responding to this balance. It is, of course, sufficient to see a number of neighbouring countries, which are States governed by the rule of law, which guarantee the balance between freedoms and security and which have put in place systems of police custody which sometimes go far beyond the text we are discussing today. I am thinking of France, Italy, the United Kingdom and Spain, which have a period of custody equal to or greater than 72 hours. On 15 June, the majority, together with the CDH who had joined us, put on the table a proposal which allowed, on the one hand, to extend the period of police custody from 24 hours to 48 hours for all offences and, on the other hand, explicitly limit the extension to 72 hours only to terrorist offences. Therefore, it was a perfectly pragmatic response which was perfectly intended to listen to the actors, in order to respond, in fact, to the concrete needs of the actors on the ground, while naturally ensuring, respecting and defending this balance between freedom and security. Let's remember that we only missed a few voices to get the 72 hours. But we remain perfectly pragmatic because it was not allowed to stay there. Why? Because the terrorist threat remains what it is, namely, level 3. There is no need to recall the missed attack at Brussels Central Station, the Kamikaze Riders files. The threat remains here. It remains possible and likely, as indicated in the OCAM terminology. That is why we were quick to reintroduce a new proposal on the extension of police custody. A compromise could be reached beyond the majority. Thus, with the CDH, sp.a., we propose an extension of the constitutional limit of custody to 48 hours, for all offences. Since we are telling the truth tonight, we have developed a pragmatic proposal. As I said, it doesn't fit our ideal. But we have to move forward. In doing so, the majority advanced with sp.a and cdH and not the others, as it was not possible to join the PS, as it was not possible to join Ecolo-Groen. Indeed, what is the reality? The PS and Ecolo proposed a system of 24+24 that fundamentally did not change the realities of today, which did not listen to actors and professionals on the ground. We were therefore unable, when we would have wished, in a debate such as this, to see all the political groups unite and listen to the needs of the ground which demanded at least 48 hours, which was not in the socialist proposal. We have therefore put this proposal on the table. Nor, unfortunately, could we agree with this proposal by DéFI, which envisaged an intervention by the investigating judge every twelve hours. And since we are talking about investigating judges, I can quote others, such as Mrs Panou, who is an investigating judge in charge of the Brussels part of the attacks in Paris. In an interview in January 2016, she tells us that they cannot be satisfied with the status quo. We have therefore not been able to support the amendments proposed by the Socialists, the Greens and the DeFIs in the debate we have conducted in committee. Indeed, it was a status quo, or worse. That is the reality, and the reason why we are putting forward a proposal. Good if the PS joins her. Good if you have changed your mind, Mrs. Onkelinx, with respect to your basic proposal. You are right, it is useful that we gather together as much as possible, beyond the majority-opposition divides, on an issue as important as this one. We were also opened in committee, and you will remember that, Mr Crusnière. We did not find that responding positively to a technical amendment that you proposed was inept. Mrs Onkelinx, you go up to the gallery and you tell us that we did not want to hear anything during the debate in committee. Again, that's not true. I myself signed an amendment tabled by Mr Crusnière and the opposition. No, the majority hasn't been closed. No, the groups with which we have gathered around these proposals have not been foolishly closed to discussion, either with the PS or with others. We have signed the amendment which Mr Crusnière, very kindly, asked us to support last week in committee. For the sake of consistency, this constitutional reform will naturally be accompanied by the repeal of Article 15bis of the Law of 20 July 1990 on preventive detention. According to the representatives of the investigating judges, this article, which was very rarely applied, nevertheless allowed, doubtless only in theory, to extend the deprivation of liberty for an additional 24 hours. We will finally be able to turn this page, hoping that as many groups as possible will join this essential decision for our security system. Field needs must be met, particularly in investigations that require a minimum of time to be complete and effective. Investigative judges and the judiciary must be given the opportunity not to let suspects go. I hope no one hides behind a rejection or even an abstention. This reform, carried out by the Prime Minister and desired by the government and the majority, this reform that we want today with the CDH and sp.a is essential for the work of our services. We will give it to them and respond to their needs on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u192	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, rights and freedoms are essential in a rule of law. Freedom robbery is a tough decision, incorporated into our Constitution. A revision of the Constitution is a major issue, and we must not treat it lightly. Neither do we. The Constitution is not a piece of paper. That is why we have spoken with experts and specialists over the past few weeks and months. These discussions have shown that due to the increasing complexity of certain criminal investigations, in particular terrorist investigations, it is only logical that more and more time is needed to analyse and confirm the information and clues collected. Remember that our work began in response to the attacks in Paris and the inflamed attacks in our country. We want to give policemen, researchers and magistrates the time they need to carry out their work properly. Following the attacks on 22 March, the Committee of Inquiry stressed the need for greater cooperation between security services and public authorities, and for the exchange of information collected at national and international level, so that we can work with it. It is clear that a 48-hour period offers much more opportunity and space to clarify and verify certain matters than the current 24 hours. I would like to comment briefly on the tenor of terrorism. It is clear that investigations in the fight against terrorism are often more complex, with many suspects and branches abroad. In the interests of our fight against terrorism and serious crime in general, sufficient time should be allocated to the investigations. We cannot afford any mistakes in these matters; The hearings in the Temporary Committee on Counter-Terrorism showed that an extension of the arrest period to 48 hours is not unreasonable. Among other things, the investigators, the federal prosecutor, the College of Attorneys General, the federal judicial police and a number of professors spoke favourably about this. It was, of course, noted that our country is one of the last Member States of the European Union to have a 24-hour deadline. I believe that with this amendment of the constitution, we are also joining the rest of Europe. On the basis of the various debates, both in the Temporary Committee on Terrorism and in the Committee on the Revision of the Constitution, I believe that we have finally been able to put forward a good proposal which strikes a good balance between the needs of research, public security and fundamental rights and freedoms in our country. I would like to make two comments which are often cited by critics. Forty-eight hours is a maximum time limit. This means that in theory, but also in practice, the suspect can be released before the 48-hour deadline expires. The fact that we are here tonight deciding to raise the deadline to 48 hours does not mean that a suspect will be detained for 48 hours in any investigation. Furthermore, the extension of the time limit for arrest may also be in the interest of the suspect. More investigative acts can then be carried out. If these investigations show that the person concerned has nothing to do with the issue, he can of course be released. This will avoid unnecessary suspicion of the suspect. You all know that a suspicion has a much greater impact on the social life of the person concerned. I would also like to point out that the Committee P confirmed at the hearings that the 48-hour deadline might lead to fewer arrest mandates. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with this important constitutional change, we are not taking a step towards a police state or anything. We are in favour of a rule of law which guarantees the security of citizens, on the one hand, and respect for freedom, on the other. I therefore call on the majority and the opposition to support this proposal. We are deciding this evening on an important update of our Constitution, in order to improve our security of tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u193	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I shall confine myself to the essentials, not because an amendment to the Constitution would be unimportant, but because we have had many discussions in committee during repeated debates. Such exchanges of views are, in my view, necessary, because the amendment of such a fundamental article of the Constitution really must be considered and well thought out. It concerns the amendment of only one article of the Constitution, but in relation to its short text, the debates and the flowing ink do indeed underline the importance of that article. For my group, fundamental rights and freedoms, as they are included in our Constitution, are really very special and important. I cannot stress that enough. The freedom of person, in the system of fundamental rights, is perhaps the most fundamental. This means that no one can be deprived of his or her freedom, unless under very strict conditions, laid down in the law. This also requires a person to appear before an independent judge as soon as possible, who acts and decides whether a person can be deprived of his or her freedom in the context of remand, as we call it. It is indeed not excluded, given the investigation in criminal matters, that a person is being deprived of his freedom for a longer period of time, but this can only be done in order to guarantee public security and where there are serious indications of guilt regarding very serious crimes, which are also provided for in the law. The final deadline for that pre-trial detention was set at 24 hours and that period is as old as our nation itself. Today, for the first time, we will change that deadline. That thought alone is indeed impressive, at least that is what I think. It was absolutely not easy to find consensus. However, we have listened to what the actors are doing on the ground. Everyone we have heard has, in my opinion, made the balance between, on the one hand, the freedom of the individual and, on the other hand, the right to security, with which all those involved are engaged on a daily basis. Everyone has put that balanced balance in their opinion. These opinions were not unambiguous, but the text, as it stands today, is consistent with what most speakers have said in a more or less nuanced way. This means that whatever action the legislator will take in the future, no one can be deprived of their freedom for more than 48 hours from the time of deprivation of liberty in criminal investigations. This is a very clarifying and useful addition to the text, as it originally was, not because it is different from what has been considered in practice in the past. In the past, too, the starting point of the deprivation of liberty was a matter of fact. It started from the moment the suspect no longer had his freedom of coming and going. There may be a confusion between robbing one's freedom, so that one can no longer go or stand where he or she wants to, and the arrest. It refers to robbing someone's freedom by a decision of the parquet magistraat, whereas there may rather be an intervention by the police, in which one is deprived of his freedom by the police. All these time limits in criminal investigations were previously not to exceed 24 hours. Today we say that all these time limits together will not exceed 48 hours. Mrs Onkelinx, you say that we would not have listened sufficiently to the actors in the field and that, in particular, the investigators have expressed certain concerns. I think we've all heard it. What is before us today is an amendment to the article in the Constitution which guarantees our continued freedom while at the same time providing for a 48-hour deprivation of liberty in criminal investigations, after which a decision must be served and justified by the investigating judge. This does not mean, however, that with the possible unanimous approval of freedom, we are all concerned by the new constitutional article by the Court of Justice that the work of the legislator is finished.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u194	Chairperson: Siegfried Bracke, Chair. If you have listened carefully to the Minister's speech and many others during the discussion in committee, you will remember that they have all pointed out that Article 15a of the law on provisional detention will have to be amended. Many other provisions, such as the law on police duties, will need to be based on what the constitutionalist hopefully will approve today. If we take stock of the situation, we must do so at the end of the journey and not quickly criticise what has not yet happened. One step at a time. The foundations are laid today and will hopefully be supported by as many colleagues as possible, so that, among other things, the law on pre-trial detention can be amended. We shall be voting in favour of the text before us.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u195	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of the parliamentary year and to the end of a very long debate. Before I explain my group's position, I would like to comment on what Mr De Roover said earlier in his introduction, in particular the usefulness or nonsense of the attempt to collect a two-thirds majority for the 72-hour proposal a few weeks ago. I would like to repeat absolutely what I said in committee, in particular that if what everyone is saying here is true, that this is one of the most essential fundamental fundamental rights, Article 12 of our Constitution, because it guarantees the freedom of citizens, it is actually not permissive, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, that you speculate on the absence of a seriously ill colleague or on a delivery date to try to get a two-thirds majority on a truffle. People don't do that. People don't do that. In doing so, I would like to respond to whether or not the maneuver is useful.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u196	I do not know what Mr Bonte ate this afternoon, but it certainly was not good, that is clear. I'm not worried about it, either. I'm just fixing it. What kind of stupid comment do you make here? So you are saying that it would not have been impossible for you and your group to have entered into the logic of our proposal. That wouldn't have been impossible. Very often we have hope for something like moving insight. That is quite different from the statement, the totally empty statement again, I do not know what you are trying to achieve here, which we would have counted on the absence of a few sick colleagues. That doesn't make any sense. What we have done is put forward a proposal. We believe, in all seriousness and honesty, that it was a better solution than the one before us today. Today's proposal is a good one, and we thought it was a better one. It is important that the public can also see what the various positions are, for example, from your group. As far as the suspicion you're putting on here, again, I hope the mussels tasted good, but clearly they don't digest well.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u197	Mr De Roover, if you have followed the debate a little bit, what you have done effectively, and knew the views of the various political parties, in this hemisphere or unofficially, then you knew that there was no two-thirds majority. Moreover, you speculated on the absence of a number of people and you had a lack of collegiality to make voting arrangements. I thought that was a bridge too far. In short, you are not well placed, I believe, to lecture me on what may be said here or not. I believe that, in view of the fundamental rights contained in the Constitution, this was certainly not an appropriate manoeuvre in Article 12. I am, Mr De Roover, one of those you are cataloguing as those who are convinced that we should have voted in those 48 hours for a long time. I do belong to that group. I remember very well the Prime Minister's statements following the attacks in Paris. He said that we needed a constitutional change that introduced 72 hours. From that day on, I noticed that a number of fellow Members, like you and Mr Ducarme, were convinced that the 72 hours were necessary in the fight against terrorism, but I also noticed very quickly, after listening to the various actors in the field, in the committee that Mr Metsu was chairing, that it was not only obvious that 48 hours could carry out the broadest support but also that 48 hours more than enough to allow the actors to do their job in the fight against terror. I would like to make an appeal to Mr Ducarme and Mr De Roover. If you are truly convinced that 72 hours is needed to tackle terrorism efficiently, do not approve of this proposal. Then you should keep those 72 hours if you are convinced that 72 hours is effectively needed to do so. Indeed, I belong to the group of people who, after the hearings, realised that 48 hours were sufficient and were the ideal balance between guaranteeing individual freedoms for citizens, on the one hand, and an efficient approach to complex crime files, on the other. Indeed, we have all heard people who thought more nuanced about it, one pronounced more so, the other more different. The crucial links we have listened to were Mr Van Leeuw, not an insignificant man in the fight against terrorism, and the investigators. There is currently no known case of an act of terrorism for the sake of being too limited in the time of arrest. For us, it was obvious that there was the perfect balance. That was also the reason why we asked very quickly after the hearings to deal with the aspirations of the field, of the investigators, and we tabled the bill by 48 hours.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u198	I quote: In the light of this, a longer insurance period of probably 72 hours can be reasonably justified in Belgium. Those are the words of Mr Van Leeuw. If you use this as an argument, I think you can choose better lawyers. Mr Van Leeuw pointed out that he was not in favour of distinguishing between terrorist and other crimes. He said, go for 72 hours in its entirety. You said earlier: 'If you really think that 72 hours is a better instrument than 48 hours, you have to vote against the 48 hours, although I think that is a better instrument than 24 hours.' What reasoning is behind this is completely unclear to me. I will stay in the culinary atmosphere: I want mussels with fries, there are no fries, then I don't need mussels either. That is the reasoning you are putting forward here. Mr Bonte, I must say that you are impressive in your speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u199	Mr De Roover, you can also order an appetizer and a dessert. Then why not 96 or 102 hours? If you are convinced that 48 hours is not enough in this country to organise effectively in the fight against terrorism, you must vote against it. That's all I said.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u200	Mr Calvo wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u201	Mr President, I am confused. I feel like we're going through another working meeting of this colorful coalition. The word "bonte" was chosen by chance. Mr Bonte, I understand that Mr Ducarme has just been very upset. I don't know what you're used to in politics, but if they spit on my plate like that, I'd say they can eat it themselves. Mr. De Roover, you're a fan, not us. Mr Van Hecke will explain this later. If that is so important to you, you should thank Mr Bonte instead of having another debate here on the old proposal. It's hallucinating what we're going through right now. Mussels with fries, mussels without fries; this is a very strange coalition and a curious way of working, even crazier than the normal way of doing things with a normal majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u202	Mr Calvo, when I responded earlier, it was indeed the 48-hour deadline. It was just said that if I think 72 hours is a better solution, then I have to vote by 48 hours and fall back to 24 hours. That is a very bizarre reasoning. I have told Mr Bonte why we believe that 48 hours is better than 24 hours. That all seems quite logical to me, and I think that most people understand that, at least those who want to understand it. So I did not respond to the 72-hour deadline, but I did respond to the 48-hour deadline. It goes without saying that this is a colourful coalition. Constitutional changes very often create a very colourful coalition, because that includes a lot of people of very different beliefs, almost everyone, except your group.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u203	Mr De Roover, all I wanted to say is that you are twisting my words by saying that 72 hours is better than 48 hours. That's not what I said. I said that if, in your view, or according to Mr Ducarme, a 72-hour deadline is really necessary to combat terrorism effectively, you should not approve the amendment. That's what I said. Mr Calvo, once again, we were quick to believe that the 48-hour deadline should be included in the Constitution, because there are rather convincing elements or arguments in this regard, which we disagree with, in order to avoid the current situation of extension, which leads to hastiness or, in retrospect, to the unlawful placing of persons in court. That is why we are in favour of a 48-hour deadline. That is why we tabled that bill very quickly. They're asking for it on the field. I have two comments to make with regard to the government. Firstly, Minister, in the previous debate you pointed out the specific possibilities in the arrondissement of Halle-Vilvoorde in order to be able to work very quickly, because there is an effective need to lead people there in Brussels. This has a lot of consequences and causes a lot of difficulties. I can only repeat that I fully support the demand of the King's Attorney of Halle-Vilvoorde, who continues to work both publicly and through the appropriate channels for a fully-fledged judicial district of Halle-Vilvoorde. If the same quality of justice is to be guaranteed to the people in Halle-Vilvoorde, a fully-fledged judicial arrondissement must be created, with a fully-fledged court. That too is one of the acute problems, which sometimes make it difficult in practice to lead people in good time, as you yourself described. Secondly, I hope everyone realizes that locking people in a police cell for 48 hours is not obvious. Think of the experience and experience of those people. And let us assume that many people will find themselves in a police cell unjustly, and this will have to be done. You should know very well that a police cell is not a prison cell. It is particularly difficult to air people, to give them warm food and to guarantee them the necessary hygiene. More than that, Minister, many police areas in this country do not even have a cell. I call for this aspect to be taken into account when applying the extension of the time limit for arrest. I was particularly pleased with the initiative taken by my fellow Members from CdH to introduce some kind of monitoring of what happens in practice with the extension. If there is de facto an extension of the detention of people in police cells, then the government must also invest in it. Police zones should be encouraged to invest. In fact, it is no longer of this time that police zones do not have cells, either for the administrative arrest or for the administrative arrest. This has to be looked at on the merits. Minister, I would like to draw your attention to a particular element in the whole, based on my experience in my police area. Locking people in a police cell also means risk to the people who have to guard them, to police stations, to untrained police officers working in shifts. If dangerous individuals are actually arrested in the context of the fight against terrorism, then it happens once and for all that they are trying to free them. Let me be clear: an extension of the arrest in a police cell should also result in additional security in the surveillance of those police stations. Otherwise, there will be a significant increase in the risk for police officers who are not trained or trained for longer surveillance orders.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u204	Mr Bonte, I accept your argument that certain zones do not yet have police cells, but I think it is a very weak argument. You also know that these areas usually conclude a cooperation agreement with a neighbouring zone. So what exactly is the problem of inserting those 48 hours before that? That argument is outdated.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u205	Mr Degroote, I can only say that many police areas have no cell or are performing to close their police stations at night and at night. In that case, without agreement, people are sometimes dropped from police areas where they can go. That is also the reality. I am asking for cooperation agreements, but they must also have budgetary consequences. The Minister for the Interior should look into this problem and remedy it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u206	If you explain that in the Chair, then I think you should come up with figures. Name the police areas concerned. How many are there? Where are they? You can't just post something here casually.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u207	Mr Degroote, I am not the executive.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u208	No, you belong to the legislature. You must make such an argument.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u209	I simply ask that the executive, the Minister for the Interior, pay particular attention to the situation of police zones without police cells and that he informs himself of the possible security risks of the prolonged arrest. I don't know the numbers. I'd like to ask the Minister. For example, I know that the police zones Grimbergen, Kampenhout and Zemst, which are neighbors of the Vilvoorde-Machelen police zone, close the offices. Fortunately, we have a little capacity, and we are also so united in our ability to take on people, without a cooperation agreement and without financial compensation, which entails risks for the agents working weekend shifts there. I would just like to call on you, if we approve the amendment of the constitution, to take account of the resulting security issues and support for police areas that do not have police cells. That's all I'm asking.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u210	I don't want to keep talking about this. I am very sorry that you say such things without having any figures. We'll both get those numbers. You can't fish the police like that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u211	I'm not fishing for the police. I would like to draw attention to a problem that is indeed there. I'll get the figures from the minister. My group, ladies and gentlemen, was among those who were impatient to register the 48-hour deadline in Article 12 of our Constitution. We are therefore pleased that a consensus has grown and everyone has begun to recognise that this adjustment is a useful and necessary step forward. A On the other hand, I would like to underline the relativity of what we are doing here today. I do not think that the amendment of the constitution is the ultimate remedy for the fight against terrorism. Let us hope, however, that this will eliminate the phenomenon of kaduke cases against terrorist organisations. Colleagues, in the spirit of cooperation, which has now arisen, and bearing in mind the words of the Prime Minister, I ask that we do beyond the boundaries of opposition and majority what the citizens want us to do, namely to ensure maximum security. In this respect, the very crooked, unequal and unfair funding of the police areas remains very aberrant. That must be remedied urgently. I do not believe that the Watermaal-Bosvoorde-Oudergem-Ukkel police area, for example, should receive a lot more financial resources than the Brussels-West police zone, which includes Molenbeek among others. I cannot understand why the police areas in the Brussels-Capital Region with Molenbeek, which may face the greatest challenges in the fight against terrorism, are among the least-funded areas. But even compared to the police zones in the Brussels border, they are heavily financed. In short, the unfair funding and the unfair distribution of police capacity are distorting the situation. Where the risk derivatives are highest, the availability of the instruments is lowest. It should be possible to tackle this problem and work with it is much more efficient and useful for the day-to-day work of police and security services. I also mention the merger of the Brussels police zones, which are reportedly being discussed again. Well, I think that merger is obvious. In this context, I would like to appeal to Mr Metsu, chairman of the Temporary Committee on Counter-Terrorism. Mr Metsu, I realize that there is a kind of vanity struggle taking place in Parliament's wings over which committee should continue to work. In April 2016, in the Temporary Committee on Counter-Terrorism, which thoroughly prepared the present constitutional amendment, we decided with all the political groups to organise hearings on the efficiency, usefulness and/or undesirableness of the merger of the Brussels police zones. For the record, I asked when we would start these hearings. To this day, any attempt at that logical work is being made, because of taboos in the majority to engage in that debate. However, almost every security expert in our country and far beyond is convinced that we need much more efficient and coherent cooperation between the police forces in the capital. I therefore propose, Mr Metsu, that we implement the decision we have taken together. I don't know who to turn to. You always point at someone else. I have to address myself to the Home Secretary, then to someone else. But you are the chairman of the committee and the committee has decided to hold those hearings. So let us do that and do not always blame someone else for the delay manoeuvres. I would like to conclude by saying that we are very pleased that we can help to bring about the necessary adaptation of our Constitution. At the same time, I would like to emphasise relativity. As far as budget discussions are concerned, many balloons are embarrassed about tax cuts or a corporate tax reduction. However, in the field where security policy is to be ensured, I hear more about structural shortages in capacities, people and resources. I read today that the first President of the Antwerp Appeals Court, following the escape of two prisoners, explicitly blames the government for not filling in the framework. Yesterday, in the P Committee, I heard that ADIV and State Security have a structural staff shortage. The same applies to the federal police services, as the Dewael Committee's investigation showed. May I call on you not only to amend the Constitution together, but also to take security policy to heart again, including in the budget discussions? Ensure better and more efficient implementation of those who take care of our security on a daily basis, the intelligence and security services and the federal police. There lies the real concern of the people and of my party.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u212	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are having a very important debate today, but strange things are happening in Parliament. I would have thought that the majority would come here with a beautiful bouquet of flowers, that she would throw flowers at the opposition that most of the time. However, I was wrong, because they all brought flowerpots: Mr Ducarme, a serious flowerpot, Mr De Roover, too. They have started throwing flowerpots and even mussel pots at each other. Very bizarre, at a time when certain opposition people want to break down the majority, they get it. I hope that the agreement will still be in place at the time of the vote. I hope so for you, but I really hope it is no longer there, because the majority has already done very well to destroy the agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u213	Mr Van Hecke, I assume we will soon be told why you do not agree with our reasonable proposal. From the discussion in committee, I think I have already understood why. I respect that opinion, by the way, but I do not think that the opposition here is going to break down the majority. I assume that anyone who votes in favour of the proposal will vote in favour of it in the belief that it is a good arrangement and that anyone who does not agree with it will abstain or vote against it. However, I did not understand that certain opposition parties would break down the majority. It is a proposal to amend the constitution, whose merits should be looked at as such. So your drawing is not very correct, but I wonder whether you are also making original arguments to try to stop the necessary extension to 48 hours.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u214	So the conviction. Ladies and gentlemen, I think everyone knows our position. I explained our position here a few weeks ago. That was then to argue why the proposal at that time, with an extension to 72 hours, was not acceptable to us. I reiterated our position in committee last week. I would like to repeat that for those who do not know it yet. Ecolo-Groen agrees to extend the deadline from 24 hours to 48 hours, as we have always said, on two conditions which we have always put forward. Firstly, the impossibility of extending that 48-hour period. Secondly, a judicial review after a maximum of 24 hours. In the meantime, that first condition has been met. The present text no longer provides for the extension to 72 hours. That is a good thing. We discussed this here a few weeks ago. I'm not gonna repeat that. However, the judicial control that is essential for us is still not in place today. Mr De Roover, why can't we support this text? There are five reasons, five concerns that I would like to highlight. First of all, a word about the M.O. It is said that it is not true that all of this is going fast, because we have been working on it for a long time. Indeed, the debate itself on the amendment of Article 12 of the Constitution has been going on for a year and a half in the Temporary Committee and in hearings. However, the discussion of this text has only been going on for a week, not a year and a half. What happened last Thursday? Although a proposal to amend the Constitution should not be considered by the Chamber, the urgent need for the amendment of the Constitution has been called for. The Chamber has decided to do so. On Friday, there was an immediate discussion in the Committee on the Revision of the Constitution. Luckily, it wasn't 700-page peat, it was an article. So we can prepare that. That was not the problem, but after some discussion it appeared that an amendment was soon needed. Mrs. Onkelinx also referred to it. That was an amendment in the classic sense. One takes a sheet of paper and one writes an amendment by hand. The vote will then be taken on the amendment. It has also been said that advice could be sought from the legal service. That has been done and we have received this advice at the beginning of this week, with a pertinent remark. I'll come back to that later. Now we are standing here a week after the urgency has been requested. That is not really serious, and that is inconceivable for an article on which many speakers, including the majority, have said that it is one of the most essential provisions in our Constitution. It is a provision that has been in it since 1831 and has never been amended in those 186 years. We will change that in six or seven days, a text that has existed for 186 years! The quality is the same. I will come back to that later. Secondly, the 24-hour check is essential for us. Why is it important for the investigating judge to be involved quickly in a file on a pre-trial detention? He gets involved in a file very quickly and can follow it up. Moreover, it can be avoided that 48 hours becomes the rule in all files. That is the great concern we have. What is the complaint made by the investigating judge about the 24-hour rule? The court or police department will bring their file to the investigating judge after 22 or 23 hours, giving them less than an hour to judge whether or not to arrest the person concerned. The great danger is, and we absolutely must avoid it, that the police and the public prosecutor go to the investigating court after 46 or 47 hours. The file will probably be a little thicker and on that basis they will ask for the arrest. The investigating judge is thus faced with the same problem. In the hearings we took note of various systems from other countries. In a system there were two deadlines: a time limit of 36 hours, for example, in which the investigating judge must be caught and a time limit of 12 hours, for example, available to the investigating judge to make a judgment. In this way, a period of 48 hours will also be reached, but this will guarantee that the investigating judge will be able to examine the file with knowledge and sufficient time, question the suspect and, if necessary, request further information. That choice wasn't made. Forty-eight hours without control, however, means that there is a risk that the 48 hours will also be used in less essential, important and complex matters. I understand the complexity of terrorism cases. In terrorism cases, this 48-hour deadline will not be a problem, but it should not be systematically used for simpler and less complex cases. The principle that one should always be brought to justice as soon as possible must be guaranteed. Thirdly, were there no alternatives to solving the problem on the ground? Ladies and gentlemen, there is already the possibility today of extending the deadline from 24 hours to 48 hours. This is about Article 15a of the law on pre-trial detention. We asked the investigators who came to the hearings why they were not using this opportunity. An investigation has shown that only 1% of investigators use the possibility of extending the 24-hour period to 48 hours. They have convincingly explained to us that the procedure currently provided for in Article 15a is not sufficient or too difficult. They must draw up an order and motivate it very well. In fact, it is already possible to conclude from this justification that an arrest may follow. In that case, they might as well proceed with the arrest. If they give the arguments why they need more time, they will also release a piece of the research scientist. This means that the order will often come into the hands of other persons who still have to be questioned through lawyers. We fully understand this, which is why we have also put forward an alternative proposal. We have tabled a bill to amend Article 15a and to ensure that the investigating judge can decide very quickly to extend the 24-hour period immediately to 48 hours without having to take a specific reasoned decision. It was also a suggestion made in the hearings by the OVB, avocats.be and by Professor Vandermeersch. Those who have just said that the proposals put forward by Ecolo-Groen are not based on anything and are not supported by any expert are therefore wrong. Either the file has not been read or it has been very selective. Fourthly, a great concern is that deprivation of liberty should not last longer than necessary. The extension of the time limit should not result in suspects having to wait longer than necessary to appear before a court. Mr Yüksel has also stressed this. The impact of their arrest and the waiting to appear before an investigating judge can have very serious consequences. If people spend 48 hours in a police cell, they can't go to work. It is equally possible that after 48 hours the investigating judge decides not to arrest them. The person may be released, but there may have been damage. The personal situation and the working situation may be affected by this. All international conventions also say that the time limit for appearing before a court should be kept as short as possible. It shall not be longer than necessary. We assume that, in the vast majority of cases, everyone will have that in mind. However, it is not excluded that because of the lack of staff, because of the workload or because of all kinds of other circumstances people say that they have 48 hours, that they are going to take some time to prepare a PV and that after 45 or 46 hours they will go to the investigating judge. That is something we absolutely cannot accept. That is why it is also a good thing that there has been a suggestion, including from the majority, that we should analyse how that time limit is used. This must not give rise to any abuse. I think we all agree on that. Finally, there is the fifth reason; these are for rather technical reasons. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the text before us does not deserve a beauty prize. I invite you all to read that text once, twice, three times, four times and think about what this actually means. When it was reported in the media that there was an agreement, a two-thirds majority to go from 24 to 48 hours, I thought that the existing constitutional article would be taken and that 24 would be replaced by 48. That was a mistake. They've done it a little more complex. We have not only changed 24 by 48, but we have also changed some other things in the wording. For example, where it is now stated that an order must be served at the time of arrest or within 24 hours at the latest, the signature of the arrest certificate has been omitted. If one asks why it has been omitted, it is said that it is not being used and if it is not being used in practice, it is better to delete it. The consequence is that the period of departure of those 24 hours and later the 48 hours is no longer clear and the question is asked when the 48 hours start to run. A handwritten amendment was then quickly tabled, stating that that period will run from the deprivation of liberty. I would like to make one more point. We have discussed this, Minister. You argued that it is not being used. At that time, I referred to Article 16 (2) of the law on pre-trial detention, which states that an arrest warrant can also be issued against a fugitive person who is abroad and who does not appear before you. There, however, one must be able to mean the arrest warrant that has been issued when that person is caught. You say that this is not correct, but that the law on pre-trial detention should be completely rewritten, because it concerns two orders of arrest. There's a first order of arrest that says someone needs to be apprehended. If that person is then brought to you, there will be a second order of arrest. I've checked it out. Professor Raf Verstraeten, a colleague of your university and former officemate, explained this in a booklet. He claims that there may indeed be two situations concerning an arrest order against a fugitive or foreign person. There are two possible ways of doing this. Either the judicial investigation is still going on, or it isn't. If the judicial investigation is still ongoing, then he can indeed be taken on the basis of the arrest order and then brought before the investigating judge. He interrogates the person and can then issue a second arrest order. However, if the judicial investigation is over, then that second order can no longer be served and there is only one order, the original order of detention to be served. If that is deleted from the Constitution, then the question arises as to how to deal with it. In my view, therefore, the deletion has more consequences than is estimated. A new term is also added: deprivation of liberty. Liberty robbery is, of course, something other than an arrest. Freedom robbery is much wider. Not every deprivation of liberty is an arrest, but every arrest is a deprivation of liberty. That is also the point made by the Legal Service. We must not go over that lightly. We have a very good legal service, Mr President, and I would like to emphasise that. The Legal Service is doing a wonderful job in second reading...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u215	I couldn't agree more.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u216	Well, the legal department has made a wonderful recommendation for us. With the support of the President, who says that it is a splendid opinion, I would like to quote from the opinion: "For the calculation of a time limit, it is also better to use an uninterpreted time." The concept of detention/arrestation refers to the exact time from when one no longer has the freedom to come and go, while the concept of deprivation/privacy de liberté sometimes also refers to the period in which one does not have the freedom. The legal service expressly refers to the provision in the law on pre-trial detention concerning the administrative detention of 12 hours for reasons of public policy. People who do not behave in a demonstration or who may cause unrest can be detained for up to 12 hours. That administrative arrest is a deprivation of liberty. But it's not an arrest for a criminal offence. That's something completely different. By introducing deprivation of liberty into the Constitution, Article 12 now also applies to those forms of deprivation of liberty, which is not the case today. Today, the administrative arrest of 12 noon does not apply to Article 12. That's what the law says. Article 12 shall apply only in the case of a judicial arrest, not in the case of an administrative arrest. However, this amendment gives a very different meaning to the constitutional article and includes the administrative detention of 12 hours. What will be the consequences of that? That was not the intention, Minister. In the explanatory memorandum to the last proposal submitted, it is quite explicitly stated, on page 5: "The present proposal therefore provides for a deprivation of liberty resulting from evidence of criminal offences." Offences. It is not the administrative arrest for the sake of public order that is being seen, but the arrest for criminal offences, or the arrest for criminal offences. In other words, what is before us today, after a very rapid and unfortunate amendment in committee, means that this article will suddenly have a different meaning and will suddenly be applicable to something to which the 186 years have not been applicable. Ladies and gentlemen, with all due respect for the work that has been done, I believe that there has been a rush to speed things up and to legal tampering. Hurrying and legal messing! One could have changed the article by simply changing 24 hours to 48 hours but they wanted to make it a little special and they opened Pandora's box. I believe that the amendment before us today will create more problems on the ground than we will solve. But, perhaps fortunately, a constitutional change is also the power of the Senate. The Senate will have to consider it. Now we really have to hope that the Senate will do better than the Chamber and make corrections. I hope that the Senate will conduct the fundamental debate thoroughly and look at the alternatives that we have worked out in concrete texts. For all these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot support this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u217	Mr President, the debate on the extension of the period of police custody has been held for many hours in committee and in plenary. This is the second attempt to revise article 12. As the previous speaker said, we were surprised to hear some speakers justify the seventy-two hour deadline more than defending the text for which they are now the authors. I will not repeat the debate on the seventy-two hours, it is no longer appropriate to be. There was no majority to convince, point. It's a reality. As I had the opportunity to say in the previous debate, I am not counting here the number of judges who would be in favour or not in favour of a particular deadline. Of course, these words from experts were useful to us, sometimes they convinced those who wanted to go up to the seventy-two hours and sometimes those who wanted to stay at a reasonable time. Mr. Delperée recalled that there was no constitutional provision of different value. And I think that the Constitution is not only being revised to respond to circumstances, even exceptional ones, and only to justify the fight against the worst crime. Of course, we cannot forget what the fight against terrorism is. But the debate on the delay in police custody is not the answer to this struggle, or the necessary response to prevent the rise of terrorism. We must ensure, as a constituent, and as a sovereign power, that we are, what is the very meaning of the Constitution, that is, the balance between freedom and coercion. We do not strike that balance in the light of the events we are experiencing today. We are not revising the Constitution for a short period, we are not making an emergency provision. In principle, we are writing a provision that will be permanent and that will have to respond to the broadest configuration of the situations justifying police custody. That is why I am among those who consider that the 48-hour time limit is ample enough to allow an investigating magistrate to decide on an order for deprivation of liberty, because there is no reason to choose the emergency situation to establish a constitutional norm. It is a principle that guides me in the work of the grantor. At this rate, we could have chosen many more deadlines. References can certainly be found in foreign legislation, where the deadlines go well beyond 48 hours. I note, however, that in the vast majority of European countries, that is to say, those which have sought a balance between freedom and security, it is the 48-hour deadline that is the most generally shared standard. I do not believe that it is desirable to join the extreme attitudes of those who believe that by always threatening fundamental freedoms a little more, they will guarantee security – when we know that this is not the case. That's why, rather than getting lost in cunning to count the number of magistrates who would have pleaded in one direction or another, I prefer to rely on the reason of the grantor who wants to persevere in a rule without only taking into account particular circumstances. That is the work of the constituent. I am pleased today that there is finally a majority who will decide to constitutionalize what we have done with the Salduz law. So this is no longer the answer to a Prime Minister's call at all, and I understand that, at the time of events, he wanted to announce a package of measures. In this case, however, it was not the most necessary response in terms of combating terrorism. Tonight, we return to what makes the Constituent's wisdom: to establish a lasting rule in the light of a judicial practice that visibly responds to the need for effective justice. Since it is not necessary to do more than the effectiveness of justice requires, there is no need to threaten or imbalance more to the detriment of fundamental freedoms what the guarantees offered by the Constitution can be.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u218	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this proposal to adapt Article 12 of the Constitution by bringing the arrest from twenty-four to forty-eight hours comes after the failed attempt to increase the deadline to seven-two hours. Our arguments against the extension of police custody to 48 hours remain for the most part the same as those against the extension to seventy-two hours. I'll call them back soon. First, there is some doubt about the efficiency of the measure. Is extension really necessary in the fight against terrorism? To what extent are the facts that have occurred dramatically not being used? It can be recalled that in the April 2015 Justice Plan before the Paris bombings, the Minister of Justice already had this plan to extend this deadline. However, there are two kinds of investigations for terrorist and organised crime cases: on the one hand, cases for which the investigation is already under way, including arrests of persons planned and coordinated at the end of the journey, and on the other hand, cases in which persons are arrested, clearly linked to the facts (camera images in support, etc.).). In both cases, it should be noted that it is entirely possible for the Court to arrange for the 24-hour period to be respected in order to issue, where appropriate, an arrest warrant within that period. One of the arguments for the general extension to 48 hours was the complexity imposed by the Salduz Act, which requires the presence of a lawyer to begin an interrogation. The Minister of Justice has given as the only argument, in an article of the Juristenkrant, that twenty-four hours are not enough to organize the assistance of a lawyer. But the bar associations, which did not defend the 48 hours, organized themselves so that the lawyers could be present. I don't think that's an argument either. The same Salduz reform introduced the possibility of extending the deadline to 48 hours, subject to review by an investigating judge. This possibility is almost not used. In most cases, the 48 hours do not seem necessary. In any case, for the PTB, the supervision of an investigating judge is crucial. This proposal seeks to avoid this control. Let's take a step back. I would like to quote French judge Marc Trévidic, who, during the discussions on the state of emergency in France, referred to the extension of police custody: "The conditions of police custody have changed radically. People have lawyers and some choose to keep quiet; so that when, exceptionally, the length of custody is extended, they are more tired, but no more loquacious, and they get little more."
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u219	Colleagues, may I ask you to listen to Mr. Van Hees?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u220	May I continue, Mr. President? I'm waiting for a little silence. I continue my quote: "In Belgium, for example, the duration of police custody is not more than 24 hours, but police officers continue interrogations at the prison. We have the "chance" that in the matter of jihadist terrorism, contrary to what applies to Corsican or Basque terrorism, some speak a lot but those who choose to remain silent will remain strictly silent for six hours or ten days, so that it is not really useful to extend the period of police custody further." The last element that seems essential to me is the danger that these provisions pose to fundamental rights. Is it really desirable to resort to a longer arrest in the common law? To deprive someone of their liberty is an extremely heavy and intrusive measure, its consequences, both for the person and for his family, can be serious. During the hearings, lawyers.be and the Ligue des droits de l'homme objected to the extension of the deadline. They insisted that for any extension of the period of arrest beyond 24 hours, an investigating judge should intervene. Therefore, we will not support this amendment of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u221	Mr President, about three weeks ago the debate took place in this House on the same subject. The special majority could not be reached. Today we come back with a text, the result of a consensus, of a majority found with the opposition parties. The debate could have been simple. It has been more than three hours since both sides justified their future vote on the proposed revision of the Constitution! The debate has already taken place in a previous plenary, in committee, and we are still going back to that today. For my part, I would just like to say that I will support the amendment of Article 12 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u222	If none of the Members of Parliament wishes to speak, I shall give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u223	Mr President, may I first, on behalf of the government, both the members of the majority and the members of the enlarged majority, la majorité élargy, les membres du cdH, the members of sp.a and perhaps already... I would also like in advance to thank the members of the opposition, who would vote with us, for their support for this long-awaited text. I hope he will bring us peace on the subject because it was very necessary. First of all, let us say that this text was already felt necessary by your Parliament before terrorism over our country. In particular, it is because the Constitution could not be revised on this point in 2011, as Mr Delpérée has just made clear, that at that time your Parliament considered it necessary to include in the text of the provisional detention law an Article 15a. Despite the text of the Constitution, that article allowed the 24-hour deadline to be extended to 48 hours, subject to the intervention of the investigating judge. We do not lose sight of the fact that, since 1831, the Constitution has used the word "to be used'. It must be served within 24 hours. Despite the use of that word, the Constitution of 1831, with my full approval, saw the possibility of saying that something else could happen after 24 hours, namely an extension order. That was a brilliant trouvaille, which saved us with the Salduz judgment because in some cases we were only in 1% of the cases, you could not foresee that at that time; I shall return to that later on, I would have liked to see a possible extension of that period. I'm gonna press that word "I'm gonna have to..." That does point out that in itself it was not enough to make a Parliament 186 years later, and I refer to the pérennité to which Mr Maingain referred earlier, however, to find an exception to a constitutional rule. That's why. That is why it has been added to the text, that the order may, only after 48 hours, have as its object the remand in custody, because there can be no alternative to this. It has often been said that there are alternatives. Mrs Onkelinx has said, on several occasions, that something else can be done. The text of article 12 in its current wording as well as in its earlier wording states that "a person may be arrested only by virtue of an order which shall stop him". It is clear that between the flow of 48 or 24 hours, other facts may occur, for example, release. The text does not prohibit the arrival of new elements in the meantime. But he says that, when a person is arrested, it is necessary, within 24 hours of his deprivation of liberty, in case the extension of his deprivation of liberty is desired, to signify a reasoned order which may have as its sole purpose the modification of his detention in pre-trial detention. Pre-trial detention, to be clear, under the 1990 Act has two purposes for the moment: either imprisonment or electronic surveillance. Having said that, you understand very well why that last sentence has been added. I know people are wondering why. That is precisely what happened to reassure all fellow Members that arrests in a police cell will never last longer than 48 hours. That is the purpose of the text. Afterwards, necessarily, if one wants to deprive the person of his freedom for longer, one will either put him in jail or impose an electronic anklet or another mode of pre-trial detention. I think that with the following reasoning I will reply to what Mr Van Hecke has said. One of the problems of our current Constitution, the text as it stands at present, is that we read it from the law on provisional detention of 1990. We read the Constitution from a legal text that is 170 years younger and gives meaning to the Constitution on a number of points. Anyone who reads that 1990 law immediately stumbles upon the use of a number of terms which are not immediately found in the Constitution: arrest, arrest warrant, deprivation of liberty, order of entry and yet another concept that is not referred to in so many words in the Constitution, but that I will explain immediately, Mr Van Hecke, the detention in absentia in the event of a fugitive state. All these terms are used interchangeably. If we were to approve this constitutional reform, we would have to clear the terminology in the 1990 law so that we understand each other. If we want to look at this text again in 40 years' time, because I do not think that this text will last 186 years, we should not have the same misunderstandings. However much one can say that the text could have been even clearer if we had used ten lines, I think that, with a text that tries to respond to the same succinctness as a text that had to be done in 1831, we should have done the right thing to start the text in the same way. In this way one cannot misread him and one does not feel obliged to understand all kinds of other things. I am very grateful that during the committee meetings there have been debates which have led to the addition of the phrase "since his deprivation of liberty". With all the credit for those who would have liked to have been there since his arrest, it is difficult to say that no one can be arrested except under an arrest order which must be served within 48 hours of his arrest. It would then be expected that the arrest order would be there at the time of arrest, that is to say, stopped. However, I would like to explain a few words about interpretations that one might have. The fact that this text begins in the act means that there may be more than 48 hours between the detention by a citizen of a criminal who has been caught in the act and the time when the investigating judge must mean that order for arrest, because the 48-hour period starts to run when the citizen's declaration is made. So, this "except in the case of caught in the act" is a phrase that's on trial there. Mr Van Hecke, in the article you are referring to, Article 16 (2) states that, except in the case of a fugitive offence, something must be done. In the case of a fugitive or a fugitive offence, the following shall apply: normally there must be a reasoned arrest warrant, but in the case of a fugitive there may be an arrest in absentia. The investigating judge can then do two cases: he can have that person arrested and signal him, or he can make an arrest in absentia and request his arrest. In the latter case, a real arrest order must now be issued within 48 hours of the date of arrest. I am not very happy in that sense either, and I do not think anyone among us, with the fact that the word arrest at the two moments interferes with our law on pre-trial detention. It even intervenes internationally because international law also means European arrest warrants. Last week, you all heard that the murder suspect on the coast, who was transferred from Romania, was apprehended by the investigating judge in Bruges. That person had already been stopped in Romania, he had already been deprived of his freedom in Romania. This does not prevent our article from playing in full at that time, on the understanding that the 48-hour period does not begin to run until the person enters Belgium and remains deprived of his freedom after being deprived of his freedom abroad. Within 48 hours of his entry into Belgium, he must be detained by a reasoned order from the investigating judge. Mr Van Hecke, you referred to the administrative arrest. I don't know if we're talking about the same thing. But I believe that in section 32 of the Law on the Police Service, it is said that the two deadlines must be superimposed, not in the sense that it is 12 hours of administrative arrest plus 24 hours. This means that, when there is an administrative arrest - for example during a public demonstration in which the police used violence without the prosecutor's permission - as soon as the prosecutor intervenes, a new 24-hour period does not start to run, but the first period is absorbed by the 24-hour period. In this case, amended section 32 – because we are going to change it – and replace the 24 hours by 48 hours, will stipulate that, as soon as there is administrative arrest and this administrative arrest is transformed into judicial arrest by a prosecutor, the time limits of 12 and 24 hours overlap but do not cumulate. Mr President, so far there have been some technical comments. Mr Van Hecke, you asked what happens when a person is arrested after the conclusion of a judicial investigation, which may be closed, or when someone is arrested for the purposes of the execution of the sentence. Where a person is detained for the purposes of the execution of the sentence, it shall be the prosecutor, on the basis of a decision of the judge, who shall apprehend him. Then Article 12 is fully complied with. When a judicial investigation is completed and one wishes to continue, a new period of 48 hours starts to run on the basis of Article 12 of the Constitution. We have seen this on several occasions in practice in recent months. Mr President, I will no longer insist on the need to extend this deadline by 24 hours. I think that in Europe, in relation to this problem, we are very modest and that is very good. I am glad that we do not have 96 hours as in some other countries or even longer deadlines. I think we're a good student in the class and that's a good average. With the Salduz law, with European law, with all the protections of the rights of defence imposed on us by the right to freedom, as the European legislator and the Belgian legislator understand, we can use these 48 hours in the best possible way. It is not in the intentions of the legislator, the constitutional, the constituent or the government to make the 47th hour more conducive to action, like the student who still has to study something at the last minute. That's not the point! And that is why we are very pleased to include in the future amendment to the law on preventive detention a regular assessment, by the Minister of Justice and the Minister of the Interior, of the police capacity and the police cells made available by the Minister of the Interior and of the effectiveness of this delay and of the number of times that a period of more than 24 or 30 hours is used for special cases. The law of pre-trial detention will make it possible to adapt, if necessary, in the future. If you have any substantive objections to the terminology used, I invite you to read the law on pre-trial detention, to read all the terms used in it, and to rejoice at the way in which the law will be amended to better agree with the new article 12 of the Constitution. I do not wish to end my speech without once again thanking all my fellow Members for the splendid debate we had a few months ago on the 72-hour deadline. I thought that was an intellectual enrichment. Today, that was the case again. I hope that once in a while, but not too often, we will be able to amend the Constitution in this way. I have not been so extensive, Mr Vice-President. I just wanted to thank you for the exemplary way in which you led the debates together with the President.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u224	Thank you, Minister. Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The discussion of the Single Rule is closed. The discussion of the single article is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u225	****** The vote on the amendments and the proposal for revision will be held. The vote on the amendments and the proposal for revision is reserved.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u226	The Conference of Presidents of 19 July 2017 instructs the Chamber of Representatives to extend the mandate of the Special Committee on "International Tax Fraud/Panama Papers' and of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry to finalise the mandate of the Special Committee on "International Tax Fraud/Panama Papers' until 31 October 2017, as well as the mandate of the Permanent Experts of the Special Committee and of the Committee of Inquiry (Mrs Bourgeois and Delanote). The Conference of Presidents of 19 July 2017 proposes to the House of Representatives to extend the mandate of the Special Committee on International Tax Fraud/Panama Papers and the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry to finalize the mission of the Special Committee on International Tax Fraud/Panama Papers until 31 October 2017 and to renew the mission of the permanent experts of the Special Commission and the Committee of Inquiry (MM. Bourgeois and Delanote). Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u227	The next item is the secret ballot for the appointment of the President of the Disciplinary Board of the Commission for the Regulation of Electricity and Gas. The next item is the election for the appointment of the Chairman of the Disciplinary Council of the Electricity and Gas Regulatory Commission. In accordance with Article 38 of the Act of 8 January 2012 amending the Act of 29 April 1999 on the organisation of the electricity market and the Act of 12 April 1965 on the transport of gaseous products and other pipelines, a Disciplinary Board is hereby established which may, in certain cases, terminate the mandate of the Chairman or of one or more members of the Management Committee of the Commission for the Regulation of Electricity and Gas (CREG). In accordance with Article 38 of the Law of 8 January 2012 amending the Law of 29 April 1999 on the organization of the electricity market and the Law of 12 April 1965 on the transport of gaseous and other products by pipeline, a Disciplinary Council is established which, in certain cases, may terminate the term of office of the Chairman or one or more members of the Management Committee of the Electricity and Gas Regulatory Commission (CRE). The Disciplinary Board shall consist of a chairman and two members, all magistrates, elected by the Chamber of Representatives for a renewable term of six years. One member is Dutch-speaking, the other French-speaking. For the President and the members, the Chamber of Representatives should appoint alternates. The Disciplinary Council consists of a President and two members, all judges, who are elected by the House of Representatives for a renewable term of six years. One member is French-speaking, the other is Dutch-speaking. The House of Representatives shall appoint alternates for the President and members. The effective and alternate members of the Disciplinary Board were appointed at the plenary session of 24 May 2017. The actual and alternate members of the Disciplinary Council were appointed during the plenary session on 24 May 2017. Ms Caroline Vanderkerken's candidacy for the mandate of effective President was announced at the plenary session of 13 July 2017. Caroline Vanderkerken's candidacy for the term of effective president was announced in plenary on 13 July 2017. Since there is only one candidate, Mrs Caroline Vanderkerken, pursuant to Article 157.6 of the Rules of Procedure, may be elected as effective chairman of the Disciplinary Board of the Commission for the Regulation of Electricity and Gas. Since there is only one candidate, the Chamber may declare Ms Caroline Vanderkerken elected as the effective chairman of the Disciplinary Council of the Electricity and Gas Regulatory Commission, pursuant to rule 157.6 of the Rules of the Chamber. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 12 July 2017, I propose that you publish a call to candidates for the mandate of alternate president in the Belgian Official Journal. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 12 July 2017, I propose that you publish in the Belgian Moniteur a call for candidates for the term of office of alternate president. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u228	The next item is the secret vote on naturalisations. (2555/1-2) The next item is the vote on naturalisations. (2555/1-2) Members are invited to deposit the proposal of naturalisation laws in the ballot box. Members are requested to submit the proposed naturalization laws in the ballot box. The proposal of naturalisation laws must not be signed. The proposed naturalization laws cannot be signed. Where a member opposes the naturalisation of an applicant, he shall delete the name of the interested party from the list which was delivered to him. A member who does not intend to grant naturalization to an applicant will delete the name of the applicant from the list given to him. Two Members must vote. I propose that our youngest two Members, Mrs Yoleen Van Camp and Mr Kristof Calvo, be appointed as voters. Two members shall proceed to the counting of the ballot. I propose that you appoint the two youngest members, Mrs Yoleen Van Camp and Mr Kristof Calvo, as deputy returning officer. I invite the voters from the names to call. I invite the deputy returning officers to make the roll call.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u229	We are going to close the secret vote on naturalization applications. We will close the ballot for naturalization applications. I would ask those Members who have not yet done so to put their ballots on the bus immediately. I ask those members who have not yet tabled their ballots to do so immediately. The secret ballot is closed. I declare the ballot closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u230	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 19 July 2017, I also propose that you consider: - the legislative proposal (Mrs Inez De Coninck, Mr David Clarinval, Mr Servais Verherstraeten and Mr Luk Van Biesen and Mrs Karin Temmerman) amending several laws on electoral expenditure and financing of political parties, as regards sponsorship, No. 2620/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u231	- the draft law (Mrs Veerle Wouters and Mr Hendrik Vuye) implementing Articles 10, 89 and 172 of the Constitution as regards the civil list, No. 2622/1. - the motion for a resolution (Mr Gilles Vanden Burre, Mrs Meyrem Almaci, Mr Jean-Marc Nollet, Mr Kristof Calvo, Mr Georges Gilkinet and Mrs Muriel Gerkens) on investment by Belfius and FPIM in fossil energy and unethical activities, No. 2623/1. - the legislative proposal (Mr Johan Klaps) establishing a harmonized statute for insurance intermediaries, No. 2626/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u232	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 19 July 2017, I also propose that you take into account: - the bill (Ms. Inez De Coninck, MM. David Clarinval, Servais Verherstraeten and Luk Van Biesen and Mrs Karin Temmerman) amending various laws relating to election expenses and the financing of political parties, with regard to sponsorship, No. 2620/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u233	- the draft law (Ms Veerle Wouters and Mr Hendrik Vuye) implementing articles 10, 89 and 172 of the Constitution with regard to the civil list, No. 2622/1. - the motion for a resolution (Mr Gilles Vanden Burre, Mrs Meyrem Almaci, MM. Jean-Marc Nollet, Kristof Calvo and Georges Gilkinet and Mrs Muriel Gerkens) concerning investments by Belfius and SFPI in fossil fuels and non-ethical activities, No 2623/1. - the proposal for a law (Mr Johan Klaps) introducing a harmonised statute for the insurance intermediary, No 2626/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u234	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I also suggest that you consider: - the motion for a resolution (Mr Vincent Van Peteghem) on the impact at European level of an ecological import tax on CO2-intensive goods from countries or regions which do not make proportionate efforts under the international climate agreements, 2618/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u235	- the legislative proposal (Mr Stefaan Vercamer and Ms Nahima Lanjri) amending the law of 4 December 2007 on social elections, No. 2619/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u236	- the bill (Mrs Leen Dierick) amending Royal Decree No. 20 of 20 July 1970 fixing the rates of value added tax and the classification of goods and services relating to such rates as regards coal and energy-saving materials, 2627/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u237	I also propose that you take into account: - the motion for a resolution (Mr Vincent Van Peteghem) on the implementation at European level of an ecological import tax on CO2-intensive products from countries or regions which do not make proportionate efforts under international climate agreements, No 2618/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u238	- the bill (Mr. Stefaan Vercamer and Ms. Nahima Lanjri) amending the Act of 4 December 2007 on social elections, No. 2619/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u239	- the proposal for a law (Ms. Leen Dierick) amending, as regards coal and energy-saving materials, Royal Decree No 20 of 20 July 1970 fixing the rates of value added tax and determining the distribution of goods and services according to these rates, No 2627/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u240	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u241	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 142 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (2040/14) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (2040/14)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u242	Vote on Amendment No 22 by Wouter De Vriendt cs on request 16. (1975/7) Vote on amendment No 22 by Wouter De Vriendt cs in point 16. (1975/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 44 Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 17 Abstensions Total 142 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reasons for abstinence? Reasons for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u243	Mr President, I wish to justify my abstention once again. Yes, I did pair for Mrs. Ben Hamou. I think this is the last time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u244	Mr President, in itself it is a good text on the protection of religious minorities, tabled by Mr Luykx, among others, but there is a serious sting on the text. This text actually gives priority to the resettlement of religious minorities, while resettlement should be about the vulnerability of political refugees and war refugees. Mr Luykx, we have tabled a crystal clear and flawless amendment to remedy that. We have proposed that instead of saying "priority' "interest', we should be referring to the resettlement of religious minorities. In this way one does not put it above the other. It's a new element. We insist that it is a serious sting in the text because it gives the government a clear lead to resettle only Christians, as has happened in the past under Secretary of State Francken, while the criterion should be vulnerability. We had a debate on this yesterday and you took a number of oral measures, but the text is what it is. We have tried to improve them, but they have not been met, hence our abstention from the resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u245	Are there any other explanations of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u246	Mr President, even though we had the debate yesterday and I found the arguments as they were put forward yesterday and today clear, I insist that Wouter De Vriendt's proposal is a semantic discussion. Looking at the resolution as a whole, it is clear that it is not the case that this is the only point in foreign affairs policy. It is one of many priorities, but there is absolutely no hierarchy in the whole policy. Mr De Vriendt, I do not want to spend much more time on it, let us take this with us and show your support for the importance of the resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u247	We will assume that this was an explanation of vote, but in fact it was not one.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u248	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 127 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 15 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (1975/8) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (1975/8) Mrs Vanheste voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u249	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 136 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (2496/5) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (2496/5) Mr Flahaux voted in favour. Mr Beke voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u250	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 86 Yes No. [[55]] No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The proposal of Resolution No. 1380/1 was therefore rejected. Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Motion for a resolution No 1380/1 is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u251	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 142 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2530/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2530/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u252	Vote on Amendment No 69 by Christian Brotcorne on Article 46. (2282/11) Vote on Amendment No 69 by Christian Brotcorne to Rule 46. (2282/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes [[10]] Yes No. 124 No Abstentions 8 Abstensions Total 142 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 70 by Christian Brotcorne on article 46. (2282/11) Vote on Amendment No 70 by Christian Brotcorne to Rule 46. (2282/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u253	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 46 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 46 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 68 by Christian Brotcorne on Article 47. (2282/11) Vote on Amendment No 68 by Christian Brotcorne to Rule 47. (2282/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes [[10]] Yes No. 104 No Abstentions 27 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 47 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 47 was adopted. Mr Lutgen voted in favour. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 67 by Christian Brotcorne on Article 54. (2282/11) Vote on Amendment No 67 by Christian Brotcorne to Rule 54. (2282/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u254	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 54 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 54 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u255	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes 105 Yes No. [[29]] No Abstentions 8 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. (2282/12) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. (2282/12) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u256	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes 142 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2511/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2511/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u257	Vote on Amendment No 7 by Isabelle Poncelet cs on article 25. (2558/5) Vote on Amendment No 7 by Isabelle Poncelet cs to Article 25. (2558/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes 34 Yes No. 103 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 25 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 25 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u258	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 12) Yes 107 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 35 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2558/6) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2558/6) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u259	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 13) Yes 142 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2418/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2418/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u260	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 139 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2564/6) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2564/6) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u261	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 15) Yes 142 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2576/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2576/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u262	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 16) Yes 141 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2563/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2563/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u263	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 17) Yes 137 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 142 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2585/4) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2585/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u264	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 18) Yes 142 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 142 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2586/4) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2586/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u265	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 19) Yes 89 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 53 Abstensions Total 142 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2504/8) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2504/8) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u266	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 20) Yes 142 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 142 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2566/5) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2566/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u267	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 21) Yes 142 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 142 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be forwarded to the Senate. (2567/4) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be sent to the Senate. (2567/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u268	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 22) Yes 81 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 61 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2592/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2592/4) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u269	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 23) Yes 139 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2583/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2583/4) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Mr. Laurent Devin voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u270	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 24) Yes 135 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2570/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2570/4) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u271	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 25) Yes [[84]] Yes No. 54 No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 142 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be forwarded to the Senate. (2491-9) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be sent to the Senate. (2491/9) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u272	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote26) Yes 81 Yes No. [[8]] No Abstentions 53 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2599/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2599/5) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u273	Vote on Amendment No 8 by Ahmed Laaouej cs on Article 55. (2488/8) Vote on Amendment No 8 of Ahmed Laaouej cs to Rule 55. (2488/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 27) Yes [[60]] Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 55 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 55 was adopted. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u274	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 28) Yes [[80]] Yes No. [[22]] No Abstentions 39 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2488/9) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2488/9) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u275	This is the result of the secret vote on naturalizations. (2555/2) This is the result of the naturalization vote. (2555/2) Aantal stemmen 127 Number of voters Valid votes 123 Votes valables Perfect majority 62 Absolute majority All naturalisations have achieved the absolute majority. The proposal of naturalisation laws will be voted on shortly. All naturalizations obtained an absolute majority. The vote on the proposed naturalization laws will take place in a moment. The proposal of the Committee on Naturalizations consists of two parts (A and B) each containing several articles to be adopted. The Naturalisations Commission's proposal is divided into two parts (A and B) each containing several articles to be adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u276	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole of the proposal for a naturalisation law (Part A) will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole proposal for a naturalisation law (Part A) will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u277	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole of the proposal for a naturalisation law (Part B) will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole proposal for a naturalisation law (Part B) will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u278	We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal for naturalisation laws, the articles of which we have just discussed. We will proceed to vote on the proposed naturalization laws that we have just discussed. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u279	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 29) Yes 135 Yes No. 5 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the proposal of naturalisation law (Part A). It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed naturalization law (Part A). It will be subject to Royal Assent. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u280	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 30) Yes 133 Yes No. 5 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the proposal of naturalisation law (Part B). It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed naturalization law (Part B). It will be subject to Royal Assent. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Mrs Almaci, Mr Van Hecke and Mr Cheron voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u281	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 141 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u282	Goede collega's, While our voting machine is being converted into the special vote, I would like to address a few words to you now that we have come almost to the end of our work for this sitting. I think I can say that our assembly has once again had a well-filled parliamentary year, and at times it has been moving and moving sessions. I do not intend to overwhelm you with all kinds of data, especially with figures and statistics. However, I would like to point out that we have adopted important texts, including in the context of the reform of the judiciary. Important legislative work has also been carried out on the status of victims of acts of terrorism, the reform of inheritance law, transgendering and workable and manoeuvrable work. In my address to this House a year ago, I said that we would have to face important challenges in the area of collective security and the defence of our values. Unfortunately, the attacks in Paris, London, Manchester and elsewhere have brought painful confirmation. How many times have we not had to organize minutes of silence in memory of the too many victims of these cowardly attacks! During this session, we were confronted with tragedies, societal problems and criticism of our democratic system. And we have not avoided these issues; we have organized commissions of inquiry and passed important laws, and we have endeavoured to find solutions. It was indeed never seen: four parliamentary committees of inquiry. The Commission of Inquiry Terrorist Attacks, as well as Panama Papers, Criminal Transaction and Optima commissions. They've held hearings, conducted investigations, evaluated cases and asked for accountability. Thanks to their work, lessons could already be learned. This in-depth work is a long-term work, as it is lifted for three of the four committees of inquiry on the recess. This gives substance to a core idea of democracy and is one of the important tasks of the elected. I am well aware that this has brought a great deal of extra work, and I thank you for the commitment, flexibility and professionalism with which you have done this. Democracy thrives on public debates. Public opinion expects Parliament to be the focal point of the major social debates and to be crystallised there. These debates should be turbulent, long-winded or even controversial, as long as the principles of tolerance and dialogue are respected, and as long as the freedom of the other is respected. This hemisphere offers room for very varied reflections. Let us be wise enough to talk through the problems thoroughly and, without calling into question what is right, leave room for change. At a time when politics is often mocked and vilified, at a time when disinterest and distrust for politics are becoming increasingly evident in a broad section of the population, it is our duty to be transparent and accountable in the management of public affairs. Is there no greater threat to democracy than the indifference of citizens and the immobility of elected officials? At European level, in this year of the sixtieth anniversary of the Treaty of Rome, but also of the negotiations to leave the United Kingdom of the European Union and of the reflection on the future of Europe, I would like to commend the action of the government which has spared no effort, among other things in the Benelux context, in order to preserve a united and strong Europe for the benefit of all European citizens. I think I can say that our assembly fully embraces this constructive dynamic. In less than five months, the Chamber has been able to discuss the major issues at the top of the European agenda, with the President of the European Commission, Jean-Claude Juncker, but also with the Commissioners Sefcovic, Andriukaitis and Thyssen. But now we can ride and equip the belt with the intention of naturally charging the batteries. I would particularly like to thank our Registrar, who took up his duties at the beginning of this sitting. It was your first year, Mr. Registrar, you've been on a flawless course. I would also like to thank the staff and staff of our assembly. Thanks to their ability and continued commitment, we have been able to do our job in the best possible conditions. Some of the services of the Chamber were not under the market, and I would once again like to thank them most sincerely. I would also like to thank sincerely three senior officials who are retiring around this time. First of all, Mrs Nicole Barbar-Willendyck, present here in the traditional place behind the window. She is the director of the Interpretative Service and has a career of no less than 38 years in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u283	Thanks also to Mr Eric Vanderbeck, Director of the Integrated Report Service, which served the Chamber for 33 years.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u284	Also thanks to Luc De Loy Vermeulen, director of the Documentation and Archive department, after 31 years of service in this assembly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u285	I would also like to thank the journalists and press staff for their presence and the media attention for our work. Finally, I thank the military commander, recently promoted Brigadier General, and I congratulate him. I also thank the staff who ensure the security of the nation's palace. Colleagues, I wish you and your loved ones a pleasant, relaxing holiday. I am waiting for you all in this Chamber, well rested and full of courage on Thursday 21 September for the first plenary session. I also wish the government, the ministers and their collaborators an excellent and reviving holiday. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u286	Mr President, on behalf of all the Members, I should like to thank you. In these great moments of upheavals of democracy, recalling the very important work done by parliamentarians is indispensable to keep the curse away from the discredit and you have done it perfectly. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of all of us, I would also like to thank every member of this House. Without them, this centre of democracy would not be workable. I also want to thank the journalists – physically present or working remotely behind their tablet. We forgive them exceptionally for not systematically giving us reason. Finally, I would like to wish everyone an excellent well-deserved rest.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u287	I would remind you that, in accordance with article 195 of the Constitution, a proposal for a revision of the Constitution must be adopted by a two-thirds majority of the votes cast, provided that two-thirds of the members are present. I would remind you that, in accordance with Article 195 of the Constitution, a proposal to revise the Constitution may be adopted, provided that two thirds of its members are present and a two-thirds majority of its members adopt it. Vote on Amendment No 7 of Laurette Onkelinx cs on the only article. (2611/5) Vote on Amendment No 7 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to the single article. (2611/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 32) Yes 32 Yes No. 103 No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total 141 Total The quorum of those present has been reached. The 2/3 majority has not been reached. The amendment was therefore rejected. The quorum of the presences shall be reached. The majority of the 2/3 are not reached. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 6 by Barbara Pas cs on the sole article. (2611/5) Vote on the amendment enter n° 6 by Barbara Not cs to the single article. (2611/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 33) Yes 5 Yes No. 135 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 141 Total The quorum of those present has been reached. The 2/3 majority has not been reached. The amendment was therefore rejected. The quorum of the presences shall be reached. The majority of the 2/3 are not reached. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u288	I would remind you that, in accordance with article 195 of the Constitution, a proposal for a revision of the Constitution must be adopted by a two-thirds majority of the votes cast, provided that two-thirds of the members are present. I would remind you that, in accordance with Article 195 of the Constitution, a proposal to revise the Constitution may be adopted, provided that two thirds of its members are present and a two-thirds majority of its members adopt it. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u289	Mr President, I would like to justify my vote which will follow. As you will have the opportunity to realize, by pragmatism, my group has therefore chosen to support the extension of the time limit for police custody to 48 hours. However, symbolically, I chose to abstain. For us, I repeat, the intervention of an investigating judge should have been taken into account during the first 24-hour period, in accordance with the request of the investigating judges. I shall abstain from regretting the fact that, unfortunately, the investigating judges have not been heard.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-20-54-plenair-ip182x.u290	Are there any other requests for explanations of vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 34) Yes 128 Yes No. [[12]] No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 141 Total The quorum of those present has been reached. The 2/3 majority has been achieved. Consequently, the Court adopts the proposal to revise Article 12 of the Constitution. It will be sent to the Senate as a draft. (2611/6) The quorum of the presences shall be reached. The majority of the 2/3 are reached. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposal to revise article 12 of the Constitution. It will be forwarded as a bill to the Senate. (2611/6) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Have a nice vacation. I wish you a good holiday. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 21 September 2017 at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 21 September 2017 at 2.15 p.m.
