ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u2	At the request of Mr Ahmed Laaouej, on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session, I propose that the legislative proposal (Mr Laurent Devin, Mrs Fabienne Winckel and Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux, Christian Brotcorne and Benoît Friart) amend Article 87 of the Rules of Procedure in order to amend the structure of the canton of the Hainaut constituency, Nos 2673/1 to 6. At the request of Mr. Ahmed Laaouej, I propose that you place on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session the bill (Mr. Laurent Devin, Ms. Fabienne Winckel and Messrs. Jean-Jacques Flahaux, Christian Brotcorne and Benoît Friart) amending article 87 of the Electoral Code with a view to adapting the cantonal structure of the electoral district of Hainaut, Nos. 2673/1 to 6. Mrs Veerle Heeren will report orally. Mme Veerle Heeren fera report oral. Are you sure you don't mind? No observation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u3	Mr President, as I explained in the Conference of Presidents, we consider this to be an important issue, but for which there is no urgency. In fact, in the Walloon Parliament, the special decree which must indicate the direction we must take here has been postponed for 15 days. No discussion was organised in committee. As a result, the text has not even been tabled and, therefore, adopted by the Walloon Parliament. That is why we do not understand why there is an urgent need. My colleagues have already asked the question in committee. If a divergence were to emerge at a later stage, we would find ourselves facing enormous problems. I will not be longer, because I do not wish to pollute the debates before topical issues. I just wanted to clarify the reasons why, not only on the merits, but on the supposed urgency of the discussion, we will not support the request that has been made.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u4	Thank you, Mr. Nollet. However, the demand is there. We must therefore decide on the matter by sitting and rising. May I ask that those who approve the agenda change stand up now?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u5	First of all, Prime Minister, I would like to thank you for answering the questions and not running away from questions about Catalonia like Minister Jambon. Last Sunday the Catalan independence referendum took place, although according to negationist Rajoy this was not the case. The Spanish Prime Minister has really tried by all means to stop that referendum. Civilian policemen tried to provoke riots with Spanish flags between the Catalan protesters. The Guardia Civil used incredibly brutal violence against innocent civilians, who did not resist, but only wanted to cast their democratic vote. Defenseless voters were kicked, beaten and even shot. Almost 900 people were injured, with striking numbers of women and even elderly and children. Despite this violent repression, the Catalans have not been deterred: they are worthy and are going to vote massively. More than 90% of the participants in the referendum have opted for independence. Rajoy doesn't want to follow up on that. On the contrary, he is now threatening to invoke Article 155 and place the Catalan administration under full Spanish supervision. He still refuses any dialogue, while the Catalan government has repeatedly asked for it since 2006. In it he is even assisted by King Felipe, with an incredibly strange world, as we are used to in the office of king. Prime Minister, first of all, do you recognise the legitimacy and the outcome of the Catalan referendum last Sunday? Secondly, you were the first to rightly condemn the violence there. Will you also be the first to acknowledge Catalonia if, as announced, this Monday, October 9th, calls out its independence?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u6	Mr President, Prime Minister, last Sunday I followed the Spanish news closely. You were the first European leader to condemn police violence in the referendum organised by the Catalan government. Like you, we condemn unreservedly the violence worthy of a regime of another time that Spain suffered for almost forty years. In a democracy, you can never oppose the truncheons to the ballot box. But the time of indignation and emotion having passed, came the time of analysis and solutions. Unfortunately, a tweet won't be enough. Dialogue, advocated by the Spanish opposition for months against a deaf government, is undoubtedly the key to this crisis between the unity of a state and the separatists. Prime Minister, we cannot remain indifferent to the statements made in the press in recent days by your majority partners. Jan Peumans, President N-VA of the Flemish Parliament, declared to the press on 27 September that, when the results of the referendum in Catalonia were known, it would be a matter of bowing to it and recognizing Catalonia as an independent state. We also know the proximity of your Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior to Carles Puigdemont's party and the support of Mr Franken for the Catalan cause. Yes, there is cause for concern, especially as the Catalan Parliament is about to declare its independence on Monday. Prime Minister, do you confirm the unity of the Spanish State? Do you confirm the inviolability of Spain's borders? In summary, in this file, how far will you follow your N-VA nationalist partners? Do you recognize the result of the ballot box in the referendum on Sunday?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u7	Mr President, Prime Minister, I am a citizen and, like many others, I was astonished by the images of violence that television has passed on last Sunday. I tend to believe that the right to express itself cannot be challenged, let alone repressed. I also tend to believe that political dialogue is an essential condition for resolving a crisis, however serious it may be. I am also a lawyer and I believe in the Constitution, the rules governing the organization of public authorities. I believe in constitutional justice, here and elsewhere. Fortunately, I'm not alone. I heard yesterday Frans Timmermans, the European Commissioner, say the same thing to the European Parliament about the Spanish constitutional order. At the same time, Mr Timmermans was sweeping European or international mediation companies, which is easily understood because mediation would only aim to place Madrid and Barcelona on a level playing field. Third point, Prime Minister, I am Belgian. I'm not Spanish. I'm not Catalan. So I do not intend to interfere here with any interference in the internal affairs of a state that is not mine, but is your government, Prime Minister, Catalan? Does he declare himself Catalan like your Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior? I ask the question: when will you call a member of your government to order when he or she pronounces on the internal affairs of a country that is not his or her own? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u8	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the high voltage in Spain continues as a result of a mad nationalism. On the side of Madrid, the forces of order have used force, reminiscent of the darkest pages of Spanish history. People were pulled from the polling rooms by their hair. That is unacceptable. On the part of Catalonia, we have placed ourselves outside the legal and constitutional framework, and we have wanted to push through a referendum whose legitimacy can be called into question. Prime Minister, you have responded. This was in stark contrast to the leadership of the European Union, which held deafening silence. Sometimes we wonder where the European Commission is in such crises. Where is the moral and, above all, the political authority of the European Commission to raise the voice if necessary? Again, I think that's a missed opportunity. I come to a third element. If more regional autonomy is debated in the Member States, it can only be done in dialogue with mutual respect for each other. It can't be through a unilateral will decision, it doesn't work that way. It cannot be by speaking in five minutes of political courage. Allow me to refer to what two former statesmen, Jean-Luc Dehaene and Hugo Schiltz, have always rightly preached. They said that steps would be taken in the reform of the state, step by step. In this way, we have succeeded in achieving the most applied form of regionalisation in our country, unlike many other Member States of Europe. Anyone who claims otherwise, I invite you to mention one country in the European Union where the regional authorities have more resources than the federal government. Every time I went abroad, whether it was Germany, Scotland or Barcelona, I found that our model was the most effective in terms of state reform. We have done so in dialogue. In the absence of the European Union, my question is, since we have acquired experience in this area, whether our country can play an intermediate role in bringing the parties in Spain to the table so that reason, common sense and dialogue can be restored.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u9	Mr President, Prime Minister, it is quite surreal to hear that in this House the most ardent defenders of Catalonia's independence are in the ranks of fascists and the far right nationalist. When one knows the history of Catalonia and when one knows the role it played in opposition to Francoism, many Catalan democrats would be embarrassed to be supported by those who have today as their ascendants the allies of Francoism. It is true that the debate is challenging. Of course, it is not up to us to interfere in a choice which looks at a country represented in the European Union and which is an important ally of Belgium. I agree with what you said soberly on Sunday, Prime Minister. It cannot be accepted that state violence seeks to deny a democratic approach, however legally questionable it may be. But let it not be deduced that the legitimacy of a referendum procedure which, on the one hand, did not receive the support of a majority of participants and, on the other hand, at the organizational level, took place in a highly questionable manner. I dare to believe that the Belgian Government as a whole does not recognise the validity of this referendum procedure as organised by the Catalan authorities. We are in the European Union. We have a duty of solidarity there. I make it clear to Catalonia that I can understand its aspiration for great autonomy. But we cannot break this solidarity in a state because we are a rich region by denying what Europe's demand is to maintain solidarity between regions within the states itself, if there is to be solidarity between states as well. It is in this respect that we must say that we need to have a different reflection than that of nationalist selfishness. Those who want to advocate nationalist selfishness may have thought that in the debate between Catalonia and Spain they found support for their approach. That is not our choice, and I hope it will not be that of your government, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u10	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the reaction of the Spanish authorities to the referendum held by Catalonia in recent days is unacceptable. Police violence against Catalan citizens is unworthy of the democratic values defended by Europeans. On the other hand, Prime Minister, you were the first European leader to condemn this violence and we congratulate you on that. The current status quo characterized by extreme polarization between the Catalan and Spanish camps is not sustainable. We risk seeing an escalation that no one wants. In our view, only three options are available to overcome the impasse: dialogue, dialogue and dialogue. Because, yes, we are convinced that people of different cultures can come to agreements together. For, yes, we are convinced that regions of different languages can find agreements to live together peacefully. For, yes, we are convinced that within territories with different stories, it is possible, at some point, to build bridges rather than build walls. This creed is clearly part of our environmental DNA, part of our environmental political message. We strive to apply it every day and to advocate it at Belgian and European level. Mr Prime Minister, do you intend to advocate this demand for strong dialogue at European level so that the Catalan and Spanish governments finally sit at the negotiating table?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u11	Mr. President, Prime Minister, we have all seen these horrible images. People were beaten, wounded by the civilian guard. People were prevented from voting, for the simple reason that they wanted to exercise their democratic rights on an issue, on a Sunday morning. This took place in our European Union in 2017. These images were horrible, but the reaction of most of the European elite, although you were one of the exceptions, is scandalous. Yesterday, Mr Timmermans, Vice-President of the Commission, said that "the use of force had been proportional". Mr Juncker, President of the Commission, also tells us that this repression is an internal matter in Spain. Let us note these double standards. When it comes to criticising Latin America, Africa or Asia, we enter completely into the internal affairs of the various countries, but when it comes to Europe, we have seen nothing and we are silent. This hypocrisy is not acceptable, Prime Minister. The Catalan people and a large part of the Spanish people have shown this clearly, with massive movements, with mobilizations, with demonstrations. On 3 October, one of the country's largest political strikes took place, a political strike for which Mr Bourgeois and the N-VA applauded. Mr Bourgeois even said that he was jealous of the Catalans because of the political strike on 3 October. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have a scoop: the N-VA strongly supports political strikes. We take note of this for the next few weeks. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u12	Yeah, and it was a good strike. Everyone followed, both the companies and the unions. My questions are very clear, Prime Minister. A European summit will be held on 19 and 20 October. Do you intend to add to the agenda the condemnation of violence in Catalonia? On the other hand, I believe that the outcome lies in a negotiated solution, certainly not in separatism or competition between peoples. Will this issue be on the agenda of the European Summit or will the European Union once again be silent and occult?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u13	Mr Prime Minister, on Sunday you were one of the first to protest, and one of the few, quite rightly, against the disproportionate violence that took place in Catalonia. We thank you for that. Ladies and gentlemen, in a country with our tradition, we must respect people's aspirations for greater autonomy. None of us have any lessons to teach other countries how their democracy should function. We have a tradition. If we are faced with Community tensions, this will be done within a constitutional framework, within a democratic framework, within a legal framework. This means that we accept that the judiciary can also adjust the legislator and the government. It's easy to make punitive statements. It's easy to make one-sided decisions, but what does it do for people? What benefit do they have? It is much more difficult to sit down at the table with people who differ from one's point of view, to talk again, to frighten away, to reach an agreement in the end. That's our M.O. That is why last week the Flemish Parliament was able to approve an expenditure budget for Flanders of more than EUR 43 billion. By talking, talking and talking again. Now we're facing a state of escalation. Prime Minister, every government must do what it thinks it should do, including in our country, with respect for its own powers. However, allow me to refer to a draft note from the Flemish government dated 6 October 2016, a year ago, perhaps in temporary non-suspecto. It said how to deal with countries or states that had the ambition to become independent. The draft note of the Flemish government, signed by Prime Minister Geert Bourgeois, states: "That is possible. We need states that wish to become independent members of the EU. However, he makes it a fundamental condition for "when the process takes place in a legal and democratic manner'. Are those conditions fulfilled? How can we promote dialogue with the Catalans in Spain within the legal framework that applies there? What attitude will our country adopt when the situation escalates further and unilateral decisions are taken in that country?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u14	Mr Prime Minister, the great step forward in the system of representative democracy that has taken place throughout history, particularly in the territory of the European Union, lies in the fact that violence has been evacuated as an instrument for resolving political tensions. For the European democrats we are, violence is never acceptable, neither as violence against the institutions nor as citizen-oriented state violence. Prime Minister, the images we all saw last Sunday are terrible. I am pleased to be able to stress in this rostrum your courageous stance in denouncing this violence. This had to be done as these were not acceptable. I am also pleased with what you have said because I am convinced that you have saved the honour of the European Commission a little bit. His silence was deafening and not acceptable. Prime Minister, as a Liberal Democrat, I am committed to freedom of expression and pluralism of political opinion. I am also committed to respect for the rule of law, like all of us, and to respect for legal rules. Today, the conflicting relations between Madrid and Barcelona call for dialogue. But how can this dialogue be achieved? Prime Minister, have you had any contact? What do you think of how to achieve the renewal of this intra-Spanish dialogue between Madrid and Barcelona? Do you think that intervention by a third party, particularly the European institutions, can be a good solution? In the face of the fall-back that we have to see in various parts of the European territory, and in particular in the European Union, what do you think of the role that a State like ours could play? We have strong expertise and credibility in union federalism. Finally, what do you think of the search for a better balance between the Europe of States and, perhaps, a Europe of the Regions?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u15	Mr President, Prime Minister, Sunday's footage has shocked us. Police knocking on peaceful civilians. Was it the riot police in Egypt? Was it extreme right-wing militia in Putin's Russia? No, it happened right under our eyes in our own European Union. That's where it happened that old ladies were carried away with blood. The people were quiet but still rubber bullets were fired at them. There were 700 wounded. What about the European Union? She slipped a little uncomfortable back and forth. She didn't dare confront Madrid at the end of the day. You did, Prime Minister. Congratulations on that, with the compliments of our group. We must avoid an escalation. The dialogue is important and the rumours about the Spanish army that might be sent to Catalonia are, of course, very worrying. Europe must take on an intermediary role, both the European Union and the Council of Europe. We must intervene there. For Europe is a binding project which is opposed to polarisation and which is committed to peace and pacification, which is against violence, but also against nationalism. So let's prove that right now. Prime Minister, I'm gonna close up with something that's really gotta be off my chest. Our group explicitly wants to distance itself from those who abuse this politically for their separatist agenda, those who no longer dare to defend separatism in their own country but who seek it out in other countries in Europe. That is why it is very important for us to know whether the Belgian Government is going to take on this reconciling role at the right time. Will the Belgian Government always play the tune at the right time and not throw oil on the fire?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u16	Prime Minister, you have condemned the Spanish violence, thank you for that. Your government is now looking at the EU, but you are the EU, you are a member of the European Council of Ministers. I heard the EU speak yesterday through Commissioner Thyssen, who apparently wants to act as the representative of the Partido Popular. Mrs Thyssen said strange things. She said that state violence must be proportionate. I'm sorry, but the human rights criterion is much stricter. It must be absolutely necessary and that was certainly not the Spanish police brutality. So the European Union must also condemn this unconditionally, and you must insist on it. This is clearly contrary to Article 2 of the EU Treaty, which puts the rule of law and human rights first. Mrs Thyssen also said that Catalans must comply with the rule of law. Yes, of course they do, but what is the rule of law? That's not just anything that's in a law or a constitution somewhere. It's not that. If that is the rule of law, then Nazi Germany has complied perfectly with the rule of law. Nobody's gonna believe that around here. The rule of law is something completely different. It means that citizens have political rights vis-à-vis a government. A constitution conferring a political role on the army is contrary to the rule of law. A government that refuses to listen to the will of the people is contrary to the rule of law. What Mr Rajoy does, refusing to negotiate twenty times, is contrary to the rule of law. On the verge of deploying the army, it's in violation of the rule of law. That's a completely different interpretation. Moreover, Mrs Thyssen says that Catalans cannot declare their independence, because that is contrary to the Constitution. Mr Prime Minister, in all seriousness, you must now strongly condemn this. What did the Belgians do in 1830? Unfortunately, certainly, but they have declared their independence in violation of the fundamental law of 1815. So you must condemn that very strongly, because otherwise you are not, but Mark Rutte our prime minister. So you are obliged to do so. What will be your message at European level?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u17	Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I was in Catalonia last week as one of the international observers. With our team we have visited several offices. What we saw there was staggering. We never thought that the brutal violence of the Spanish Guardia Civil against innocent civilians would be so exuberant. All political groups and also the Prime Minister have acknowledged that the violence was excessive. I'm glad we're saying that here, unisono. Ladies and gentlemen, the referendum, which everyone is talking about now, does not just fall out of the sky. It is the result of a long, peaceful, broad democratic process. Let's not forget that. Puigdemont did not just say last week that a referendum would be organised. No, there were several debates, consultations and a referendum in 2014. In the 2015 regional elections, a parliamentary majority supported the principle of independence. After that, there were constantly peaceful demonstrations and actions. There's never been any morbid force or a drop of blood. What is the contrast between the peaceful behaviour of the Catalans and what is happening today? I'd be happy to do a fact check for you. It is true that this is not correctly represented, so I can testify. Firstly, it is claimed that only 42% of Catalans were going to vote. That's not right. There are 5.3 million Catalans who are entitled to vote. 2.3 million votes were processed and of some 770 000 Catalans the vote was never processed. Of the processed votes, 89 % was indeed pro, but one has to count the other. The result is much more than half of the Catalans who are going to vote. Secondly, Catalonia would take unilateral steps towards independence. How wrong is that? Anyone who knows the file knows that they have been looking for dialogue for years. Since Rajoy took office in 2011, the Catalan Government has already made a formal proposal for dialogue nineteen times. But what happened? Rajoy kept refusing and closing the door. Besides, King Felipe came to lock the door again. Prime Minister, I will not ask you today to acknowledge Catalonia. That would be premature, because it itself has not declared independence. That seems to me to be a little early, but I welcome your call for dialogue and your condemnation of violence. Would you like to cooperate? If so, how can we help to appoint a mediator to restore dialogue in the conflict?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, last week, Thursday and Friday, we met in the European Council with, on the agenda, the revival of the European project. The ambition is to make Europe more effective, closer to the concerns of citizens and to consider Europe as an idea of the past century based on the values of peace, security and freedom. Three days later, on Sunday, we were confronted with these images following this referendum, which was organised and considered illegal by the Spanish Constitutional Court. I was shocked. My reaction was first instinctive, intuitive. As Prime Minister, I thought it was important to give a clear signal. We are here in Europe and no violence is being used here. Violence is never an answer when faced with a political crisis. That's my strong conviction. My conviction on this subject is that we must mobilize with the countries of the European Union to encourage political dialogue. I must say very frankly, Mr Delperée, that I have a fundamental difference of view with you. Where you are talking about interference, I am talking about the determination to assert the virtues of political dialogue on European soil. I have also observed that on Monday, a few hours after the events, the European Commission reacted by taking its distance from violence and encouraging political dialogue. I agree with this appeal supported by the European Commission. To be specific, what initiatives have we taken over the last two or three days from my department? Firstly, we have had many discussions at European level. Yesterday I had a meeting with Donald Tusk, President of the European Council, I had a phone call with Jean-Claude Juncker and through our diplomatic advisers there were many conversations with other European countries. I find that everyone is on the same page at the moment. Firstly, no violence, because that is not a political answer and, secondly, we must do everything we can to encourage dialogue in Spain between the Catalan authorities and the Spanish Government. That must be an absolute priority. At the moment, I do not support international or European mediation. The priority for the next few days is to do everything possible to establish a dialogue between the Spanish Government and the Catalan authorities. On the basis of developments, we may have to evaluate the situation later. That is logical and obvious. A European summit will take place in October and a state of play will be established on the basis of new facts and new elements. I have heard the questions about recognising independence. I would like to be very clear in that regard. Of course, there is no question of speaking on a subject which, at this stage, is not raised. An initiative has been taken. It is contested by the Spanish authorities and by the Constitutional Court. We will see what future developments will consist of. I'll be happy. We cannot both want a dialogue and already prejudge the consequences of it. In my view, this is an extremely important complementary point: we will be very, very committed to a European framework to ensure that the rule of law in all its dimensions, democratic principles and the national legal order can be taken into account in this much-needed dialogue. A final word, Mr President, and this is also my personal conviction on the basis of our experience in Belgium. Over the last three decades, we have frequently had important fundamental differences of opinion in Belgium in this assembly about the future of our country. I think it is an honour that we have always managed to find solutions in a logic of dialogue, in accordance with our democratic principles. This seems to me to be an important lesson for the future, and it is also my conviction.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u19	Prime Minister, it is significant that Belgium should be taken as an example of good practice for the regions. I have three elements of reply. First of all, I can reassure Mrs Fernandez Fernandez. She referred to the tough language in the Flemish Parliament. The resolution adopted yesterday in the Flemish Parliament merely condemns the violence and does not take sides in the conflict between Spain and Catalonia. We called in our resolution for the referendum to be considered legitimate and for the result to be recognised. Moreover, we asked Catalonia to recognise if they proclaimed independence. This resolution was voted in the Flemish Parliament by all parties except ours. Secondly, the debate on constitutionality is secondary. Almost every state was created by stepping outside the constitution, so was Belgium. The will of a people is not limited by laws. In Catalonia, the difference between law and constitution, on the one hand, and democratic legitimacy, on the other, has become far too great. Finally, there is talk of dialogue and mediation. Catalonia has been asking for this for over ten years. Anyone who has followed it there a bit over the past few years knows that it is no longer about that. Today is about independence. Just as yesterday's shameful display in the European Parliament made it clear that Catalonia should not count on the European Union, your reply, Prime Minister, also made it clear that Catalonia should not count on this N-VA government.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u20	Prime Minister, obviously the will and expression of all peoples must be heard. When we talk about the future of Spain, it is with all the Spaniards that we must build it: with the Catalans but also with all the others, the Andalusians, the Asturias, the Galicians and the Basques. Prime Minister, I asked you for a shorter answer than a tweet; it was to say yes or no. I don't know if it's the badges of your N-VA colleagues or the flags in their corridors that scare you, but I didn't get an answer! By refusing to give me a clear answer today, you are weakening Spain's unity and opening up a dangerous path for the European Union, a dangerous precedent, especially when we know the separatist composition of your government. Europe has always been a peace project based on the diversity of our peoples but also and above all on the rule of law, in this and so many others.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u21	Prime Minister, I can't fail to show my surprise. You have just shown that, on the idea of dialogue, we did not have the same concern. Even as I said a quarter of an hour ago: "I tend to believe that dialogue is the most normal way to resolve a political crisis, however serious it may be". Where are the oppositions? Firstly, of course, I consider that if there is a political dialogue, it is first and foremost a political dialogue between Spaniards, within the Spanish State and within the framework of the democratic institutions of the Spanish State. Secondly, of course, this dialogue can also be extended to the European Union. But that was my unanswered question: what is the speech you are going to make at European level? Will this be the speech of the Deputy Prime Minister: "I am Catalan; I am adopting the position of Catalonia" or are you going to open discussion and dialogue? I also add that dialogue and mediation are two different things. Talking, talking, talking! Putting Madrid and Barcelona on an equal footing is a completely different institutional situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u22	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. First of all, and this is not new, I find that there is sometimes a little more courage in such matters when moving abroad than in their own country. I'm just establishing that. Secondly, I would like to say that the five minutes of political courage I have just mentioned, the muscle roll that proved to be completely unproductive in practice, has replaced 543 days of negotiations with results. Of course, that's the big difference. A result can only be obtained in a process of mutual dialogue. This will continue to be the case in Spain, I believe. Thirdly, here's what I'm gonna do. I heard the Flemish Prime Minister say this week that the Flemings should reflect more on Catalans in terms of pride, of values, of what they do in culture, in sport, in trade unions. When I look at the results achieved in our country following successive internal state reforms, without violence, without bloodshed, I say: Spain and Catalonia can take an example of Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u23	Prime Minister, allow me to think that you have paid tribute. You have paid tribute because you are the hostage, in your government, of a party that pushes you to stand on the margins of the European concert. You cannot say that you are going to ask the European Union to play a mediation role that it does not intend to play - and rightly so. It is not for the European Union to take an initiative on this, nor for us to arbitrate the Spanish constitutional order. This is not the role of our State, nor that of the European Union, in respect of the institutions of Europe and its States. You have tried to make believe that there would be a role that you could play, and that no other Head of Government or Head of State in the European Union claims to assume. I ask you, Prime Minister, to be overly careful. Your nationalist ally urges you to move beyond the European concert on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u24	Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. As you say, strengthening dialogue is obviously the key. But how can this dialogue be strengthened at European level? That is what is missing in your answer, and perhaps that is what is missing today at European level. How, without directly playing the mediator, can the parties be forced to sit around the table? On the other hand, I remain on my initial intervention. There's only dialogue. I almost want to say that dialogue and negotiation until exhaustion can bring solutions. You do have a particular role to play. You have highlighted our experience, our tradition in Belgium, from living together to Belgian, the agreements that we have been able to reach at the cost of many discussions, many exhaustions. This is the only way in which we can face a retreat from nationalism in the face of violence. I really encourage you to play this role.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u25	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to refer here to the words of the mayor of Barcelona, Ada Colau, who is a magnificent expression of what we think of the current situation in Spain: "I am not an independentist. I said it and I repeated it. We are in an unprecedented state crisis and the total blockage of relations between the Catalan and Spanish governments is very concerned. But what would be really sad would be that the bonds of fraternity and tenderness that unite us down, that unite people end up breaking up. They hit us. They beat us up. It won't be easy to forget. We need your support." And it is addressed to the peoples of Europe. "What has happened affects the fundamental rights and freedoms of all: Catalans, Spanish and Europeans. Today is Catalonia. Tomorrow, maybe it'll be any other place. If we normalize this without punishing, if we justify this, we are lost. We lose everything." Prime Minister, Belgium must intervene. We can't lose everything. Solidarity is needed in Europe. People's solidarity is needed for social justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u26	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. From your reply, I conclude that your course is the course of non-violence, the course of dialogue and the course of the legal framework. I hope that all those involved in Spain will follow this course and that sooner or later they will reach an agreement. Maybe I can point out to them a quote from one of your predecessors, the late Minister of State Jean-Luc Dehaene. He said in Belgium, and I think that is true of all the countries of the world: 'Our country is only workable if a majority does not unilaterally impose its will and a minority does not block the political system'. Only then can agreements be reached.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u27	Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. I thought I said that in the question I asked you, in any case, I heard it through your answer: the dialogue must, of course, start between Madrid and Barcelona. It's essential. If, at some point, the European Union must play a role, must intervene as a third-party operator, it is only after this dialogue has been established. I heard Mr Maingain say that given the composition of your government, of our majority, you would have put us out of the European concert by your words. Personally, I will tell you, and in reply to Mr.Maingain, that it is quite the opposite, Prime Minister. By your words, you also stated that you are the Prime Minister of a federal state that has been able to put in place effective federalism, thanks to the work that has been done and the expertise that we have been able to overcome. So, Prime Minister, far from being outside of the European concert, you may be – that is what we are asking – responding to the concerns expressed by the people. The European Commission must also hear the concerns of the regions and feel that Europe of the regions is the solution. I do not say so, but I think it may be necessary for the European Union to look for ways, in particular through the example that Federal Belgium has been able to give. I congratulate you, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u28	Mr President, Prime Minister, for the record, there is actually no dialogue between Spain and Catalonia at the moment. As far as conciliation is concerned, I think that we should be active with Europe. I would therefore ask the Belgian Government to initiate an initiative along these lines. After all, there is no doubt that the escalation will continue over the next few days and weeks. And honestly, I don't want to see those Sunday television footage anymore. With regard to your condemnation of police violence, I hope we have seen the start of a new Belgium, a new Belgium that is drawing red lines effectively. However, let us also deal with the refugees from Sudan. Or let it be the Hungarian Prime Minister Orban, who in July 2016 hacked into war refugees with severe police violence and put them back across the border with Serbia. Let it be about that, then. I didn't hear many shouting out loud at the time. I hope for the same kind of empathy when other human rights are violated, because after all, we are all human beings.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u29	Mr President, Prime Minister, I hear several Members referring to judgments of the Spanish Constitutional Court. Excuse me, but a court of law must consist of impartial and independent judges and the Spanish Constitutional Court really does not meet that criterion. Let us take a look at what serious courts say about this. The Supreme Court of Canada says in Quebeccase that if part of the territory wants to split up in a referendum, the other areas have an obligation to negotiate. Let that be exactly what Rajoy refused twenty times. In the Kosovo case of 2010, the International Court of Justice says that there are no rules of international law that would prevent an declaration of independence. Those are serious courts. The Catalan people spoke very clearly in the referendum. The Catalan Parliament effectively has the democratic legitimacy to proclaim that independence. And that's consistent with the rule of law. Catalans have political rights and Catalans can exercise those political rights. That is democracy, that is the rule of law, and that at least has the support of my group.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u30	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answers. I would like to draw attention to two important changes that I have personally been able to make in Catalonia. Firstly, in the past, Catalonia was a strong pro-European region, assuming that if Catalonia is in the European Union today, it would be so in the future. Today, these pro-European feelings melt like snow to the sun when we hear the statements of a Timmermans, who justify violence, and when we see the silent European institutions watching and controlling them. This is a first, important change in the landscape in Catalonia. Secondly, where there used to be a cheerful, optimistic, peaceful atmosphere, we were now at polling stations where thousands of people looked silently with fear in their eyes. They saw Franco's ghost come back. They have been awaiting dialogue for years. The Catalan Generalitat has been asking for dialogue for years, but it is Madrid that does not agree with that. Yes, there must be dialogue, but there must be two. That pressure must be put on Madrid today, not on Barcelona.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u31	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the socialist trade unions called for a strike in the public sector on 10 October. It is their intention to destroy public life in Belgium in this way. There will also be actions in the private sector, although they will be limited to a number of solidarity actions, except in Liège, where a general strike is also announced. When we look for the motives for the strike, we come up with statements by Rudy De Leeuw, Chris Reniers and Thierry Bodson. We can summarize the motives as follows. It is not good news for you, Mr Prime Minister, which is obviously a number of liars and is cheating on the people. Your government is taking away people's pensions, cutting social contributions and wages, creating instability in the labour market rather than job security, and it is also a bloodbath in the civil service, thereby jeopardising the provision of services. When I hear and read all this, of course, as a good citizen, I get very worried and I ask myself whether it is indeed true, or is it purely a mad syndicalism? I therefore have the following questions, Prime Minister. Is the unions' claim that the government is lying about pensions? Is it true that the adaptation of the Staff Regulations will lead to the loss of public service, as the trade unions say? What will next week's strike cost our society?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we want more prosperity. It is a mantra of our government that we think structural reforms are needed, not because of the pleasure of reform, but to achieve results and to improve the situation every day for families and businesses. We have indeed worked hard over the last three years to implement reforms. We have also given room for social dialogue on a very regular basis. In January, for example, an agreement was reached on IPA, which I am pleased with. That happened for the first time in several years. This can lead to more stability and serenity. We also want to reform our pension system to ensure that it will be sustainable in the future. That is also our responsibility, and there is no doubt about it. In short, I regret that next Tuesday the commuters and the students will be held hostage. In my opinion, the way in which one union deals with business is not correct and not pertinent. Through our actions and our reforms, we will show that we will achieve more results for a better life and a better situation for families and businesses.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u33	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your firm answer. I think that will reassure the people, after the panic-mongering of one particular union. The public will also realise that the government is doing a very good job and that the announced strike next Tuesday is not only premature but even pointless. As a bouncer, this. You made a comment about pensions. Now, Mr Rudy De Leeuw, who is retiring next year, can really be reassured. He will find that our government is not nibbling on people's pensions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u34	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we heard from the experts in the Justice and Health committees who came to present us with the state of implementation of anti-discrimination laws. These were adopted by a very large majority, some ten years ago, by our Parliament. Very important progress has been made, but some black spots have been highlighted. Among these difficulties is the fact that today it is recognized in law that language can be a ground of discrimination, although the Royal Decree to implement these provisions of the 2007 Act has never been drafted or published. I was very happy and surprised to hear my very honoured colleague Damien Thiéry announce that the MR was working hard to resolve this issue during this legislature. I thought he said it under emotion, but he posted it on Twitter and Facebook. This is therefore a clear political statement. A reaction appeared on his Twitter account: that of my colleague Ahmed Laaouej, who asked if a government agreement existed. This is, in fact, the subject of my question, Prime Minister. We know that this is a difficult and sensitive issue. It's not for nothing that things take a little time. Today, I would like to know whether this was a com' coup or whether there is now a will to succeed, and whether discussions are under way within your Government on this issue. It would be wise to have an answer in law to this sensitive question, so that this discrimination is finally recognized in practice and not only in law, not only for francophones in the periphery, but also for the Flemish in Brussels and for German speakers. I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u35	Mr President, Mr Dallemagne, my answer will be relatively brief. I welcome the ongoing parliamentary work, which focuses on the evaluation of the 2007 Act. In this context, I understood that Parliament had wanted to hear several experts and consult certain institutions. It is therefore legitimate for political parties, both majority and opposition, to express views in this regard. It is only after parliamentary proceedings have been concluded that, if necessary, the government will consider the House's recommendations. Secondly, we are very committed at European level to trying to improve democracy and the rule of law by combating all forms of discrimination. For the past two years, and this was not the case before, Foreign Minister Didier Reynders has been mobilising to convince our European counterparts to set up systematic monitoring in each country, with the aim of recording progress in the light of these democratic principles that are of great interest to us. Yes, we are mobilized to combat, as far as possible, all forms of discrimination. Mechanisms are already in place in many areas in our country. We must remain attentive to how we can continue to improve the rights of each other.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u36	Prime Minister, that's what I thought: it's a com' coup. Besides, it's a good attempt on your part to send the ball back to parliament. However, the latter has fulfilled its mission, since it has adopted this law and recognized language as a ground of discrimination. He is still awaiting the publication of a royal decree, which is not within his competence, but rather within that of the government. The only point I share with Mr Thiéry is that the ball is on your side: it is up to you to act. Of course, Parliament must ensure that you take steps in this direction. In any case, the initiative must come from you. And you know that very well. Secondly, you do well to recall that Belgium – in the person of the Minister for Foreign Affairs – takes its pilgrim stick and goes through the European Union to ask for the implementation of a mechanism that can verify whether rights and freedoms are respected in each Member State of the European Union. Indeed, it would seem to me much more legitimate in this role if it included in Belgian law the means of pursuing, where appropriate, discrimination based on language. This would enable Belgium to be more credible on these issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u37	Minister, in my municipality, in Tournai, the management of the residence, the Elysée, who is caring for people with disabilities, decided to dismiss nine full-time workers in order to replace them with sixteen part-time workers from the paramedical sector. It's a new technique: cutting heads to have more arms at a reduced price. Let's be clear! According to the elements in my possession and in view of the financial health of this institution, the brutality of this decision is unjustifiable, from a social, educational and economic point of view. It is therefore quite natural that the workers chose to denounce these unfair dismissals and, in the absence of social dialogue, a large part of these workers went on strike. Obviously, continuity of service must be ensured, and the dignity and well-being of the residents of the institution must be guaranteed. But, Minister, the way in which the minimum service was organized raises a lot of questions. Indeed, in the absence of agreement, management "unilaterally" questioned your own services in order to interpret the collective labour agreement in the sector. This led to the requisition, by police order, of strikers. Where this becomes an issue, Minister, is that there have been more requisitioned workers than workers present in normal times. This obviously raises questions about working conditions in this institution but also demonstrates that the aim was not simply to provide minimum service but to make the right to strike impossible. Worse still, workers on medical certificates before the strike movement were also requisitioned. Minister, on what legal basis did the requisition of educational staff take place? How was the requisitioned personnel selected? Why was French personnel not requisitioned? Before making your decision, did you hear the staff representatives? If not, why? How did you ensure that the requisitions did not disproportionately affect the right to collective action? Finally, how can you ensure that your interpretation of the collective labour agreement is not used by other employers to challenge the right to strike in this sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u38	Mr Delannois, you know very well that the right to strike is a fundamental right guaranteed in Belgium. It is very important to repeat it. You also know very well that in the area of activities of the residence the Elysée, there is a sectoral decision which defines the minimum benefits in the event of a strike. The number of requisitioned workers has been determined by my administration, as you have said, on the basis of this decision, taking into account the number of residents of the institute. The requisitions concerned the period from 27 September to 4 October. A first conciliation on the merits took place on 28 September and the employer refused to give up the dismissal, and the trade unions refused to suspend the strike. The conciliation office had to find that there was no agreement. The social conciliator in charge of the sector and this conflict is continuing his efforts to create the conditions for a successful conciliation. The strike continues, a new request for requisition has been made by the employer and - now, Mr. Delannois, listen carefully! - this time, the limited joint committee reached an agreement. Workers who are required to provide minimum benefits have been appointed by this Commission. You know very well, and I would point out to you, that it is composed of representatives of trade unions and employers' organizations and chaired by an official of my administration.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u39	Mr Minister, of course I do not agree with your interpretation. I think you made a mistake at the requisition. It's hard for you to recognize it, but it's no big deal because the facts speak for themselves. In fact, with the same situation, you are requisitioning last week and you are no longer doing so today. It's a wise decision, but why did you take another one last week? Minister, in my previous professional life, I have run an institution for people with mental disabilities. I know very well the role of director, which is important. However, the role of the educator is paramount. The relationship between the educator and the disabled person is fusional, passionate, fraternal and even parental. And, for sordid financial reasons or philosophical reasons relating to the right to strike, you cannot break this link. You can repair your mistake by taking a personal interest in the functioning of this institution. And you will certainly discover, in your capacity as Minister of Employment, very challenging things. I am sure you can have a different approach than that of educators as kleenex and people with disabilities as commodities! It's your moral duty.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u40	Minister, stuck in internal organisational problems, the low cost airline Ryanair announced that it had to cancel 18,000 flights between November 2017 and March 2018. In addition, the cancellation of some 2,000 flights in September and October. A number of passengers are left uncertain. On 18 September, following suspicions of non-compliance with European passenger law by airlines, you instructed your administration to carry out an in-depth investigation into Ryanair's practices. The aim was to ensure that consumers were not harmed. You're in charge of the Consumers, it's an important matter. The first evidence in the press indicates that Ryanair lacked professionalism and that, in the event of cancellation, the company did not properly inform passengers of their rights and only communicates in English, even if the reservation was made in another language. You have announced that you have brought an action for termination before the Brussels Commercial Court for unfair practices. It is a matter of putting an end to these dishonest shortcomings. In the event of acceptance of the complaint, the airline will be subject to a fine for any new infringements found. Minister, what are the complete results of your administration's in-depth investigation? In the face of some criticisms, what priority have you given to this issue? What's the timing? Did you contact Ryanair's management to ask for explanations? If so, has customer service been strengthened? Do you already know how many files are being processed? These multiple cancellations concern the whole of Europe. Have you taken initiatives at European level?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u41	Minister, Ryanair's credibility is seriously undermined and is even falling free. We're touching the limits of the low cost model. Indeed, how can we accept these ads repeatedly? How can we accept these successive waves of thousands of cancelled hussard flights? Consumer associations are outraged and Test-Achats has already received hundreds of complaints because hundreds of thousands of people are victims of these cancellations. Mr Minister, my group wishes first and foremost to express its support for the pilots in their efforts to achieve decent working conditions. For this crisis is first and foremost the result of terrible pressure on workers, wages and working rhythms. Today, travellers are taken hostage by a direction that wants to show that it will not bend. Minister, it is not acceptable for any airline to fail to comply with its obligations with respect to passenger information and compensation. There is no low cost in this area: consumer protection law applies to all! I am speaking to the Minister of Consumer Affairs. What have you undertaken to enforce these rights? It is known that today Ryanair does not properly inform its injured consumers of their rights to be compensated. In addition, Ryanair makes filing a complaint more difficult as the company imposes the use of English. What assessment do you make of the situation in order to work towards improving consumer rights?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u42	Mr Minister, at the beginning of September, air carrier Ryanair announced that it would cancel 50 flights a day until the end of October. For Belgium, this would amount to almost 300 cancelled flights. This week Ryanair announced that it would probably cancel a lot of flights until the end of April 2018. Although Ryanair promised to fully reimburse its passengers, questions remain about the information it provides to its customers about the cancellation and the possibilities for compensation. For example, Test-Achats already found that Ryanair does not provide information on the additional remuneration for passengers who are only two weeks before their flight are subject to a cancellation. Also, the reason for the cancellation would not have been correctly reported to the travellers. The English language may also be a problem for travellers who are not very powerful in this language. Over the past few months, it has appeared that airlines do not fully inform their passengers of the right to compensation and do not properly inform them. This certainly does not apply only to Ryanair. There are still airlines that are guilty of this. Today we hear from the press that you have brought Ryanair before the court of commerce for non-respect of legislation. My questions are as follows. Firstly, what infringements has your administration identified, in particular as regards the obligation to provide information to the consumer? Secondly, in addition to legal proceedings and sanctions, do you see any other way to encourage Ryanair and other airlines to comply with their information obligation? Thirdly, is action also envisaged at European level? I think it is not only up to the Belgian authorities to take action in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u43	Minister, many people who had booked a plane trip with Ryanair in September have had scared moments. They wondered whether they would still make it to their destination and whether or not their flight would continue. After all, suddenly there were ominous reports in the press that Ryanair would cancel many flights, even up to fifty flights a day. It took some time then before we knew exactly which flights would be effectively cancelled. The result is that for many people their flight did not continue. They saw their journey fall into the water or were unexpectedly faced with higher costs. The cancellations by Ryanair are due to a shortage of pilots. Pilots of course also have the right to leave and holidays. Ryanair did, however, know that. However, she kept booking cheap flights. As Minister of Consumer Affairs, you immediately intervened. You've had an investigation conducted by the Economic Inspectorate. That report shows that there are more problems after all. Ryanair simply flies in the way of consumer protection legislation. Not only do they inform passengers far too little, they also communicate in English with Dutch-speaking and French-speaking passengers. You were right to intervene immediately and decided that doing nothing was not an option. Yesterday, therefore, you rightly announced that you are taking Ryanair to court. It is now, of course, waiting to see what the court of commerce will decide. I therefore have two questions. You have rightly already taken two steps. What steps can you possibly take? When can we actually expect a ruling from the court of commerce? Secondly, it is, of course, not just a Belgian problem. Travellers also face these problems in other Member States. Have you had discussions with other Member States? Are you going to keep the European Commission informed?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u44	Minister, my colleagues have outlined the situation. Hundreds or even thousands of deletions are announced. You are in charge of consumer protection and it is in this context that I would like to question you. The confusion is total: advertisements, ad supplements, unknown rights, obligation to speak in English in order to have access to these rights. Admit it's a little complicated for users! They do not know when they will be able to leave, when they will be able to return or under what conditions. We come to a disrespect for the consumer and if you allow me to use a word that is furious in France: Ryanair, it's a mess! Minister, what are you going to do as Minister for Consumer Protection? How many complaints have been filed? We read that you also filed a complaint in the commercial court. Do you intend to conduct an assessment of the situation in order to draw lessons for the future? We must be able to reassure consumers and protect ourselves from a number of situations. The low cost model may have exceeded the limits and other companies may be tempted to do the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u45	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, following the massive cancellations announced by Ryanair, I have instructed the Economic Inspectorate to open an investigation into compliance with consumer protection legislation. I also asked for an assessment of the possibility of a cessation action against Ryanair. I have ordered two investigations, one before the summer holidays, because we were already informed about Ryanair's website and how the company charges additional costs to customers who, for example, want to sit next to each other. Following the announcement of the mass cancellations, I also requested an additional investigation from the Economic Inspectorate. The Economic Inspectorate has looked at this and has also asked Ryanair for a text and explanation. Ryanair has also been given the opportunity to adjust a number of cases. Today it appears that Ryanair has not done so or has not done so. As Minister of Consumer Affairs, I have the opportunity to bring an action for strike. On the basis of the information provided by the Economic Inspectorate, I have indeed given the order to bring an action for strike. This means, in concrete terms, that Ryanair must respect the legislation, which is clear and also applicable at European level, that it must inform the consumer correctly and provide a proper compensation for the cancellations. If that does not happen, a penalty payment can and will be pronounced by the court. Furthermore, the Economic Inspectorate also made a report and submitted it to the public prosecutor. This procedure now follows the appropriate path. I didn't get that report myself. It's now at the courthouse, where that report has been filed. There were also questions about Europe. I have here a letter from Commissioner Bulc to Ryanair dated 2 October. It states that Ryanair does not respect European regulations and regulations. It calls on Ryanair to take the necessary action by 6 October at the latest. Our claim for strike is based on the fact that there is a lack of professional commitment. The consumer has been fooled. Several applicants have also rightly pointed out that the website is very difficult to access when they want to know their rights to cancel tickets. These are the initiatives that we have launched to stop the activities of Ryanair which are not in conformity with consumer law as soon as possible. I hope the company does the same soon. It is not my intention to obtain a penalty payment from Ryanair, but rather to encourage the company to properly inform and treat the consumer. I hope that a solution will be found with the help of the European Commissioner, whom we will also contact, on the basis of what will be received next Friday, and on the basis of the minutes by the public prosecutor. Hopefully, the court of commerce will also rule on the claim for strike as soon as possible and, after all these actions at European level, Ryanair will not see that Belgium is not alone, Italy is also working on the issue and we will therefore contact that country as soon as possible, so that today rather than tomorrow, it will have to adapt and provide the consumer with the necessary information. Many MEPs in the hemisphere like to fly with Ryanair and count on customers to be properly informed when they purchase an airline ticket.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u46	Mr President, Minister, thank you for the comprehensiveness of your answer. The consumer was not respected in this situation. You did your job. You asked the Economic Inspectorate to conduct an investigation. Various actions take place on the ground. We'll follow the file, see what Ryanair's reaction is going to be. The European Commission's notice expires on 6 October tomorrow. We will see how this file will evolve. We shall return to the committee on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u47	Minister, thank you for your answers. Some citizens have worked all year long to be able to afford well-deserved vacations. Your actions must live up to their disappointment. I welcome the steps you have already taken, but I think we can go further. I will allow myself to come back to the committee on the subject. To denounce Ryanair's practices is also to denounce a social model with constant pressure on workers, their wages and working conditions. I think this is an opportunity to set a precedent. The consumer must feel protected, the worker must not feel harmed and the airlines, whatever they may be, must understand that these practices are not appropriate, either in Europe or Belgium. I will allow myself to come back to the subject in committee, with a question perhaps more in relation to your competence in employment.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u48	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. We find that Ryanair is a hard learner who refuses to adapt to the rules. It's good that a pv was delivered to the parquet. We are, of course, looking forward to the reaction of the public prosecutor. Contact with Europe is good. We are, of course, curious whether Ryanair will justify itself tomorrow and take measures to comply with the legislation. You can be sure that we will continue to follow up on this dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u49	Thank you, Minister, for your strong and determined response, but also, of course, for your very vigorous action. There was both the investigation of the Economic Inspectorate and the claim for strike, but you also wrote a letter to Europe. This seems very good to me. We can only hope that Ryanair responds correctly. We are, of course, looking forward to the ruling of the court of commerce. In the meantime, it is important that passengers are properly informed. As an airline passenger, there are many rights in the event of a cancellation. A complaint may be lodged with the airline itself. If, however, it fails to respond adequately or simply fails to respond within six weeks, then it is also possible to contact the national hotline and this falls within the scope of the FPS Mobility and therefore under Minister Bellot. I hope that you, as Minister of Consumer Affairs, will consult Minister Bellot so that passengers who complain to the national hotline will soon receive a correct reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u50	Minister, thank you for your answers. I have taken note of the actions and your commitments. However, I would like to stress that for many users Ryanair also sells dream, the dream of holidays. This dream suddenly turned into a nightmare; the consumer was not respected. You agreed to admit it, but I remind you that Ryanair is not above the law. It must apply all the laws of our country. I will therefore remain vigilant and ensure that your reaction is up to the spite of its customers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u51	Mr President, Minister, yesterday we woke up with Femina insurance. AG Insurance assures us against typical female cancers. We do not consider such insurance to be socially responsible in itself, just because, among other things, the 50-plussers are excluded. Everyone knows that women over 50 are the biggest risk group for breast cancer, for example. Women most in need of insurance are therefore discriminated against. Even apart from that, we believe that these private insurances are the best guarantee of a two-speed health care, because of course not every woman can afford such insurance. Minister, we see that more and more people are insuring themselves privately, including in health care. Another very striking example, which we were able to read recently, is dental care. I know that you and Minister De Block also have a number of questions with the Femina insurance, which is quite weedy in your position, but we do not hear you either about the real reason for the shift to private insurance. The real reason, Minister, is that people are feeling increasingly insecure, because this government is constantly saving 237 million in healthcare this year, as we have heard this week. People don't trust it anymore. The private candle jumps into that hole and the people go along because of their lack of trust. You, who have declared yourself the social face of this government, must be concerned about that, mustn't you? When will you turn the wheel? When will you invest in people again? That should sound familiar to your ears rather than getting them to grab private insurance and thus create a two-speed health care?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u52	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Jiroflée, you are opening a debate here on social security and you are asking what measures we are taking. This debate will be dealt with in detail in the discussion of the State of the Union and the budget that we have drawn up. I can assure you that not only me, but the whole government is concerned about the people, especially those who need our support. I assume that this debate can be held at another time. In fact, it is specifically about the insurance that was launched very recently by AG Insurance. In this regard, I quote the spokesman for AG Insurance: Women can freely use the amount for supporting extras, such as domestic help, beauty treatment, a weekend away... They can choose for themselves. These are women who are faced with breast cancer or other terrible diseases. My colleague De Block has also responded to this. On the one hand, we recognise that women who are confronted with this have real needs and need real assistance. On the other hand, the insurance that is now being offered only applies to women who have taken on them before they are 50 years old and who, unfortunately, are subsequently faced with the terrible illness. As you yourself have indicated, you can and must ask pertinent questions. The insurance must be closed before the age of 50 and then there is life insurance. If one closes them at 49 years, there is no problem, but after that it is no longer possible. This raises a lot of questions, especially since an important group of women is excluded in advance because they have exceeded the age limit. I asked the FSMA, the insurance watchdog, to look at this product as soon as possible and to check whether or not there is discrimination. The debate on social security, and certainly on avoiding a two-speed healthcare system, is very important, and I would like to deal with that, but I do not think that is possible within the time frame of a question. You can rest assured that Minister De Block and other colleagues of the government will be happy to engage in this debate with you at the place where that is possible, in the committee or in the discussion of the State of the Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u53	Mr Minister, whether it is a short or a long period of time, whether it is the State of the Union, the budget or these private insurances, the bottom line is that this government is disinvesting in health care and that people no longer have confidence in it. People need to regain security and know again that the government is taking care of them. But that's not what this government is doing. That's the bottomline and that's why people take out private insurance.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u54	Minister, after the attacks in Brussels and Zaventem and in November 2015 by IS, 18 proposals were made by the government. One of them was dealing with salafistic mosques. I've questioned you about this several times. The first time you told me we'd wait for the State Security report. We know that report by now. There was no action. The second time you told me that we were waiting for the National Security Council's plan, which is now there. There was still no action. Last week there was a new fact. The residence permit of the imam of the central mosque at the Cinquantenaire Park was not renewed. Again the question arises as to how far this is sufficient and whether we should not close this mosque as such, especially now that it appears that the Secretary-General of the World Moslem League, the former Minister of Islam of Saudi Arabia, has come to speak extensively in that central mosque. I fear that you will reply to me today that we are going to wait again, this time for the report of the Committee on Terrorism, which has been looking at this issue for some time. Minister, when are you going to act instead of waiting? We have the State Security report and the National Security Council report. Now it's coming from the committee. What is the Minister's position? What are you doing at this central mosque two years after the attacks, even though the imam's residence permit is not renewed, remains operational and can continue its activities?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u55	Mr Dewinter, as far as the Great Mosque is concerned, a distinction must be made between the staff, the people who take responsibility and come to preach, and the institution. As far as personnel are concerned, after the State Security report, we have asked the State Security to keep this under permanent supervision and to make an evaluation of it. This continuous monitoring has effectively resulted in the decision to withdraw his residence permit following the application for the renewal of the Imam's residence permit. That man appealed against it. We live in the rule of law, Mr Dewinter, and there are a number of legal rules that people can invoke. On 24 October, the Council for Foreign Affairs will give its ruling. If that appeal is dismissed, the man will be deported. If that appeal is confirmed by the Council of Foreign Ministers, then we, more specifically the Secretary of State, will immediately withdraw the residence permit, on the basis of the findings of the Council of Foreign Ministers' disputes, but with a consistent justification if this is necessary. The second debate is the debate around the institution, the mosque itself. According to State Security reports on which I can base myself, there are no indications of having to close them. I am following with great attention the debates in the parliamentary committee of inquiry and I am committed to effectively implementing the recommendations. I'd like to give you something to reflect on. What do we solve when we close the mosque and let the case go? I think it is a problem of people: who takes responsibility, who comes to preach, who gets a forum there? That is what we must focus our actions on. Whether we should close the mosque and cancel the concession is a difficult and complex debate. In this respect, I shall be delighted to implement the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u56	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I feared that it would go in that direction, that you would wait for the committee's recommendations. You're asking what we're solving by closing that mosque and you're telling us to focus on the people. Let us not be naive in that respect. The central mosque in the Cinquantenary Park is under the authority of the World Muslim League, an institution entirely owned by Saudi Arabia. Every year it is subsidised by many tens of millions of dollars, and its Secretary-General, who came to speak here in the central mosque in August, is none other than the former Minister of Islam of, as you had already understood, Saudi Arabia. The institution is salafistic and wahabistic, the money is salafistic and wahabistic. The people who make up the service there are dolls who can and will be replaced. As long as one does not approach the institution, as long as one lets the World Muslim League do his thing through the central mosque, it will unfortunately make little difference to indicate or not renew the residence permit of one imam and not much more than a patch on a wooden leg.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u57	Mr President, Minister, child maintenance is a wet finger job. That criticism of Justice is a criticism that arrives and is the conclusion of a study by the University of Antwerp which is getting quite a lot of attention in the press today. Minister, I have already questioned you and the Secretary of State several times about the problem of maintenance money, but also about extraordinary costs. Unfortunately, I note that, despite the many questions, we continue to be a bit eager on the spot. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the situation is as follows. In 2010, the law on the objectification of maintenance contributions came into force. With this law, three lines of action have been achieved. Firstly, the maintenance money is determined more objectively by our magistrates, by the fact that they now have to check eight elements before they reach the amount of maintenance money. Secondly, the generalisation of the wage delegation is also contained in that law. Thirdly, there is the definition of extraordinary costs. We also said in 2010 that this legislation had to be evaluated, that work had to be done step by step. That is why the 2010 law also states that a committee for maintenance contributions under your jurisdiction is needed, Minister. That committee should make annual recommendations and opinions, which should be put forward here in this House, through you. Well, to my knowledge, there has been no report from this committee to this day, and seven years later, no opinion has yet been delivered in this Chamber. Mr Minister, first of all, what is your response to the results of the University of Antwerp study? Secondly, how do you respond to the slope provided to work with lower and upper limits for maintenance contributions? Thirdly, where are we on this maintenance committee? Does that committee work? Are there any recommendations? Any advice? When will we be able to discuss a report in this house?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u58	Ms. Lahaye-Battheu, the Maintenance Contributions Committee was set up on 15 January 2016, when I was a minister, and had some work with her organisation. It then began to function effectively and on 22 September 2017 I handed over its annual report to the Chamber, which in turn delivered it to the members of the Justice Committee. A report has therefore been sent to the Committee on Justice. We're talking about wet fingering today. I agree that the establishment of maintenance contributions is still not a scientific matter and that there are different methods of calculation which lead to different results in identical cases, which is never good. The committee must make an exact contribution to harmonization and to the targeting of practices. The Committee makes recommendations for this in its report. These recommendations relate to the extraordinary costs and the clear distinction between children's needs. I have asked my administration, taking into account the different situation of children, which is very important in assessing costs and needs, to make recommendations for a draft law. I would therefore like, if necessary, to prepare a new preliminary draft law to improve these matters. Special proposals were also made by Mrs Claessens and Mr Mortelmans. It was also recommended in the past that the King should draw up a method of calculation to facilitate the application of the Committee's recommendations. The judge would then have to justify the method he followed if he deviated from the method laid down by the King. I think it is premature to prepare those royal decisions. I think it would be desirable for the committee to continue its work first. I will support her as much as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u59	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. Especially the last part is encouraging. Minister, you will continue to support the committee and also submit a draft law. Maintenance money and extraordinary costs interests to many Belgians. A lot of children grow up in two different families. Discussions about maintenance money and extraordinary costs are also emanating from those children. I believe that it is up to us, as legislators, to ensure that these discussions are removed as far as possible. We are now seven years after the 2010 law. I believe it is time to take up the evaluation and improve the law wherever possible. You will find a loyal partner in my group.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u60	Mr President, Madam Minister, we are at the dawn of winter and the establishment of a strategic electricity reserve is imperative, and it is even becoming urgent. While some are surfing the wave of global warming, we believe that it is more prudent to plan a reserve. We note that the government is experiencing difficulties negotiating medium-term contracts on the basis of favourable pricing, when it is only a reserve and not a recurring supply. I have also read, Madam Minister, that Belgium wants to maintain its renewable energy commitments for 2020. In this case, it is also far from an agreement, particularly for the equipment of 2,200 megawatts installed in the North Sea. The cost of energy is one of the essential parameters for making our country attractive to investors, but we do not see any long-term energy policy agenda emerging. The release of nuclear power is scheduled for 2025, i.e. less than eight years from now. Taking this into account, the first power plants are expected to cease production in 2022. In less than five years, almost 42% of our production will stop. Gas and steam plants produce 32% of our electricity requirements. In this area, we depend on the price of gas. It is not the few wind turbines that supply electricity only episodicly that will ensure that our electricity needs are met. Let us also consider the transition to hybrid or totally electric vehicles, which will greatly increase our needs. Will Belgium be a regular importer, accounting for almost 50% of its consumption? What will be the prices of our electricity? Today, the future is not good for Belgium in terms of energy and, in particular, energy prices. It can be seen that Wallonia is still under the blow of the photovoltaic earthquake, during which many households were grumbled. I come to my important question, Madam Minister. When will we have a coherent energy policy, without dogmatism, which will take into account the medium and long term, the reality of our society and globalisation, so that the cost of electricity is not an even greater burden, neither for households nor for societies? In either case, this price would be an unfortunate obstacle to economic recovery.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u61	Mr Carcaci, thank you for your question, which actually raises the problem of the energy pact. We look forward to building a strategic reserve for this winter. We are discussing with the European Commission's Competition DG whether or not this strategic reserve constitutes state aid. This is a usual discussion in many of the files that fall within my remit, for the sake of the simple reason that in this case, the previous government which had set up the strategic reserve mechanism, had not notified it to the European Commission. We will receive the answer in a few days and, by the end of October, a reserve will be set up. The negotiation with the last three wind farms will enable us, at the federal level, to assume our obligations with regard to burden sharing, as concluded in the 2015 agreement. In order to ensure that the federal share of 2,200 megawatts in the North Sea is present at the end of 2020 to meet these obligations, we are currently negotiating very constructively with these parks. We want to ensure that they are carried out while avoiding the swelling of the consumer's bill. Finally, you are talking about the medium- and long-term future and the exit of nuclear power. This is part of the ongoing negotiations between the Regions and the federal government. Ministers will meet again on the basis of a document produced by the regional and federal energy administrations platform CONCERE. This platform was responsible for aggregating the answers that more than a hundred stakeholders have given us to the 50 questions we asked them last May. On this basis, we will conclude by the end of the year, I hope, and I am determined to do so, the energy pact which will give us the guidelines for this country's energy policy in the medium and long term.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u62	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I encourage you to take all the necessary steps to avoid finding ourselves in a situation like the one we experienced a few years ago, when we were afraid of an energy vacuum. The year 2022 is already tomorrow; it is important to have a long-term vision that reassures households and businesses above all. I also think that it is necessary to pursue a policy that is somewhat reassuring for Engie. Indeed, we would not like until the end of nuclear power, the energy expert would say that he will no longer invest since one day the shop will have to be closed. This is a very dangerous reasoning in terms of energy supply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u63	Madam Minister, the energy policy of the current government, and of you in particular, is mainly to put nuclear energy forward. You almost slavishly follow the lobby of Electrabel. A good example of this was the ten-year extension of the lifetime of Objective I and Objective II. I remember very well how you and the people of Electrabel proudly announced the extension at a press conference. Fortunately, there was one encore that we were happy about. That encore was just like the Energy Transition Fund. The fund should serve to support renewable energy projects and thus shape the future after the core exit. Electrabel must also put 20 million euros in the fund every year, which should start in 2018. Mrs Dierick and Mrs Lalieux questioned you on Tuesday 3 October 2017 about the state of play of the fund and you replied that there are 29 registrations, but you did not have the report yet. Madam Minister, according to La Libre Belgique newspaper, 29 projects have been submitted and only one project would have been selected. Firstly, when extending the life of Objective I and Objective II, we tabled an amendment stating that the projects which would be subsidised from the Energy Transition Fund could not be Electrabel projects, because otherwise there would be a coat pocket operation. You had the amendment voted out. Is that one remaining project a project of Electrabel, as whispered in the corridors? I'd like to hear your answer to that question. Secondly, Madam Minister, the call for projects now suddenly appears as one of the criteria for nuclear energy. That was never supposed to happen. That was not the spirit of the law in 2015. The spirit was mainly to support the alternatives. Why was that element suddenly added? Finally, Madam Minister, we also read in the press that not your administration but a consultant did the selection. It is even suggested that it would be someone from the nuclear lobby. Madam Secretary, is that correct? Was the selection outsourced to a consultant? If that's true, then who's the consultant?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u64	Dear colleague, it is not necessary for Electrabel to become the only and only interlocutor in the field of energy. To hear you, we are entering a real paranoia in relation to Electrabel. First, the Energy Transition Fund is financed to the tune of €20 million per year for a total of €260 million over 10 years to promote and support innovative production and storage projects. This is the first time a government has created such funds with money from the energies of the past to promote the energies of the future. And this is the first time that a system has been developed, which will allow a call for tenders and academic societies or academies to submit projects that could be financed from this fund, thus giving us a research and development perspective. The system must make its diseases and adjustments. It was DG Energy that analysed all the dossiers. I can confirm that the case in question is not the only one that could be retained. In any case, it does not concern Electrabel at all. In addition, the financial consultant hired by DG Energy for the financial reading of proposals made by the offerors has nothing to do with the energy expert you quote from each line, to my knowledge.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u65	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u66	I don't know if they went that far in the paper. I may not have read carefully enough, but I'm listening! Secondly, the sentence on nuclear energy relates to innovative energy production. Indeed, all possible types of energy are examined from a research and development perspective. You know very well that nuclear research and development projects are far from being mature. They do not concern the production of electricity, which is in a state of extinction to date on Belgian territory, but many materials which may be developed in 40 or 50 years' time. With regard to the fund, I will come back to you in a few days, probably in a week or two, to inform you of the selected projects and the criteria that led to their choice.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u67	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary. Do I understand correctly that the projects that have been retained are not about nuclear energy? Can you confirm that?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u68	These are projects which I do not yet fully know the content of. I'll answer you later to reassure you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u69	We are very interested in that answer. It's kind of weird that La Libre writes that one project was selected, while apparently you don't know which project.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u70	This one, certainly not!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u71	Okay, but besides that one, there are other projects. We are very curious about the other two projects. Madam Minister, I would remind you that there is no nuclear energy in the 2015 law. In that law, energy alternatives are clearly sought. However, you state here that the transition fund will also be approved projects related to nuclear energy. What is more, in the call for projects there is even nuclear fusion and nuclear fission. That is absolutely not in accordance with the spirit of the 2015 law. We are therefore very curious to see which projects will be selected. I still have questions about the fact that the consultant was present in the evaluation of the projects. I'll definitely come back to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u72	Mr President, Minister, road safety is a priority for all the ministers in our country responsible for mobility and traffic, and thanks to the sixth state reform there are still many ministers with this competence. It is therefore important that the various ministers regularly consult each other. I'm glad that happens. The fragmentation of road safety competences does not make it easy for the public to know who to turn to. This applies to anyone who is professionally or not professionally connected with road safety. I am thinking of the training centres for driving licences, of the driving instructors, and of the towns and municipalities which have to deliver the driving licences. For them, it is sometimes a knack to know exactly how to do that. We do expect the administrations to know very well who can do what. The authorities at federal and regional level should know very well where the powers lie. There's a conflict there now. After all, the regions are competent to lay down the criteria for obtaining the licence, but at federal level it is decided when the licence is delivered. Getting a driving licence is a regional competence. You cannot collect a driving licence if you do not meet the criteria imposed by the Region. From October 1st, something will change that. The Flemish Region has made changes to the criteria for obtaining the driving licence. You believe that Flanders has exceeded its competence. You have therefore exhausted your legal possibilities and you have started a procedure with the Council of State. In the meantime, we know that this appeal procedure is not suspensive. It's already been decided. However, your administration has twice, and even three times this afternoon, a letter of this kind has been sent to all the municipalities saying that Flemish regulations should not be followed. Minister, do you know about those instructions, including this one this afternoon? What is your position on the matter? Do you not think that by directing a letter to the municipalities in this sense, your administration is creating even more confusion? Do you intend to clarify and withdraw the instructions?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u73	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Dumery has just outlined the situation. The current situation is as follows. Marie, a 17-year-old young lady from the municipality of Bevergem wants to get her driver's license, just like Matthias, 21 years old from the municipality of Evergem. They both successfully passed their theoretical driving test and want to obtain their provisional driving licence and then practice with a supervisor. When they arrive at the local office, the desk clerks have their hands in their hair, because they have now received five or six instructions on how to do it. During the summer, they were informed that a certificate had to be issued showing that the supervisor had been trained. Then there was an instruction from the FPS Mobility stating that they should not follow those rules because it belongs to the FOD's competence to deliver the rules relating to the provisional driving licence. On 29 September the Flemish government announced that they had to follow its guidelines. Last Monday, the FPS Mobility announced that they should not follow those rules. Tuesday, another email from the Flemish government announced that they had to follow those rules. Luckily, one day of rest has been given. Today there was a new instruction from the FPS Mobility stating that they may, but should not follow the rules, at least if I understood correctly, because this instruction dates from 14:30 and I have not yet looked at its content in detail. Minister, I may not have to tell you that this Belgian surrealism is at the top. It's not gonna help anybody. There is an urgent need for clarity. I don't expect you to answer that it's legal sister or anything. I expect you to answer the questions of Marie, Matthias and all the other students, their parents, the driving schools, the examination centres, because they need clarity.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u74	Mr President, there are two problems with the Flemish Government's decision of 9 June 2017. There is an institutional and legal problem, and at the same time a practical problem for which the citizen is the victim. Firstly, I have had to observe that the Flemish decision imposes new conditions for the issue of the driving licence. However, the Council of State is clear on this. The conditions for the issue of a provisional and a final licence are a federal jurisdiction. Not me, but the Council of State says so. In a democracy and in a rule of law, such opinions must be respected. The Hearing Officer does indeed consider that a suspension is not necessary, but he does not say anything about the content. The Council of State has already made clear who is competent. What you are asking about withdrawing the instructions of the FPS Mobility is turning the world upside down. There's no need to withdraw anything federally. On the basis of these opinions from the Council of State, Flanders should not have imposed the conditions and that is precisely the problem. Due to the unilateral Flemish action, there are several practical problems that will arise for citizens. What will Flanders do with someone who gets his driver's license in Brussels? What about a move? Are these people going to refuse their license? When will we get an answer to these questions? Only through dialogue between governments and by respecting the opinions of the Council of State will we find a solution. The current situation is of no benefit to anyone, especially the young citizens who want to obtain their driving licences. I did propose solutions to get out of the impasse. I want to be constructive and discuss proposals, but instead of entering into dialogue, a confrontation was chosen, which I very much regret.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u75	Minister, I take note of your answer. The amended legislation is indeed in force. At this point, she's still not destroyed. I think we are still living in the rule of law. You did what you thought you should do. You challenged the alleged excess of jurisdiction. You went to the Council of State. So far, however, you still have no answer on the substance. This means that the amended legislation is in force and must be respected, including by the federal administration. This needs to be clarified with regard to the population. An answer to that must be given. The Flemish government says this is a violation of federal loyalty. We can't accept that in this house, can we? Nor can our group support that either.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u76	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I note that you want to enter into dialogue and that you want to seek a solution in the interests of young candidates. I will not comment on who is legally right. The Council of State will decide on this within a certain time limit. Following the rejection of the suspension last week, the Flemish regulations are in force for the time being. There is therefore an urgent need for an instruction to be issued which is supported by both the federal and the Flemish public services. So I really call on you to come up with a clear instruction from the Flemish government and from the federal government together, so that there are no instructions side by side.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u77	We have come to the end of the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u78	By letter of 25 September 2017, the Flemish Parliament informed us that it had been declared lawful and complete at that day's meeting. By message of 25 September 2017, the Flemish Parliament announced that it had constituted itself at today's sitting.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u79	Without report Not related
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u80	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u81	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2589/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2589/3) The draft law contains 7 articles. The bill has 7 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u82	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u83	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 1008: Carina Van Cauter, Egbert Lachaert, Vincent Van Quickenborne, Sophie De Wit, Sarah Smeyers, Kristien Van Vaerenbergh - 1016: Veli Yüksel, Stefaan Vercamer, Leen Dierick, Raf Terwingen - 1045: Jan Penris, Barbara Pas, Filip Dewinter - 2446: Annick Lambrecht. I propose that a single discussion be devoted to these four legislative proposals. I propose that you devote one discussion to these four bills.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u84	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u85	Mr President, I would like to refer to my excellent written reports, which have been drawn up by the services.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u86	We thank the services and yourself.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u87	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a great deal has already been said about cracking. There is more written about it, not only in our house, but also outside, not to mention Ghent. However, there is also a lot of speech confusion. I'd like to start with that. Can one crack empty or also inhabited buildings? When is a building vacated? That is, of course, a very interesting question. A property can be empty, because it is being renovated or because the residents are on holiday, hospitalized or shopping. In those cases, is it empty or not? The confusion of speech becomes even greater, because the concept is understood by the people in a different way than in the legal world. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, there is a great deal of incomprehension if there is apparently no or insufficient action against the creaking of a building, and I am referring to the reading that is being given to it. Local authorities often say there's nothing they can do. Just think of a case where Roma had gained access to a home owned by an owner who was abroad. Afterwards, a week-long procedure was necessary to recover its own good. They've been spared. There's a house. It'll just be your house or property. Whether one wants it or not, whether it is legal or not, one does not get it explained to the people in the street. It may be about exceptions. I'm aware of that, too. One shouldn't be crazy about it. Some call it flame politics. The exceptions also appear to occur mainly in certain regions of the country. Some governments and cities do have solutions or can act quickly. Think of what has recently happened to a hotel in Brussels and what has happened in other places. The contrast in action could not be greater. However, we know cases in which occupiers or squatters are difficult to get out of a house, and that is not explained. The mayor of Ghent did try. He also did that in March 2017. It is not my intention at all, ladies and gentlemen, to bring Ghent politics to our house, but topicality hardly allows me not to do so. As Antwerp, I have been able to watch and listen to this from some distance, occasionally with some surprise. I see Mr Van Hecke is writing down. Green is very consistent in his criticism and comments. One may differ in vision and opinion, but the flipflop at sp.a on that theme, and the flipflop of the Ghent mayor in particular, has been quite remarkable at times. After all, what did he say in March 2017? He said that cracking should be possible for economic reasons. Those are his words. He meant, of course, the cracking of the vacant buildings, I know that, too. However, I would also like to disagree with that. It's not because my cell phone isn't being used, that someone else who can't buy a cell phone for economic reasons can take it. Empty state needs to be addressed and housing needs to be dealt with as well. I believe, however, that this is another debate. This is a competence of other local authorities. As far as the inhabited buildings are concerned, however, he has said something quite remarkable in a piece of March 2017. Again, I'm not trying to polarize. I'm an Antwerper, I'm not sensitive to the election campaign over there. I'm trying to keep it substantive. I read the quote of the mayor of Ghent, ladies and gentlemen, because I think it is important for the substantive discussion that follows. He says: "In the current state of law, inhabited houses can indeed be cracked and the procedure to expel occupiers from an inhabited house is still far too cumbersome. When the police find squatters in an inhabited building, the burglary has already been committed. So we can no longer act on the basis of the red-handed procedure. It is therefore up to the owner to ask the peace judge or the President of the Court of First Instance to have the squatter deported. A mayor can and should intervene only when public security is compromised and our police forces can only have a house evacuated by order of a judge. Breaking and entering is therefore not a legal ground on which the police can immediately deport the squatters. Moreover, the principle of trespassing protects the squatters from a police raid, which can only enter the house if she has a search warrant from the investigating judge." So the mayor has a very substantive argument for this. If we look at this argument very strictly, here and there we deal with it more creatively and differently and find a solution. He'll explain himself very carefully. The intrusion into an inhabited building or residential desecration is today, sorry, it is of course technically an immediate crime. That means once one is inside, the crime is over. The act of red tape applies when one sees it happening, when one sees it entering. Then the act of red tape applies and then one must indeed be very quick to act as a police force. After that, there is indeed a more difficult, longer procedure. Once again, there is a solution to this problem in other places. In many places, such as Ghent, that was not the case. This has caused a great deal of incomprehension on the part of the people who were confronted with it. The mayor doesn't just explain the content very well, he does more. He's making a call. He asks that the federal legislator please solve it for him, take a legislative initiative so that he can act against the cracking of inhabited buildings. Ladies and gentlemen, that is exactly what we have done. It was in the coalition agreement, that's what we're doing. But we're also running what was asked. You ask, we turn.perfectly applicable here. By turning over, I mean that we have worked out a legislative proposal by the majority. Initially it was about cracking empty buildings and afterwards we of course added the aspect of the inhabited buildings. This was also very essential for our group, as more and more cases emerged. Ladies and gentlemen, what is the vote now? Firstly, there is an accelerated civil procedure on the table. We have made it faster and more efficient. And let's be honest, it was necessary. Secondly, the crime of delinquency, which the mayor said was over once the act of red tape, he cannot do anything about it, we have expanded. We not only make the intrusion criminal, but also the occupation and further residence. Returning to the content of the quote I have just given, the act of red tape continues. If there are occupiers and they're staying there, the crime is still going on. The police can see that, that is the act, and indeed can put an end to it. The basic argument to prove that nothing can or should be done is in fact without an object. We have also criminalised the cracking of uninhabited and vacant buildings. We have not dealt with this as harshly as cracking inhabited buildings, as some claim. No, we have made a complaint of this kind. Why is that? If the owner doesn't care, the police won't act. If the owner lodges a complaint, the case changes and the whole procedure begins. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a balanced proposal. It was also not obvious to maintain a balance, because it is a difficult balance. There is, on the one hand, the right to property. Some argue that, on the other hand, there is also a right to live. How far does one go in that? However, we have built in safeguards. As I said earlier, with regard to the vacant buildings, it's a complaint crime. The police will not act until the owner lodges a complaint. A judicial review is foreseen. That's what I'm supposed to do. The ECHR is asking that. Some people know fundamental rights much better than I do, and maybe they can explain it a little better later. In any case, we must respect fundamental rights and we must indeed provide for a review. The OMCW is also notified so that a solution can be found. And yes, what about the right to live and the need to live, to which something has to be done, an argument that has been quoted very often? We know that there are squatters' manuals, among other things. It is clear that something needs to be done about the need for housing and the vacancy, but that is another debate. In addition, this falls within the competence of other authorities, not the Chamber. A policy in this area can be developed especially at local level, but not by allowing cracking, which undermines the right to property. With the first two measures, we are doing what the mayor asked in his opinion paper of March 2017. We have also done what certain victims, owners or residents of buildings, asked us to do. There were problems and the legislator now provides a framework. From now on, there is no umbrella that can be opened. There are no more excuses for not using these resources. However, we are now finding that it is still not good. We do our best, we are asked something, we are turning and it is not good yet. People are asking the federal legislature to make a law. Locally they voted against a motion to do just that. I don't understand. I don't follow anymore. People complain on the one hand that the law is still not there. Ladies and gentlemen, it took us a while to get here. There have been a lot of delays on the committee. We have heard in committee, among other things, from the sp.a group that this law is too strict. What have I heard these last few days? Too soft! I don't like it. I can't do anything with it. What is it now? Are we too soft or too strict? Maybe we're just balanced? It could be, couldn't it? I also hear people saying that as mayor they want more powers to act, armed administration to crack. I think that's a little weird. What a terro can't do for some, it seems, can crack for some. I'd like to think along. I've seen an amendment from Green. I found that consistent and in line with their position. An amendment was requested from a particular city, but I have not yet seen it. I can't wait to see what happens with that. I also hear that the police still can't do anything. For that, I go back to my substantive article, in which the mayor explains very well that the police could not do anything because there was no act of red tape. We've solved that now, haven't we? Today we are talking about the act of red tape and so the police can do something. I may be mistaken, but I still believe that mayors within their police area will help determine the priorities of their police forces. So make that a priority! That's how simple it can be. We must not complain, because we ourselves have a number of resources in our hands. Mr Lachaert, it is not for me to defend you. You're big enough and mature enough for that. But when I read earlier in a reply that Mr Lachaert should not deal with the College of Ghent, but with his work here, in the Chamber, I think the flipflop is complete. Then everything really gets messed up. Isn't this what we're doing here, our work in the Chamber? You're doing your job here in the Chamber, with your initiative that we've worked on together. That's what we're doing. There's a problem on site. An owner's asking for help. A mayor's asking for help. He is asking us for a legislative initiative, and we are doing so: we are providing help, we are providing a framework, we are providing a legislative solution. We've done our job. Then it is now up to that area, to the people who have asked for help, to do something about it now, of course. That's the idea. Get on it, no more excuses. For us, it's obvious that you don't touch other people's things. Ladies and gentlemen, it was not a simple dossier. They're not easy discussions. It's also something that's been alive for a long time. I am convinced that certain opinions will continue to differ. That's okay, that's okay. I really don't have a problem with that. I sincerely hope that this charade and those political games from Antwerp will stop. Is it perfect or might it improve? I don't know, because the work is never finished. What I particularly hope, ladies and gentlemen, is that this initiative and this legislation, and in particular the part that was essential for our group, namely to provide additional protection for owners of already inhabited buildings, will achieve our objective. That is really my practice: better protection, a better guarantee and a solution that could not be found everywhere today. The framework is there now, let us use it, because, ladies and gentlemen, it will be your home.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u88	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as an introduction, I would like to read the excerpt from La Libre Belgique published on 26 September: "This bill is not really necessary, says Olivier Hamal, president of the National Union of Owners and Co-owners. According to him, the current legislation allows for effective civil action to end squatting and to recover property. So, no, the National Union of Owners and Co-owners was not a plaintiff." Everything is said by someone who sat here a few years ago on the benches of the Reform Movement. He is not a communist, nor is he a champion of the collectivization of goods. Almost everything is said, since the bill is useless. It is a law of circumstance to respond to a diverse fact caricatured and mounted in pins. Otherwise, it would not arouse such indignation and shame, and I weigh my words! Why? Because this bill goes further. It attacks the men and women of our society who are, today, in the most extreme precarious situation, those who refuse, for their safety, for the safety of their children, to spend the night on the street. But the majority, once again, preferred to play on fears and fantasies rather than hear what all the actors on the ground have unanimously described: the extreme majority of occupations take place in buildings that have been left empty by the owners for many years, often even for reasons of pure speculation. Ladies and gentlemen, the reality in Brussels is this: for a homeless person, there are ten empty dwellings. In Belgium, more than one in three tenants are at risk of poverty. No one, both in this assembly and in the field, defends the exceptional cases of those who enter places and dwellings occupied by others, cases in which procedures in extreme urgency already exist. This has been repeated in committee. Let us be clear: the majority MR/N-VA did not come here to protect anyone's housing. This proposal is purely ideological, since it establishes private property as an absolute value. It is therefore a return to the 19th century, when the right to housing did not exist. In the meantime, our Constitution has evolved. To criminalize the occupation of a building is also to sanction the search for a fundamental right, the right to housing, as well as the right to live in dignity. Occupying an abandoned building does not meet the standards of human dignity. It is a precarious situation, a lesser evil to avoid street violence and eventually bounce back. Rather than being totally excluded, the occupants thus maintain a minimum social, cultural and economic link with society. While the occupation of an empty property is a matter of extreme necessity, considering that criminalization will lead to a deterrent effect bears witness to the worst ignorance. Peace and police judges don't say anything else. Let me quote once again: "The criminalization of squat behaviour does not add value to the solution of the problem encountered by the owners. On the contrary, the risk of abuse and collateral damage seems high." Colleagues, the absurdity and violence of the bill do not end there. For these field magistrates, the task now assigned to the King's prosecutor is a matter of gender confusion. A prosecutor is responsible for prosecuting offences, not resolving civil conflicts. The unprecedented power entrusted to him – and whose relevance is even questioned by the College of Attorneys General – fundamentally undermines the presumption of innocence and does not give the occupants time or the means to prepare their defence, in particular by using the legal aid office. Let us make it clear: tenants who do not have a written record of their lease and who, for example, pay their rent in cash are the collateral victims of the bill, which constitutes a double penalty for those whose misery is already exploited by sleep merchants. Because of their lack of scruples, they will not deprive themselves of the benefit of an irremediable decision taken without adversarial debate, and on a mere appearance of law. Another collateral victim is the right to strike and the occupation of a company by workers. At second reading, my colleague, Karine Lalieux, tabled an amendment that excludes from the scope of the law this legitimate protest movement. However, this amendment was rejected by the majority, further proof that, through this text, the majority is not afraid to trample on fundamental freedoms and those of workers who are no exception. I have said so; this proposal is also regrettable because it is counter-current to regional housing policies that are fighting vacant housing. Not later than last July, the mayor of Etterbeek, who was also the MR group leader in the Brussels Parliament, used a regional order to requisition a private building and house undocumented people there. Will the law that the majority is about to vote today prevent the mayors tomorrow from managing reality and field emergencies? That's a legitimate question I'm asking myself. The law will also break a positive dynamic that can exist between owners and untitled occupants, since often, thanks to associations that act as intermediaries, many cases have been regularized, in particular because the owners understood that there was a real interest for them: to avoid administrative taxes and degradation due to abandonment, while preserving the security of the building. These are all realities that demonstrate that a balance of interests must be struck on a case-by-case basis between the right of owners on the one hand and the right to housing, on the other hand, what this bill does not do to protect unoccupied buildings for many years. This law will be a source of injustice and human violence, until it is overturned by the Constitutional Court. For this reason, my group and I will vote against this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u89	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of a long legislative process. Indeed, if the tabling of the first proposals on the subject dates back to April 2015, it is only two and a half years later that we are finally called upon to vote on this proposal - originally provided for in the government agreement which provided that the rules on squatters would be reviewed in order to speed up expulsion - and it is indeed the parliamentary assembly that has taken up this matter. It seems to me that we can all recognize that the process has had a rich debate and has encountered the different stages of adopting an important text such as this. The text has given rise to reflection and has matured following numerous debates in the majority, but also in the Committee on Justice, a debate which has been adapted to incorporate a number of sensitivities. The opinion of the Council of State was also sought. It was also heard. Hearings were held no later than last July to listen to the return of the ground. Our group has been particularly attentive during these hearings and has incorporated some of the comments that have been the subject of amendments supported by the opposition. The original proposals were aimed only at criminalization. However, it seemed necessary, from the outset, to strengthen civil proceedings with the aim of achieving a balance between civil and criminal proceedings. It was the constant concern that guided the reflection of our group and the majority. Tomorrow, on the one hand, civil proceedings will be strengthened by accelerated deadlines and, on the other hand, the possibility of recourse to criminal proceedings will be introduced in parallel. For us, it was essential to ensure respect for the rights of everyone: of the owner, it is an obvious fact, but also of the squatter in his relationship to justice. That is why we have proposed an amendment providing, in the head of the squatter, for the possibility of being heard by the King's prosecutor and the justice of the peace, in accordance with the procedure. A possibility of conciliation has also been introduced. The hearings showed that in some cases a dialogue could take place between owners and squatters, leading to the conclusion of agreements of precarious occupation, which is already the case in some Brussels municipalities, including mine. When dealing with a case, the justice of the peace can therefore attempt to bring the parties together in order to forge a compromise. Hearings have also shown that there are very different profiles of squatters and different types of squatters. It is true that, for some, it is sometimes the only possibility not to be on the street. Even if occupation without title or right cannot be justified, in the current housing crisis, the occupation of empty buildings may sometimes meet an urgent social need. That is why we found it important to differentiate between the maximum time allowed to the squatter according to the quality of the owner of the property. That is why we distinguish between the private owner and the public authority. Where the justice of the peace considers that squatters must evacuate the property, he may, in certain circumstances, grant them a period longer than the legal period or that fixed by the order of the king's attorney, the interest of the owner being to recover the enjoyment of his property as soon as possible. During the hearings, it also appeared that people who used squat to simply have a roof, usually chose a property in which they had prospects of staying longer, that is, a property that has been unoccupied for a long period, which, unfortunately, often belongs to a public authority. It was therefore logical for us to introduce a longer period of time for property belonging to public authorities, since it bears greater responsibility for access to and management of housing, regardless of the level of power. It is therefore first and foremost up to the levels of power to find housing solutions. But it is not up to the private owner to bear the responsibility of the public authorities. For a private owner, the period of one month is maintained. Moreover, any occupation of private property does not necessarily result, as I have heard, from speculation. A lack of occupation can be justified by many legitimate reasons: an inheritance, an inability to renovate for lack of means, not to mention property in reality inhabited but empty for some time due to hospitalization or a long journey. In cases of abuse of a private owner, the public authorities are also not deprived of resources. To take just one example, at the local level, municipalities also have a fiscal lever that can deter speculators. It is not the chairman of the Justice Committee, Philippe Goffin - who makes use of it precisely to Crisnée - who will contradict me. In conclusion, what is essential at this stage is that tomorrow this proposal will strengthen our right. This will not be the only solution to tackle the problem of squats or to solve the difficulties of housing. But what we must remember at this stage is that we will have enriched our legislation with legal tools to address in an appropriate and detailed manner, on a case-by-case basis, different types of situations that may arise. Mr. President, I'm done. At all stages of the procedure, our will, that of my group, was to ensure the balance between two fundamental rights: the right to private property on the one hand and the right to housing on the other. While article 1 of Protocol 1 of the European Convention on Human Rights guarantees the right to property, it provides that every natural person has the right to respect for his or her property. I don't think it's a coincidence. "The first of human rights is individual freedom, freedom of property, freedom of thought, freedom of work." I assure you, Mrs Özen, it was not Mr Hamal who said that, it was Jean Jaurès! As for the right to housing, if it applies to the squatter, it also applies to the owner. [[Brouhahaha]] Mr Laaouej, this debate therefore deserves nuance and not shouting! That's what we've been working on patiently, collectively. [[Brouhahaha]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u90	Yes, from the shade, Mrs. Lalieux! And so, as he had committed himself to it, our group will support this text. Thank you for your somewhat dissipated attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u91	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the cracking of a house today is not specifically prohibited by law. The owner can only request the expulsion of the squatters by civil procedure, but in the meantime the illegal resident is protected by the right to the inviolability of the home. It is what we want to do with this bill. Recently, in Ghent, some examples came in the actuality of inhabited buildings occupied by squatters, for example at a hospital stay, a holiday or an employment abroad. In the case of residential buildings, police forces must be able to intervene immediately to effectively enforce the house peace and the inviolability of the property. Unfortunately, this cannot be guaranteed by the current legal framework. Pursuant to Article 439 of the Criminal Code, only the person entering an occupied property is punishable. The person who has entered, occupied and resided in the property in question is not covered by this criminal offence. As my fellow Members have just mentioned, the existing law must, as it were, be caught in the act before the police can intervene. Ladies and gentlemen, the current legislative proposal has gone a long way. My initial proposal dates from 2015 and discussions started in May 2016. In other words, we have taken our time to deliver a good and balanced piece of work. There have been hearings with all kinds of experts, representatives of peace judges, the tenant platform and so on. We have amended our initial proposal. There is absolutely no problem in admitting that in this chair. It is not possible for people to hide in bad faith behind the right to live and the immunity of the dwelling which they themselves have violated. We make the clear political choice not to distinguish between good and bad squatters, as Mr van Groen and the sp.a do in this matter. Colleagues, cracking cannot be a solution for us to overcome the shortage of social housing. Cracking uninhabited buildings is not limited to buildings that are empty for speculative reasons. These are also buildings that are empty for renovation or rental purposes. That is why we have made the clear choice to extend our arrangement to all buildings, inhabited or not inhabited. We want to cover the grey area in the current legislation, which I have just mentioned, regardless of whether the building is inhabited or not. Ladies and gentlemen, we have tried to find a balanced solution to protect property rights, but with respect for the principle of the right to live. To date, only civil proceedings have been possible. However, it was insufficient. In criminal matters, there was only a regulation on the delinquency of buildings already inhabited. There was clearly a gap in uninhabited buildings. We've filled it out now. At the same time, we have tried to make civil proceedings workable by providing for a specific expulsion procedure, regardless of rental conflicts. It also provides for clear deadlines to guarantee the rights of each party. In many cases, the civil approach will be faster, but for some poignant situations where sanctions are also appropriate, there is now the criminal approach as a stick behind the door. Persecution is only possible after a complaint by the person holding a title or a right to the property in question. Therefore, some responsibility is also placed with the owner of the property. Colleagues, in response to cases in Ghent, the mayor of Ghent stated that he wanted to perform, but he could not legally do so. There was no law to turn off squatters. In his view, Parliament and the current majority did not assume their responsibilities to resolve the problem. Colleagues, he maintained that until the law was passed. Then the mayor of Ghent changed the rifle shoulder. Now the mayor of Ghent throws out that the approved law is not a solution for him. Ladies and gentlemen, the law on which we are voting today is not intended to extend the powers of mayors. The law on which we are voting today is to arm judicial authorities, on the one hand, and owners, on the other, so that they can act against squatters. We believe that the path of justice is and will continue to be the best way to act in private disputes and to judge the claims of owners or users to private homes. I should also like to point out here that because of the sp.a., the party and group of the mayor of Ghent, we have not seen any concrete proposals to extend the powers of the mayor in the new municipal law. So if he is in favour of new powers in this area, I invite the sp.a to take initiatives to that end. Colleagues, that does not, of course, mean that a mayor has no responsibility. He or she has a clear responsibility in the area of housing. There is a clear responsibility for the mayor to provide capacity for social housing and shelter for homeless people. Article 23 of the Constitution, which lays down the principle of residence, should be implemented, which is primarily a competence of the local level. This legislative proposal is seen as a link in a broader chain approach, including in the fight against poverty and in the fight for shelter for homeless people through, among other things, the OCMW. Ladies and gentlemen, it has to be said. I've spent 11 years in my city experiencing a tolerance policy on cracking. If this majority, if this Parliament succeeds in making a law to tackle cracks, then the Mayor of Ghent says that that law is not strict enough. Then I wonder what the mayor's group in this House is doing. What does the sp.a want when it comes to cracking? That is still not clear to me. We have had a lot of debates in committee, we have had a second reading, but what the sp.a. wants to do with this problem is not clear to me. Mrs Temmerman, I am curious to hear your views immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u92	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u93	That is not the point, Mr Calvo. I'm not a list leader in Ghent. For la petite histoire, a question to the colleagues from the sp.a and also the PS. If this is a serious problem, especially in Ghent, why haven't you taken responsibility for the past 20 to 25 years? Why have you blocked all the proposals from our predecessors here? That is a very specific question to the sp.a. I hope you will have an answer to this later. The last fact in this matter is that the mayor of Ghent wishes the prosecutor to give a ruling within 12 hours. Apart from the legal issue, I think that this ignores what is practically feasible. I must try to understand the opposition. On the one hand, the opposition complains to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and, on the other hand, it has been stressed that we are putting extra workload on the prosecutors with the present proposal, but on the other hand, such matters should be resolved within 12 hours. In committee it was said that this is not a priority for the prosecutors and that was endorsed. However, the Mayor of Ghent believes that it should be a top priority, because he believes that squatters should leave within 12 hours. Ladies and gentlemen, I can't follow anymore. In case of a squat in an uninhabited building, different findings must be made. I believe that 12 hours is not enough for such checks. I do not want to go too far in the field of justice, but I think 12 hours is a much too short time for prosecutors. That is why, with respect, of course, for the concerns of associations of poor people, we have provided for a maximum of eight days. However, this does not mean that, in clear cases, the prosecutor must wait eight days to issue and issue an expulsion order. I have the impression that Ghent's city administration is now faced with decisiveness, but that the blame for the years of policy in Ghent is to blame for the current majority in Parliament. We have worked out a proposal with reasonable deadlines. It takes account, on the one hand, of the constitutional right of residence and, on the other hand, of the right of ownership.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u94	Mr Yüksel, before you go into that section, Mr Thiébaut wishes to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u95	Mr President, I find that these debates are becoming a kind of Gypsy mini-municipal council. Let's not talk too much about Ghent! Gantois are numerous here – aren't they, Mr. President? The mayor of Ghent has been mentioned and criticized on several occasions. Not sitting here, he can't defend himself. I think you should change ground and stay at the federal level.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u96	I would have expected substantive arguments from the PS, but I didn't get them. Ghent is the most beautiful city in Flanders and the third city of... [[...]] [[: (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u97	Dear colleague, Ghent is a very beautiful city, where I like to go, and which is very well managed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u98	Mr Calvo, I do not want to repeat the debate in the city council, but the fickleness and ping-ponging of the mayor also have to do with the attitude of your party in the city council of Ghent and the majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u99	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u100	Either you ask for the floor for an interruption, or Mr Yüksel speaks.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u101	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this is a social problem. We are trying to solve a real problem with this legislative proposal, whereby, on the one hand, we apply the right to property and deal with desecration and squatting, and, on the other hand, we respect the right to live. I hope that a large majority will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u102	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to begin by thanking all those who have contributed constructively to the debate in committee and to the fact that we are here today in plenary to vote on this bill, on which a lot of ink has been flowing for several years and to which many words have been put. This starts with the cabinet of the minister, the minister himself and the fellow members of the majority, but also with those in the opposition who have constructively given their arguments, each from his ideological point of view. You are right, Mr Thiébaut, to say that we should not repeat Ghent City Council, but the reason for the whole discussion was an appeal from the Mayor of Ghent. In other cities this problem also occurs and there are equally discussions about the cracking of long vacant buildings. However, the situation in Ghent over the last few years is special and has justified a new legislative initiative, in particular the occupation of sometimes really inhabited buildings up to vacant vacant buildings which have recently been released or not so long. That's something that apparently doesn't exist in the rest of the country. Moreover, we are confronted with the fact that the Ghent police, unlike in other zones, strictly interpret the law, in the sense that once squatters entered a building and it could not be established in the act that the locks have changed and the squatters have installed themselves shortly afterwards, the police say they cannot act because that would be a trespass. So that's where the role of the police stops. What we are doing now is responding to the appeal of the mayor of Ghent, who himself said he could do nothing and that the federal government had to give him a law that criminalizes cracking. The first initiatives were taken at the time by the current first ships of the city of Ghent, Mathias De Clercq. He had already submitted a bill in the previous legislature. Our group has retabled it. Meanwhile, Mr Veli Yüksel also had a proposal, as did members of other parties. So there was a growing support to really get started and to make it clear that there can be no discussion about inhabited buildings. If an occupied building is to be moved in, and if it is or is not established in the act, then it is obvious that the police must intervene immediately and be able to pick up and take the squatters away. There's actually no discussion about that. Gradually, few parties in the Justice Committee questioned that. Certainly on the Flemish side I have not heard anyone questioning that. An ideologically charged debate concerns the uninhabited buildings. I have every respect for those who do not share our opinion, but I would like them to remain consistent. I will not say that the sp.a in committee has not been consistent, but for me it has gone wrong outside the Justice Committee. My annoyance comes from there. A perfectly valid ideological debate took place in the Justice Committee. When it comes to cracking, there are different fundamental rights. You will understand that for me as a liberal, ownership is an important principle, but there are also other fundamental rights. We know that our Constitution also includes the right to housing. The ECHR also prescribes this. Another important fundamental right is the right of access to justice. We cannot ignore that, because it is also contained in the European Convention on Human Rights. Gradually, in a proper debate in the Committee on Justice, we sought a fair balance between the different fundamental rights that are important in this respect. The principle of ownership is now respected by criminalising all forms of cracking. However, entering an inhabited house and installing yourself in the living room is something other than entering a long standing industrial building, out of necessity, because one has no roof over the head. Those are other situations. Of course, we will not be too strict about this. If we mean something by this law, it is, of course, rather aimed at homes that have recently been released and not at homes where owners themselves go wrong and allow some blindfolding to avoid emptiness charges. Just to make that nuance possible, the law has also introduced a nuance in criminalisation. Penal sanctions are lower at an empty building from the outset, but if the prosecutor, after a complaint by the person who has the right or the title to use the property, gives the order to leave, and if he ignores it, then the police must also be able to act. We do respect a period in which we can go to court, so that we also comply with the ECHR. I believe that we have found a very fair balance between the different fundamental rights. I am also convinced, in spite of what the mayor of Ghent says, that if we proceed, our law will be destroyed by the Constitutional Court. Then where are we? Then we have created a law to provide a solution, which will eventually be destroyed. There's no point. If one makes a law that is contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights, which does not provide for access to justice in uninhabited premises in this case, there is less urgency than I believe that it will not be possible to justify it before the Constitutional Court. I have to refer to the situation in the Netherlands. In the Netherlands, the law has already been amended three times on criminalising squatting. There, too, there have been proceedings until the end of the European Convention on Human Rights. The Supreme Court has ruled there that a minimum of seven days should be allowed if there is no urgency. In an inhabited building there is urgency, but in an uninhabited building less. If we do not provide for that period, then the law is contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights. I would like to and, of course, I think the right of ownership as a liberal is extremely important, but I am not going to adopt a law that violates the European Convention on Human Rights. If a socialist wants to argue for that, I am not, but I am not going to do so as a liberal. Having said that, I think we have found a good balance. We are also working at two levels, namely the criminal law level which I believe is robust and well organised, and the civil procedure, which is strengthened without touching the existing procedures. Mr Van Hecke said a few times in committee, also from his experience as a lawyer in the past, that the current procedures already offer a lot of possibilities, such as the interim proceedings. For example, that runs smoothly with some judges in Ghent, but that is not the case everywhere. We are not doing anything about it. We are only going to strengthen the new section of the criminal justice section and the situation of the shorter procedure in the court of peace. An important point of profit for the citizen facing this situation as a victim is that he now has the choice between a civil trial with a lawyer he has to engage and costs he has to make, and just file a complaint with the police. That is a fundamental difference from the current situation. What the mayor of Ghent told me about that is actually disturbingly populist. He said that those involved will still have to carry out an expulsion procedure, but that is not correct. One can just file a complaint with the police. The prosecutor will have to do his job in principle. I have also understood from the opinion of the College of Attorneys General that they are not very enthusiastic about putting time and energy into it. But I think that this is a damn great priority, especially in the regions where the problem arises. A complaint can therefore be lodged. Then the Attorney General and the police go to work. So that's a big difference. Moreover, logic is also reversed. It is no longer the victim who has to go to court, but the squatters of an uninhabited property who have to go to court to prove that they had a reason to be there; they must therefore justify their behaviour. That is a very different logic and a strong improvement in the position of the victim compared to today. I am somewhat disappointed by the following. I admit that I have been punished in recent days in my criticism of the mayor of Ghent, but you will forgive me. We had a proper debate here in Parliament in committee, with the different fundamental rights next to each other. Gradually, together with the opposition, we reached a catharsis with regard to the inhabited buildings; we were largely in agreement on this. With regard to the uninhabited buildings, we will not agree for ideological reasons. And then we read that the mayor, who was a requesting party to this law, states in the press that this is useless, that he cannot do anything with it, that he is not going to do anything with it. I'm sorry, but I'll just get mad. That's a sample of populism I've rarely seen. He gets his appetite and then he explains something like that in the press. In fact, I think that is a middle-point with regard to this Parliament. That's unworthy of a mayor. I hope that the debate can continue well. You will understand that my group, together with the majority parties, with whom we have discussed well together, and with the Minister and his cabinet, with whom we have worked out a good text, will fully support this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u103	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the problem of house creaking has kept us under the spell of such a year. It is therefore a case in which, on the one hand, the right of ownership of legitimate owners must be carefully weighed against, on the other hand, the often unlawfully acquired right of residence, as well as the violation of the privacy of the family home. Across party boundaries, there has been a consensus for a long time to address a number of very serious cases where people illegally enter someone's home. In addition, those intruders continue to occupy the residence and thus creak. That was and remains unacceptable for sp.a. Earlier this year, and until recently, you, Minister Geens, and a number of fellow Members of Parliament, informed us that with the current legislation, mayors, judges and police forces on residential buildings already have sufficient legislative means to intervene quickly and efficiently in the event of cracking. Subsequently, several attempts have been made by the majority to tighten up the criminalisation and treatment of the cracking of inhabited buildings. This is therefore somewhat contrary to the earlier statement that the legislation in force at the time was sufficient. In addition, some majority parties have considered that the cracking of speculatively empty dumps and long vacant factory buildings or abandoned schools should also be included in the new legislation. We think that's a bridge too far. I'll explain later. First, I'd like to talk about the cracking of inhabited buildings. The files which were particularly affected by the prisons in the Ghent region showed that the interpretation of the existing legislation was indeed inadequate. The mayor of Ghent was always bound by strict objection and decision-making times, which lasted eight days and sometimes even longer, through the existing expulsion procedures, by the fact that only caught in the act. In addition, most of the time, one had to deal with the not so clear interpretation of what is actually a dwelling and how broad one can go with the term "capture" in the act of the act. When we in the Committee on Justice discussed the definition of a home quite extensively, we quickly stumbled upon a grey zone. How were we supposed to appoint a property that's vacant between two leases? What about a house that is empty for a while because the owners are planning renovations or what about an apartment that is empty and officially not inhabited by the owners, because they are staying abroad for a longer period of time? The sp.a had a proposal which would also include the vacant dwellings that will be converted, rented or used by their owners in a definition. The fact that it was a dwelling could easily be proved with rental contracts and building applications. We then again stumbled upon other specific situations where the habitation was completely inexcusable with evidence. Think, for example, of a family member who, without a contract and without a lot of furniture, with the agreement of the long-term owners abroad, uses an apartment as a dormitory, or of crooked figures who break open an empty house, then draw up a fake rental contract and finally fakely rent the property freely to partly naive, partly due to a lack of housing desperate families. They then think that they hire the property in a legitimate way, whereas they are actually the victims of fewer bona fide people. There was also a false discussion in committee, because the majority tabled a text that was fired by the Council of State. This had to do with the legal deadlines within which one can object when a home is cracked. As a result, the vote on the majority text has been postponed on the committee's agenda. Just before the recess, some attempted to transfer the blackbird to the opposition for the untimely approval. Ladies and gentlemen, in the reports you can check that I have adopted provisions on the creaking of residential buildings. Let there be no doubt about that. We have also approved all the amendments which provide for OCMW mediation for persons who receive a removal order, because they improve what used to be and the original texts. Important in the text we are discussing today is the rewritten Article 439 of the Criminal Code. From now on, not only the entry of the residence, but also the occupation and residence without the permission of the owner will be punished. The difficult definition of the term "living' is addressed through the sufficiently broad definition of the term in Article 439 of the Criminal Code. If an inhabited house is considered: any building, apartment, residence, warehouse, and any even moveable hut or any other opportunity that serves as a residence. The conclusion is that the police can act when squatters are already present in a cracked house, just as they can act in the act. The announcement that the property serves as a home offers a particularly spacious interpretation. Police forces can act in the same way and within the same time limits as they do now when they are caught. I repeat, ladies and gentlemen, we in sp.a can certainly agree to the proposal on residential buildings. We have approved the relevant articles in committee. However, we will abstain in the final vote because we cannot agree with the far too broad view of the majority of uninhabited buildings. Why should the occupation and inhabitation of long-term crooked vacant houses and of long-term vacant factory buildings and schools be punishable? We don't want to go that far.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u104	Mrs Lambrecht, first of all I am pleased that you agree with the criminalisation of inhabited buildings. You think that part is a very good part of the law, I suppose. You are going against the mayor of Ghent, Daniel Termont, who claims not to be able to do anything with that provision of the law. So you think that part of the law is really good? Then who is right here, Mrs Lambrecht or Mr Termont? Secondly, with regard to the speculatively long-term vacant buildings, if I understand you correctly, you want to distinguish between buildings that are temporarily vacant for rent and renovation, and, on the other hand, really speculatively long-term vacant buildings. That distinction must be made on the basis of contracts and the like. By who? By a judge, of course. What you create with such a system is actually a lottery for a squatter. Basically, the squatter is encouraged to crack a house, after which one will check whether the property in question is long-term empty for speculation, or is empty in anticipation of renovation or of a tenant. Actually, you're inviting the squatters with that. This brings us back to the problem that we have identified in Ghent for years, in particular a mayor who says he can and can do nothing against squatters and squatters, so welcomes them and invites them to come to Ghent as the place to be. The majority wants to put an end to this situation. That is why we say very strictly that people should not touch other people's conveniences. It is not up to the squatter to distinguish between long-term speculatively empty buildings and other vacant buildings. This distinction must be made by policy, a policy that tackles emptiness. At the local level, we have all the means to tackle empty positions. One has to want to do it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u105	Thank you, Mr Dedecker, for your interruption, but in life it is never good to take the floor too early. So I want to continue my discourse first. You will see that you will receive a lot of answers, which will show that we certainly do not allow the squatter to decide what can and what cannot be done. Moreover, I will conclude with a long-awaited consideration of Mr Termont, so that you will certainly listen to the end. I now come, after my speech on the inhabited buildings, to my comments on the uninhabited buildings. Why should we also criminalise the occupation and habitation of crooked and long-term empty houses, factory buildings and schools? We're not going that far. As you have said, there is a much broader problem here, such as housing shortage, speculation and a policy of housing, whether human or visionary, on housing, housing and housing. It is certainly not always unethical or indecent to sue certain policy choices by cracking those kinds of buildings. What about occupational occupation in trade union actions, where employees occupy a company and spend the night there, because they are afraid and want to prevent management from removing machines and moving to other locations? Such a practice also belongs to that series. The majority have slightly softened the approach to the occupation of uninhabited buildings, because it is not considered a priority. This immediately raises the question of whether the cracking of uninhabited buildings should be punishable at all. For example, in such a case, a case is not brought before the prosecutor until a criminal complaint is lodged. Thus, the possibility of objecting is guaranteed by the illegal resident until the seventh day after the adoption and the expulsion can only take place from the eighth day, a period that can even reach a month. We believe that a different and structural approach is needed to deal with habitation in vacant factory buildings and deliberately crooked houses. Such discussions should take place in other fora, namely in the regional parliaments and in the municipal councils, as I understand, in Ghent, much has happened in the past. The definition of a social policy, an empty stand and a red tape tax, municipal development companies, shelter initiatives for homeless people and so on are part of this. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, on the deadlines to be followed, when a person is served with an expulsion or expulsion and when he or she is unlawfully entering a home and occupied without the permission of the owner, there are still a lot of uncertainties at the moment. What happens, for example, when those involved not only formally but also physically resist? Which scenarios have been drawn up for this purpose? What happens when people are taken into custody for 24 hours, then return to the uninhabited property and crack it again? What are we doing with the statement by the Attorney General, who stated that they will not give priority at all to tackling squatters? The city of Ghent has already held a serious debate on the issue at municipal level. I would like to join Mr Thiébaut, who is not present for a moment. We are talking about Ghent here, but we are here at the federal level. We talk for everyone. Let's get that straight. The conclusion in Ghent was that an action plan on cracking would be drawn up. It is good that Ghent will be even more concerned with the problem. However, now that the whole debate here in the Chamber is coming to an end for the time being after tonight and it will be registered that the law will be reviewed in two years' time, I would like to end constructively with two very simple questions. Minister, I cannot imagine that you will not want to answer my questions. For the reasons of the discussions on all the uncertainties, the sp.a asks that a clear letter be sent to the police and the prosecutors with a clear, step-by-step guide on how owners, residents, mayors, police forces, judges and bailiffs can act in cases where people illegally or otherwise enter, enter and reside in buildings. That's a first question. I think the second question is also very reasonable. An evaluation is now planned after two years, but sp.a would like to check whether the law is right or wrong after one year. We hope it goes well. We already have a great deal of confidence in it, because we go along in the whole section about the inhabited buildings. To please you, I would also like to say a few words about our colleague, Mr Termont, in Ghent. The concerns expressed continuously by Mr Termont are not his concerns alone. They point out the many uncertainties that exist for us here today. The new law now before us addresses these uncertainties, at least for residential buildings. In order to remove the uncertainties, we ask that there be a very clear redirection. I repeat that we also ask for an evaluation after one year. It is very clear that the federal government has a major role to play in this area in providing local authorities with a good tool for action.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u106	Thank you, Mrs Lambrecht, for your additional explanation. Forgive me, but in Ghent a lot of references were made to the Chamber and Ghent city council also asked a lot of questions to the Chamber. It is therefore normal that Ghent should be mentioned here. Maybe sp.a's having a hard time in the opposition. In the previous legislature, I was in opposition. Faced with proposals which we supported to a large extent, but where we encountered a number of problems, we tabled amendments to improve the text. Today I hear from you that you support, in substance and in principle, the approach to residential buildings, as well as Mr Termont. Mr Termont called for additional measures. I would expect the sp.a. group to call Mr Termont to table amendments to improve the part of the law that should give the mayor more powers, as your mayor asks. I wonder what happened, where there is noise on the line, where Mr Termont's long-awaited sp.a amendment remains in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u107	Mr President, first of all, I would like my mayor's name to be pronounced correctly. It is Mr Termont, with the emphasis on the first syllable. Mrs Lambrecht, Mr Termont said on Tuesday on the radio that he did not like the arrangement on uninhabited buildings and the eight-day period. He said he would make proposals for the attention of the sp.a. Well, I've been waiting a long time for an amendment to that effect. Are you in favour, as Mr Termont asks, of reducing the deadline to 12 hours? Mrs Lambrecht, you just said that a political choice is being made in Ghent. That is possible, of course, also at local level, but if cracking becomes a crime in the near future, how will you fill it out locally with a political choice?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u108	Mrs Lambrecht, I appreciate that you continue to maintain your straight line in committee. That's slightly different from what your partymate in Ghent said. If you now say constructively that this law should be given a chance and if you ask for an evaluation, then I would simply call on you to ask everyone on your periphery to give it a chance and to stop that policy of degradation in the press.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u109	Mr Dedecker, you say that we have done nothing, but on 27 March we have already tabled a bill on how to deal with inhabited buildings, so that not only the invading but also the living in them. I'm not just standing here today either. I have concluded with two simple questions which can help us a long way to progress constructively, as Mr Lachaert says. We are asking for a clear letter to avoid all the uncertainties that exist today and which sometimes lead to annoying statements in the future. We also ask for an evaluation after a year. I think this is reasonable. Mr Yüksel, I hate to do this, but I am going to say it anyway. I haven't been here long, everyone here is on his side, but you're always so bitchy. I wonder if it's necessary to always be so bitchy. Your first sentence is always so unfriendly. You may continue to do so, but I do not think that you will achieve very much. You asked us to give mayors more authority. We have just said what we want. You can read that, just like everyone else.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u110	Mr Lambrecht, I am going to address you with the broadest smile. I just asked you a very specific question. Your mayor, my mayor, said Tuesday that the twelve hours should be there, that that eight hours for him is unworkable. Where's your amendment? That's my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u111	And my answer is, I repeat, the sp.a. is doing what I have just said. Thanks to these two questions, we hope for less uncertainty in the future. If problems remain and if there are major uncertainties, then new questions will follow from us. Now you can ask again where what is and then I'm going to answer that there is nothing, and so we, it's now 6:05 p.m., can go on for another hour. I think, in all kindness, Mr Yüksel, that my answer is clear. I have nothing more to add to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u112	I do like this debate. I'm gonna be nice too. I never tend to be unfriendly either. That's not my style. Mr Lambrecht, I realise that you have not been made easy. I'm well aware of that. That is why I dealt with it in substance earlier. After all, I do see a great contradiction. Your statement did not take away my questions either. You confirm it, and I'm very happy about it, with regard to inhabited buildings. You did indeed have a proposal. However, you must be aware that something else is being said, suggested and thrown into the press in Ghent. Maybe you could take that to the city of Ghent. I am very sorry for your work in committee, where you have followed a consistent line, where you have made a proposal. Your proposal has also been partly incorporated into ours. Apparently that is always fired as insufficient, useless and too soft. That's not fair, because there's nothing you can do about it. That's not your responsibility. You could take it to Ghent. You are now talking about a transfer letter and an evaluation. I have no problem with that, on one condition. Provided it's not a new umbrella for your partymate not to do anything and say he can't do anything. He called a helpline, asked for federal legislation. We're offering them. He must therefore seize them with his hands and feet, as must his police forces, and do something with them. If there are any doubts, we will be the first to adjust. I totally agree with that. However, your question, a valid question, should not be a new umbrella or a new excuse for doing nothing. I hope you'll take that with you. It's not personal, because I understand you haven't been made easy in the last few days.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u113	Mrs De Wit, the end of the two questions was indeed very constructive.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u114	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a very interesting and special debate. Mr Thiébaut said just now that it is as if we are here in the city council of Ghent. Just so we're clear, I'm not in there. I do not live in Ghent, but I can reassure Mr Thiébaut: the inspiration is mutual. Last week in the city council of Ghent the debate of the Committee on Justice was repeated. I will not repeat the debate, but I will try to make our position very clear. Much has already been said about the rights at stake when discussing this dossier. We are then talking classically about the contradiction between the right of ownership, which, of course, is mainly supported by the liberals, which does not mean that it is not important for us either, and the right to live, protected by the Constitution, but there are actually other rights. The right of access to a judge was just cited. Another right is the protection of the family home. We must tackle this debate with the right to the protection of the family home, the right to property and the right to live. These rights must be considered when discussions take place. They can sometimes, unfortunately, come into conflict with each other. We should ensure, by pursuing a very good policy, that we see as few conflicts as possible between these fundamental rights. During the debate in the Committee on Justice, our group has always advocated a nuanced approach, which does not mean that everything can be done. Those who have followed the debate know that it is essential for us to distinguish between inhabited and uninhabited abandoned buildings. So I come to a rather clear position for us. Mrs De Wit said that it was a difficult debate, due to terminology, legal angels and legal problems. I will make an attempt to clarify our position. I've had to do that a lot in the last few days and weeks, and I can do that if you take the time. You can't do that on Twitter. In 140 characters it is a bit difficult. It takes a little more time, because there are nuances. I would like to put forward four elements. Firstly, the intrusion into and occupation of an inhabited house cannot, of course. Everyone has recognised this too, beyond the limits of majority and opposition, most of them anyway. It's obvious that we can't do that. Apparently, the penal code didn't allow us to intervene. Although, some say that sometimes there might have been a little more possible. However, we have to admit that the law was not very clear. If one looked closely at Article 439, there was indeed a problem. With the change that is now before us, not only the intrusion is punishable in the act, but also when one is inside to stay there against the will of the inhabitant. The resident is therefore not always the owner, because this also applies to the protection of the tenant. This is about protecting the family home. There is not necessarily a conflict between the right to property and the right to live. It is not only the owner who can play a role here, it is also about the person who rents, who temporarily stays there, rents a barn as a student and so on. By the way, to deal with terminology, I have always said in committee: when it comes to invading residential buildings, it is not about cracking. I will never speak of cracking. Kraken is invading and keeping an uninhabited property occupied. In the first part of the law in which we talk about inhabited buildings, it's about invading and not cracking. We must make this distinction clear. There is talk of squatting, while a part is about cracking and the criminalisation of squatting. I am talking about this later, but another part is about protecting the family home and better protection for the person who lives there. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the application of this law on the ground will be a challenge. In all seriousness, when the law is now in place and it will have to be applied on the ground, it is very important that the mayor, as head of the administrative police, the chief of police and the King's prosecutor, make good arrangements to ensure that the occupied buildings can be released quickly during occupation. I stress that. It is essential that there is good cooperation between the police, the mayor and the public prosecutor. If one acts in the act, so the police enter and make use of the amended article 439, and the parquet magistraat does not find it necessary a few hours later for someone to be arrested or deprived of his freedom, something that one will do in order to free the building, then one gets the opposite signals and then one puts the blame back on the other. Good cooperation on the ground therefore seems essential to me. Why? Because it's about some obvious things. Examples have been cited: someone who is temporarily travelling, for a few weeks or more, someone who is staying in a hospital. We also had the case in Ghent of four Portuguese workers who worked here and who went back to their families in January a few weeks after they had worked here for months. They were tenants, not owners. When they came back, they found their property occupied. The police were powerless at the time and could not intervene. There was also a legal error at the time, so it took a long time before they could reconnect their apartment. Besides, it was in a state I don't want anyone to see. These are poignant situations that are unacceptable. We can't tolerate this. That is why we support and have always supported that part of the legislative proposal. The challenge is also to be able to determine quickly and correctly whether or not the house is inhabited. That is an important criterion. If a police officer says he wants to establish and act in the act, he will have to be sure that it is actually an inhabited building. Perhaps that is what could be blamed for the law in the first instance. The law doesn't say what's inhabited or uninhabited. There is no such definition. I also understand that this is not evident because other legislation, including regional legislation of the Regions, regulates empty positions. What's emptiness, what's not emptiness? What's habitation? It is important to check on a case-by-case basis whether there is an effective habitation. The regional legislations which differ in this country can offer criteria for this. However, it may as well be about the presence of a rental contract. There may not be one either. Testimonials from neighbors can also help. The knowledge that district agents have can also be an element, but also the presence of furniture, certain clothes and personal items. Those are all elements that can show that the property was effectively inhabited by those who claim to be the resident of the property. Minister, we have not agreed on anything, but it might be advisable for the College of Attorneys General to issue a number of directives on this matter to offer instruments. In what way is one going to act as a police department or prosecutor to judge quickly and efficiently in those very rare cases? Let us be clear what it is about habitation? That could be a help for many corps, for mayors and for the public prosecutors who will be faced with it. Second element, the bill also deals with the classic cracking of unused, empty buildings and wants to deal with this phenomenon criminally. It is not just about cases where the prosecutor's order is not respected, but about a criminal offence. That is a step too far for us. Too often we see that buildings are neglected by the owner for years. The owner does not put the property for sale or for rent and let it decay, often for speculative reasons. Later he can sell the property at a higher price or realize a large project with it. If, at the same time, it is found that there is a great need for housing in some regions and cities, and many people do not find a suitable or affordable home, then this is, of course, a distressing situation. Cracking such unused property is often a form of social or political action against a poor housing policy or the speculation policy of certain real estate companies. Should a squatter who engages such a property be prosecuted? This cannot be done for our group. This is going too far. In the end, they will meet people who have no roof over their head and are distraught. That is why we did not support this part of the legislative proposal in committee. We will not do this today either. Third element, the new procedure is intended to release an unused, uninhabited property. The owner can therefore file a complaint with the police or the prosecutor, who can then give an order to the residents to leave the cracked property. If they do not do so in good time, they may be prosecuted for doing so. I fear that this new procedure will not work or will not work properly in practice. I see two reasons for this. Firstly, the procedure can easily last a month, taking into account the different steps that need to be taken. Today, procedures are already in place to recover a property. For example, the media recently saw that an empty hotel in Brussels could be released fairly quickly, by bringing an action before the court in Brussels on 13 September, with an order on 18 September, five days later. This is much faster than the new procedure provided for in the present text. So it won't always be an improvement, it won't always go faster. There are already procedures in place today where it can go much faster. I've often acted as a lawyer against squatters in my past. I admit that. When one works on a desk, one sometimes gets certain things in. Sometimes that was very efficient, if one had a good file, for example when someone said that he needed the property and that it had to be released, through a one-sided petition, or if the identity became known, by means of a subpoena with shorter deadlines. One could often very quickly obtain a title on the basis of which one could proceed to exorcism. Of course, that was true for uninhabited buildings. So I fear that the procedure that is now being laid down... is now being referred to the court of peace, which naturally has the power to rule on residential disputes, rental disputes, everything related to habitation. However, it will not always be faster than it is today, but we will have a ruling on the substance. There is a second reason why I believe that the new procedure will not be such a great improvement, namely because, of course, the prosecutor is not obliged, when a complaint is made, to issue an order to leave the premises. We have seen the advice of the College of Attorneys General, which states that this case is not always a priority for the public prosecutors. In other words, as far as dealing with the cracking of uninhabited buildings is concerned, when complaints will come in, not all parquets will immediately take action, because they do not see it as a priority. The owner will then have to fall back on the other existing procedure or the new procedure; hence it will not always be a step forward. Fourthly, this law, whether one is in favour of it or against it, will not solve with all its advantages and disadvantages the need to live in many cities. I hope that anyone who claims that cracking is a disgrace and that cracking should be punishable will stand up equally fiercely for a determined housing policy. A policy that ensures that there are no more families in our cities because they can't find a place in the local rental market. This also means promoting a policy that tackles the structural under-financing of social housing. I know this isn't the federal authority's jurisdiction. The regions are responsible for this. Those of us here today who advocate a tough approach to cracking, I expect him to have the debate in the other parliaments and help to ensure that much more resources go to social housing. The queues are huge. As long as that problem is so huge, there will of course be a heavy pressure on certain cities. Without additional investment in new social housing, we will not be able to tackle the housing problem. For example, raising living standards and a genuine federal and regional poverty policy can help to combat poverty and facilitate the search for affordable housing for those in a precarious situation. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to make it clear that we support part of this bill, which is the part about occupied buildings, but not another part, in particular the criminal approach to cracking uninhabited and abandoned buildings, we will ask for a split vote. Our group leaders will specifically request a separate vote on Articles 2 and 3 of the legislative proposal. We believe it is important that these two articles, which clearly distinguish between inhabited and uninhabited buildings, clearly indicate that we are in favour of stricter action in the occupation of inhabited buildings, but are opposed to uninhabited buildings. Mr President, please take my request into account in the vote later.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u115	That will happen, Mr Van Hecke.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u116	Mr President, my colleague Mr. Van Hecke spoke on the content, in a relatively technical way. Personally, I will go directly to most of the positioning of the Ecolo-Green group and its various components. I note, as my colleague has done, that this bill contains two problems, which the majority unfortunately combines. We believe that it combines them to create confusion and exploit the emotion of the population, whether in one direction or the other. Article 3 of this proposal contains provisions on what is really called squat, i.e. the occupation of abandoned, unoccupied buildings. In fact, they are often used to speculate. They are left to abandon in the hope that their value will increase. When you're hoping to get the most out of it, you want to dispose of it immediately. It is totally unacceptable for our political group to criminalize those who occupy an abandoned building, and who are therefore engaged in squatting. This is unacceptable because it refers to the right to housing, because this occupation does not bother anyone and allows people who, apart from that, do not have access to a roof, to housing, to use empty spaces. We note that, in all major cities and in the different regions, this practice is used to provide temporary solutions, of course, to the poorest people. We also see – as practice shows – that the use of these buildings, the occupation of these squats, also allows us to have neighbourhood dynamics, to carry out social policies, to ensure that people have access to social assistance, because we know that these people are there and that we can find them there. We are observing positive and proactive policies on the part of local authorities to use this technique to pursue social, housing and poverty reduction policies. For all these reasons, we will vote against the section of the law that allows the criminalization of the occupation of abandoned buildings. I would also like to ask you, Minister, when you speak about these squat provisions, to ensure that at no time will the federal provisions envisaged here affect regional, local, communal policies relating to the protection of squatters, the conventions that allow us to occupy the property, to negotiate this occupation with the owner and to negotiate how the occupants will eventually have to move and return this property to the owner for future use. I think it is important to say that here too. The ambiguity of this bill is that it also includes a provision for the protection of the inhabitant of a dwelling which, because he has been absent for various reasons (work abroad, hospitalization, vacation), finds himself with intruders who occupy his dwelling. There, we are faced with people whose right to housing has been violated and there is obviously a need to find a solution to enable them to recover their housing quickly. We supported this provision, which makes it possible to intervene quickly and to discover the flagrant offence of the occupation of the property of others. In addition, this mechanism allows for the intervention of a judge in the event of a problem of legitimacy as to the real occupant of the property. I agree with the demands made by my colleague Van Hecke on the need – even if it is impossible to define strictly what a inhabited dwelling is – to take certain elements into account. In addition to the "domicile" itself, account will have to be taken of the testimonies of the neighbourhood or the presence of property belonging to the usual occupant. Above all, it will be necessary to avoid abuse and the use of the term "inhabited housing" to use the penalization of occupation, whereas the intended form is, in the end, a squat since the dwelling is uninhabited. Minister, it is important to take the trouble to describe the various elements that can be taken into account. They will also protect the victims of sleep merchants, who can occupy houses already occupied by others. In our view, it is important that you can take the initiative with the general prosecutors to recommend to the local authorities, the mayors, the heads of bodies, the prosecutors, according to their reality, to determine together how to identify a inhabited dwelling, the procedure to follow when a resident complains that he is no longer able to enter his home because his house is occupied. Depending on the simple or complicated situation on the spot, how to intervene? How does the policeman enter or not, because there is another need for intervention? In the case of the development of good practices by area or by common practice, the procedure may not only be clear to the various stakeholders but also respect the different people. So, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, this is our position with respect to section 2 of the housing provisions. We also ensured that an evaluation approach was incorporated into the work of the committee. The consequences of the application of these provisions will have to be analysed and any perverse effects observed will have to be corrected. The legislator often tends to make decisions without subsequently checking whether they are being met and meeting expectations. This provision introduced by Ecolo-Groen was accepted by the Commission. After explaining our positions on these two provisions, you will understand why, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are asking for two separate votes. These are two different realities, two different policies: the squat and the protection of the owner or tenant whose housing is occupied by a period of absence. It is extremely difficult to understand why these two provisions were put together in the same text. Mixing them puts people against each other, creates confusion. This prevents the citizen from being properly informed about what will be adopted. Because we do not want to enter into this game that allows confusion and stigmatization, because we have obtained an evaluation of the texts, because we want to respect the right to housing for those who do not have access to it, who do not have a roof, while others speculate from empty buildings, because we want to respect the right to housing for both tenants and owners who are violated in the occupation of their property and because we want to be honest with the citizens who are in these different situations, we will abstain in the final vote. However, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, since we are asking for separate votes and you may refuse this request, we are also tabling two amendments. These are designed to remove the articles relating to the penalisation of squat, i.e. the occupation of empty, abandoned buildings. Since you could also reject these amendments and in view of the confusion, the amalgam around this single text, two members of our group will vote against the final text in disapproval of the amalgams desired by the majority of this Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u117	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say a few words about the bills before us. First of all, I would like to point out that the right to property is a fundamental right. It is a right which must be protected and which, if necessary, must be strengthened. I would also like to recall that, of course, I can understand the emotion aroused by the squat that took place in Ghent and that I can also understand that the law is being changed so that it is more effective in relation to intolerable situations. It is known that there are already procedures before the justice of the peace and that these procedures have been partly ineffective. In particular, the bill before us aims to make these procedures more effective and faster before the justice of the peace. We rejoiced. This is the positive part of this law, but we also believe that this law goes too far. It therefore organises a criminal procedure for the expulsion of a squat from a building, even when the building is abandoned. The very idea of criminalization of a squat abandoned building is not useful, especially since the owners of unoccupied buildings are not prosecuted, I would point out, neither criminally nor administratively, when the law provides for it. This criminalization is problematic, especially as it is now known that many homes are sometimes unoccupied for years. In Brussels alone, there are now 15 000 empty dwellings, while our citizens sometimes have a hard time housing themselves at decent prices, and the housing situation today, in Brussels in particular but also elsewhere, is particularly striking. It is also important to note that the occupation of squats through occupation agreements is sometimes organised to the satisfaction of all actors: public or private owner, people without housing, associations to combat poverty. Of course, an owner must be allowed to recover his property if the occupants do not voluntarily leave the premises - at the first request or when his property is not abandoned. However, in the opinion of many experts - and we have cited some of them: the Royal Union of Justices of the Peace, the King's Council of Prosecutors, Professor Bernard (Saint-Louis University), Olivier Hamal, who sat on the benches of the MR and president of the National Union of Owners - this proposal is not useful. Indeed, criminalization, they say, does not bring any added value. What is the purpose of the owners? It is practical in that they seek to recover their property and, possibly, to repair the damage that has been caused. As I have explained, civil proceedings before the justice of the peace are already provided for in the Judicial Code and allow for the application to be referred to the justice of the peace. It is now being strengthened to increase its efficiency and make it faster. The objective could be achieved by this provision alone, i.e., the liberation of the premises. Criminalization will not add anything to this situation, except to make the citizen increase that he will be reinvested more quickly in his rights - which everyone doubts. The main task of the Public Prosecutor's Office, ladies and gentlemen, is not to intervene in the protection of property, when there is already a justice of the peace, who fulfils this mission in civil matters and whose means for its fulfilment have been strengthened. The Royal Union of Justices of the Peace expressed concern about this, as did Mr. Hamal. Mrs Özen read out the article in La Libre Belgique in which he spoke. The purpose of the proposed law is to give the Public Prosecutor's Office a function of protection of property, even though it has just been made optional to protect minors in parental conflicts before the family court, which was much more necessary. The speed of execution through this criminal procedure will probably not be met given the workload of the prosecutors. This criterion of urgency can already be met by the filing of a request for urgency or even in extreme urgency. The action of the Public Prosecutor's Office will therefore have no added value in terms of judicial efficiency. Furthermore, once the evacuation of the premises has been completed, will the Public Prosecutor's Office effectively prosecute the persons before the Correctional Court on the basis of the new criminalization? What will be the owner's compensation? Should he issue a direct summons or return on the basis of a new motion before the justice of the peace, since the unilateral motion does not resolve the issue of damages? All these questions remain unanswered. In our view, this procedure will be more arduous, longer and certainly more costly than the procedure already possible before the justice of the peace. It is also striking to remember that the Council of State itself, in its opinion, asked the legislator to reflect on the advisability of abandoning this idea and I quote it: "It is recommended during the preparatory work that the interests in question be carefully balanced and examined on this basis whether the intervention of the Public Prosecutor's Office should be maintained. Civil judicial proceedings exist, they have been improved and must be used for what they were created for: the civil law in which between occupation without title or right." Ladies and gentlemen, it is for this reason that our group will vote against this bill, as it did in the Committee on Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u118	Mr President, I will be brief, because many arguments have been made, particularly by those who oppose this bill. Mr Dallemagne has just put forward some very relevant arguments, which I broadly agree with. First of all, I would like to say that a gas plant is being set up in legal terms, while legal mechanisms are fairly effective, and even very effective if they are to be used properly, in the case of genuine squatters. As Mr. Van Hecke, it is a question of squatting if an unoccupied property is entered and occupied, temporarily or for a longer period, by persons who have no title or right to settle in a building, regardless of their assignment. I recall, and I am somewhat surprised that there is controversy about it, that the mayors, by virtue of their powers of administrative police, have broad means to prevent and put an end to such situations. I'm talking about experience. When I am informed by the police of the occupation of a building in which there is indeed no activity whatsoever, because it is an empty building, it is customary for me to immediately issue a police order requiring the owner to take physical measures to prohibit entry into the building, that is, simply to block access. This is a procedure that can be very rapid, especially if, on the basis of police reports, there is an irregular occupation – I will return to the importance of this finding – involving a risk, in particular a fire in the building. It must be noted, however, that, in most cases, people who occasionally come to occupy a building develop means of heating there which pose a danger to safety: wood fire, oil lamp heating, gas cans, in short, all means which are in flagrant violation of the safety of persons and property. Therefore, on the basis of a simple police report, or even an investigation by an urban planning department, the mayors are in a position to take measures that physically prevent the introduction into an occupied building. The problem becomes a little more difficult from a legal point of view when there is a continuous occupation, i.e. when people organize themselves to stay there. It is true that this creates a presumption of domicile in the head of these persons. These cases correspond to behaviors due to organized groups, usually international movements – that is what we see in the communes – which, for purely ideological reasons, in the form of almost anarchist behaviors, decide to consider that the very principle of private property must be challenged and that any empty property must be systematically occupied, regardless of its previous assignment – housing, office, etc. In this way, they seek to challenge property rights. In this case, it is true that the police cannot intervene in order to carry out an expulsion even on the basis of a police order, because there is a presumption of domicile in the head of persons who continuously occupy and organize themselves to occupy the good continuously. We must go to the justice of the peace, but I do not know many, if any, cases where a justice of the peace would not have granted the request of the owner of the property to proceed at the end of the occupation and to order the expulsion. I confess that I do not see very well the added value of the mechanisms that are invented on the basis of the bill. Others have said - there have been enough observations from both the justices of the peace and the College of Public Prosecutors - that criminal and civil proceedings are being combined, without determining in time which ones have priority over the others. This will create competition and possibly even risks of the invalidity of certain procedures. When property is allocated to housing and is occupied, it is obvious that one is in a completely different situation and, in this case, the public prosecutor's offices usually give a penal follow-up to this kind of forced occupation. It must be recognised, however, that this is a rather exceptional situation. But when it comes to unoccupied property, if tomorrow the prosecution has to order a measure of prohibition to the good but that is not confirmed by the justice of the peace, especially because there is a procedural defect in the procedure before the justice of the peace, we have gone in contradictions to determine who will have the last word – the king's prosecutor or the justice of the peace. I do not see the point of having put civil and criminal proceedings in competition for this kind of hypothesis. In addition, clerks are required to perform an implausible job because, per person who occupies the good – they are often collectives – they will have to notify the CPAS of the home – good luck to know it when it comes to the people whose ideological habits I have described – or the last residence known for the CPAS to propose a relocation plan. Can you imagine the work required of the justices of the peace registry? They have many other priorities. They will be confronted with occupations by 40 or 50 people, as happens in some buildings, and they will have to spend their time finding the home or residence of each of these illegal occupants in order to be able to write to CPAS when the people concerned do not want the help of CPAS. Their approach is purely ideological and they go from well to good, across Europe to simply make an illegal occupation. As soon as they get an expulsion order, they'll see somewhere else. And are we going to ask the clerks of the justices of the peace to spend their time writing to the CPAS to notify that a procedure is pending before the justice of the peace? It's implausible. We have nothing else to do with our transplants, which are overloaded and understaffed? A genuine gas plant has been set up for ideological reasons as well. Of course, the occupation without title or right of another person's property is unacceptable. No one's contesting it. But the legal instruments existed. They were largely sufficient. This also implies that the mayors assume the administrative police powers vested in them. Too many mayors give it up, by ease. But when you take a properly motivated police order with due process,... Admittedly, there are a few deadlines to be respected, including the summons of the owner of the property. But the owner of the property is the first to say, "Just take the police order." If the owner of the property does not wish to take preventive measures to prohibit intrusion into the property, you may order the owner of the property to carry out certain works. And if you fail to execute them within a certain period of time, you have them executed by your services and you recover the expenses incurred by the municipality responsible for the owner of the property. I'll take an example. In my commune, an empty property was regularly squatted. The owner was a public authority. By neglect or lack of political will, he did not want to take preventive measures against intrusion. I ordered, of course, after a number of police findings and the observance of a certain period of time, the demolition of the building property. And the building is being demolished to prevent the squat. It's as simple as that when you want to shoulder your responsibilities. It is a question of the mayor's political will, of the ability to act. Prosecutors are being charged with missions that they will do little or no work, varying widely from one prosecutor's office to another depending on their availability, and new missions are being assigned to the peace courts. However, when the justices of the peace were truly seized of a flagrant situation, they were never late to take the necessary justice measures. I therefore believe that this bill has only a very random objective, not to say totally unsatisfactory in legal terms.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u119	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it goes without saying that I am not defending the possibility of creating a squat in a inhabited house, as happened in Ghent. But this particular case serves as a pretext for this bill, which constitutes a considerable extension of the existing anti-squatting law. At the PTB, we consider this proposal unnecessary, ineffective and disproportionate, and it contains a potential attack on trade union rights. The Royal Union of Justices of the Peace and Police found the bill unnecessary. The squatting of a manned building is already reprehensible under the current article 439 of the Criminal Code. As for uninhabited buildings, article 591 of the Judicial Code provides for the possibility for the owner to obtain the expulsion of squatters by means of civil proceedings initiated before the justice of the peace or, in cases of extreme urgency, before a judge of the court of first instance. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, there are serious doubts as to the effectiveness of the proposed procedure. The majority relied on the slowness of the existing procedures as an argument, but was unable to reply when it was pointed out that the procedure provided for in the new law would not be shorter. The College of Attorneys General has also announced that this proposal would not be in its priorities. This proposal constitutes a further extension of the power of the Public Prosecutor's Office, something which the Council of State has criticized on various occasions, in the sense that the Public Prosecutor's Office is not neutral. In addition, the question arises as to whether this bill is proportionate. The Minister stated in committee that the criminal judge would only be brought before him as a last resort. Why in this case would such drastic measures be needed? Why not improve the current civil procedure before the justice of the peace? Or do a reassessment of the conditions, so that the decision on expulsion can be given as an interim measure when it comes to an occupied building? On the contrary, what the majority really wants is to make the squat criminally reprehensible. This right-wing coalition wants to be able to expel vulnerable people from unoccupied buildings and lock them in our overcrowded prisons. It wants to be able to make the protests against evictions or other shortcomings of housing policy reprehensible. It wants to be able to invoke this anti-squat law against trade union freedoms, for example in the case of the occupation of factories, enterprises, which would therefore be criminalised. It is an attack on the most vulnerable in our society, on those for whom squatting is sometimes the only way to escape death by hypothermia, a new attack on those very people on whom this rich government continues to be abhorrent! Ladies and gentlemen, our country is facing a serious housing crisis. Regional governments refuse to build social housing, while rents are unpayable for an increasing number of people. This anti-social government is not able to guarantee a roof for all and continues in this way to protect those who speculate on the backs of the weakest. For all these reasons, we will vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u120	It is not compulsory, because it is a matter of proposals, but I would, of course, like to give the floor to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u121	Mr President, in view of the fact that it is a legislative proposal by the majority, I will be reluctant to comment, although my cabinet has actively participated in the preparation of the text and I myself in the discussions in the Committee on Justice. Let me give you some details. Of course, the President of the Court of First Instance in the interim proceedings remains fully competent. I do not see how we could shorten that power, Mr Van Hecke. I believe that the extension of the delinquency crime is a good thing for legal certainty. I am therefore pleased that the Green Group wishes to join. I'm glad to hear the mayor has so many police powers. We live in a country where everything is always the fault of another level. It's become a technique. Fortunately, we still have Europe, if there is nothing else that can help us. As far as the real crack in the strict sense of the word is concerned, I think we have been caring. I dare ask the opposition not to make excessive use of the word disproportionate. If one knows that in the Netherlands the squat can be fought without a court order, even to the extent that it is feared that this rule will not stand under the case law of the European Court of Human Rights in the McCann case, then I think that this bill has found the right balance between the right to private property and the right to live: if the public prosecutor gives an order to evacuate, it is always possible to appeal to the natural court. It is precisely that possibility that the European Court of Human Rights considers vital in cases like this, where the natural court will naturally have to weigh up human rights, including the right to property and the right to live, and take the right decision. Many people were heard in the Committee on Justice and I understand that the representative of the CIB Real Estate Association welcomed the measure in the Committee on Justice. For peace judges, I have the impression that they have been fully recognized as natural courts, and that they will be able to use, for the first time and always, unlike the President of the Court of First Instance, a clear procedure on a unilateral application. So I don't know what the exact problem is. One can, of course, differ in one's opinion and taste as to how far one goes. However, cracking is a complaint crime, not an ordinary crime. The prosecutor's order may always be submitted to the peace court within eight days. The appeal to the Justice of the Peace has a suspensive effect. Afterwards, when he applies an expulsion, the court of peace will still have to give a reasonable period of time. In my opinion, the legislative proposal strikes the balance between many aspects. As far as the occupation and the rights of trade unions are concerned, I do not have the impression that the legislative proposal amends the current provisions in this area, namely Article 584 on the general competence of the President of the Court of First Instance to put an end to an occupation, and Article 591, 1°, on the power of the court of peace to intervene in such matters. Mr President, those were some of the points I wanted to make in response to this legislative proposal by the majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u122	Some Members are asking for a reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u123	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. Like Mr Gerkens, I have asked you a very specific question which you have not yet answered. The question is whether it would not be advisable for the College of Attorneys-General to issue some guidelines on the interpretation of an inhabited or uninhabited property, in order to avoid that this would give rise to discussions at local level, as well as discussions between police and public prosecutors or between public prosecutors. We want to make sure that there is no abuse of the notion inhabited or uninhabited and we want legal certainty. That is not included in the law, for which I can understand, because it is very complex to lay it down in a law. However, I would like to ask whether it would not be advisable to draw up some directives or agreements in this connection, which will enable us to work on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u124	Mr President, perhaps it is not customary for me to take the floor again, but allow me to do so. Mr Van Hecke, it is indeed the intention of the Public Prosecutors General to draw up a directive on the whole of this regulation. I would also like to answer one of Mrs Lambrecht's questions. I'll definitely ask the Attorney General to go into that. Mrs Lambrecht also asked me a question about the shortening of the evaluation procedure. Well, two years is actually very short. That is why I propose that this evaluation period be maintained. The public prosecutor sometimes does little more than write directives. We are in danger of getting into a situation where we are almost reviewing the legislation before the directive is fully completed. So we have to take a little account of these people's workloads.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u125	Minister, you are trying to answer the questions we asked you. I would like you to clarify how these provisions could or could not affect regional and communal skills and capacities in terms of the measures these levels of power are taking to promote and expand the occupation of unoccupied and abandoned buildings, or to use them to provide temporary housing for homeless people.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u126	Mr President, I do not wish to prolong this discussion. I'd rather not go into... [[...]] [[: (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u127	Yes, I know, but I would not like to insist on the rights and prerogatives of the Regions. I only want to say in general that there are two important things: the right to housing is a principle on which the federal government is not competent, unlike the Regions which have all the powers in this field. Moreover, the conflict between property rights and the right to housing is a matter for the judge. What I regret is that in some cases the right to property is violated in order not to have to realize the right to housing at the regional or local level, if you understand what I mean. While I can very well imagine that owners abuse the situation and speculate, the local and regional authorities have, at the same time, the flexibility to do what they should do, that is, to guarantee the right to housing. I am not the justice of the peace, but the justice of the peace must balance these two rights, in the event that the dwelling is not inhabited by the owner or a tenant.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u128	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u129	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1008/11) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1008/11) The title was changed by the committee to "Proposal for a law on unlawful entry into, occupation of or residence in another person's property." The title has been amended by the commission to "proposal for a law on the illegitimate penetration, occupation or stay in the property of others". The bill has 13 articles. The bill has 13 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u130	• 41 • Stefaan Van Hecke cs (1008/12) Annex V.Part 2.124 • 42 - Stefaan Van Hecke cs (1008/12)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u131	****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. At the request of the Ecolo-Green Group, we will vote separately on Articles 2 and 3. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u132	Sustained: the vote on the amendments and Articles 2, 3 and 12.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u133	Article adopted by article: Articles 1, 4 to 11 and 13.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u134	******
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u135	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr. Calomne and Mr. Van Biesen, rapporteurs, refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u136	Mr President, it is a matter of expanding the scope for the use of regulated real estate companies. I would like to confirm two points of debate in this plenary session. The first relates to the budgetary impact of the measure. The government presents it to us as positive in budgetary terms, but it is a form of taxation that is particularly beneficial to the companies concerned. The Minister of Finance, as too often, has not been able to demonstrate to us that additional revenue would be generated on a sustainable basis by this system, but that, on the contrary, it could be particularly costly for public finances. Second, it expands the areas of activity in which these regulated real estate companies can operate. This can be positive in terms of financing infrastructure works. Perhaps this could have been more consistent with this government's investment project. But we regret - my colleague Calvo and I have tabled an amendment to this effect - that investments in infrastructure linked to oil products and gas are also eligible and benefit from a favourable tax regime, while our country, like all the others in Europe and the world, has embarked on a de-investment of the carbon sectors in the Paris Agreements. It seems to us that it would have been better to be more selective. As our amendment has not been supported in the Finance Committee, we will not be able to support the text before us today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u137	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u138	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2532/7) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2532/7) The draft law has 66 articles. The bill has 66 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u139	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u140	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 1265: Ahmed Laaouej, Eric Massin, Stéphane Crusnière, Alain Mathot, Peter Vanvelthoven - 1993: Stefaan Vercamer, Roel Deseyn, Sonja Becq - 2129: Jef Van den Bergh, Veli Yüksel, Roel Deseyn - 2133: David Geerts, Ann Vanheste, Karin Temmerman. By letter dated 5 October 2017, Mr Ahmed Laaouej requested that proposal No 1265 be decoupled from draft No 2639. By letter of 5 October 2017, Mr Ahmed Laaouej asked to separate proposal No. 1265 from project No. 2639.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u141	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs, Mr Van Biesen and Mr Crusnière, refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u142	Mr President, I would like to express my satisfaction at the fact that today we can approve the bicycle fee for speed pedals in the first part of the law on various tax provisions. My group had already tabled this proposal more than a year ago. Cycling to work has seen a real advance in recent years. Recently it appeared that the bicycle is used for 16% of commuting. The bicycle fee certainly plays a role in this. In companies that grant a bicycle fee, the bicycle even accounts for 20% of commuting. That shows that the potential is there. For people who live a little further away from their work, the speed pedal is certainly an ideal way to go to work in a sustainable and flexible way, despite the distance. By giving them the right to a bicycle fee, which has not been the case so far, many people who are still taking the car will go to work partly by bike. This is a good thing, both for mobility, air quality and for their health. The bicycle fee will undoubtedly be a trigger to make the investment in a speed pedal, which costs some money. Except for five days, it is a year since the KB made it impossible for the speed pedals to pay a bicycle fee for this. I still regret a little that it has taken so long to overcome that gap, but thanks to the present design and the work of many, it is finally time to do so. I would like to thank you for that. Of course, we will fully support the draft.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u143	Mr Geerts, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u144	Mr President, although this is a tax matter, my speech focuses mainly on mobility. Mr Van den Bergh has already said that in recognition of the speed pedals in October 2016, there was actually a problem on the ground for people who moved with this new kind of bike. Companies and local authorities grabbed us about this. Our group, like CD&V, tabled a text in October to resolve two issues, namely, on the one hand, the fiscal side of the story that has been presented today on our banks and, on the other hand, the change in social contributions, which needs to be further developed. Why do I say that? Because cycling is getting more and more important. Think of the additional construction in each province within the framework of the bicycle ostrades, which makes them widely used by speedpedelecs. The distance over the bicycle ostrades is traveled by speed pedals faster than the same distance through a car. As far as the budgetary aspect is concerned, I read in the report that you are allocating EUR 1 million for this, Minister. We often have doubts about the figures we get from your department, but I really hope that this figure is not budgeted enough so that more and more people will be able to make use of them in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u145	Mr President, like my colleagues, I would like to welcome two provisions of this text. The first is, of course, the extension of the bicycle allowance to speed pedalec or electric bicycles, which was problematic – for reasons unrelated to taxation, but which were linked to the Road Traffic Code. Through this measure, we have integrated the possibility of providing workers with a bicycle allowance for the use of an electric bicycle. This can be justified if you live relatively far from your workplace. I hope this will encourage more people to use it to get to work. This will also require that public infrastructure be better adapted to the weakest users. Another provision in this text deserves to be stressed. I am thinking of the one relating to taxation affecting certain pensions. In some cases, the increase in the gross pension could result in a decrease in the net pension. This is a problem that I had already noted in this Parliament a few years ago. Unfortunately, it has not been settled structurally. This is all the more problematic because it is the lowest pensions that are involved. Again this afternoon, I was questioned by an eighty-year-old retiree whose career spanned forty-two years. He informed me that he had been surprised, even disappointed and saddened by finding out on his bulletin-excerpt of role that the amount of tax payable had increased. This can cause serious problems for the lowest pensions. We hope that the technical provisions that are adopted through the articles concerned will definitively resolve this problem. Attention should be paid to this. If this text did not contain certain provisions on VAT, which we do not support, we could have voted on it. Therefore, and despite the satisfaction of the two aspects already noted, we will abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u146	Mr President, in this draft, which contains various tax provisions, we find drinking and eating. As much as I welcome the bike provision, I remain sceptical and totally dissatisfied with the chapter just mentioned, which concerns the so-called resolution of the pension tax trap. The problem is not solved at all by this bill. This is an old problem that I have already asked the Minister of Finance several times about. In his answers to my first questions, he was clearly not willing to solve the problem. Finally, things have changed. The government has proposed another measure that attacks public service pensioners. Indeed, this government has abolished the increase in years of study in the calculation of pensions, but with the possibility, in return, of buying back those years. The problem is that some public service employees will buy back these years of study, experience an increase in their gross pension, but not an increase in their net pension. Now, it's with this one that you can eat, not with the gross pension. There is a marginal rate of 100%, and even more so with the extras. This bill solves a very small part of the problem. Indeed, from now on, according to the Minister of Finance, if your gross pension increases, which also applies to unemployment and other replacement income, for which the problem is the same, there will no longer be a decrease in the net. But the net you get will be totally insignificant. Here is a numerical example: your pension increases from 16 000 to 16 500 euros gross per year. It therefore increases, in gross terms, by 500 euros. Currently, the net is - 74 euros. You're losing that amount. With the application of this law, we will have 9.5 euros in addition. So, 500 euros of gross in addition give 9.5 euros of net in addition. The marginal rate of taxation is therefore 98 %. This is the government's miracle solution: it is no longer a net negative but a marginal tax rate of 98%! I don't know if we can really talk about a solution. The Council of State also raises the contradiction and, in the explanatory memorandum, the Minister admits that this is an interim solution. The law does not provide for a "horizontal" provision, i.e. with an end date. We're giving "temporary-definitive." In committee, I asked the minister when the problem would be resolved. He replied very clearly that he did not want to lock up in a deadline. In conclusion, we have "temporary-definitive", a bit like the Atomium. In 1958, when the Atomium was built, it was said to be temporary. He's still here, you can go see him. So it's "temporary-definitive." On the other hand, the government has buried the bonus of years of education for the pension. That's right! But the resolution of the problem is completely imperfect. I think that under this Parliament, at least I do not believe in it, there will be no solution to this problem. People who are going to buy back their years of education risk investing today in order not to get an extra pension tomorrow. Coming from this government, it's a scandal!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u147	First of all, I am very pleased if it is right, we should also say it with a number of points in the bill containing various provisions. I agree with Mr Van den Bergh and Mr Geerts: the problem of bicycle compensation has finally been resolved. It would be great if costs related to bicycles could not be introduced and those related to other vehicles could be introduced. We have to bet on the bike and less on the car. I therefore welcome the fact that this time this measure will apply. I think the Members of this House would like that, too. In addition, there was the problem of calculating the additional tax relief, especially for taxpayers who only benefit from pensions or replacement income, a problem that we have tried to solve, but not yet enough. An advantage now is that a measure will not have a negative effect: it will no longer be net in the event of a gross increase. After all, that would be awesome. Those taxpayers were given less than they had expected in advance in the accounts, and that was a pity. So I can only welcome that adjustment. However, it is still true that an increase in gross pensions does not produce any net results, as previous speakers have pointed out. You yourself have indicated that it is a provisional solution. I wish you all the courage and ingenuity, because it is not easy to ensure that an increase is not taxed at 98 %. Finally, Minister, I do have an amendment. This has to do with the situation and events of recent days, with regard to the referendum in Catalonia and, of course, with regard to the announcement by Prime Minister Puigdemont that Catalonia would declare independence. In the meantime, we read in the press that the Constitutional Court has suspended the meeting of the Catalan Parliament on Monday, fearing, of course, that the Catalans would declare independence. Knowing the Catalans, however, I think they certainly have a loophole to escape and eventually declare their independence. If the Catalans declare their independence on Monday or one of the following days, then of course we also have a problem with the tax situation, Minister. This concerns the tax situation of Belgians living in Catalonia, but also of Catalans living in Belgium. That must, of course, be settled. We are committed to legal certainty and we must therefore ensure that it is guaranteed. The tax treaties and agreements that we all know and which have been concluded with Spain then pose an important problem. At the moment they are not specifically closed with Catalonia. The exchange of information under these taxes is extremely important. This is, of course, a very important rule, crucial to the fight against tax fraud. So we are actually tabling an amendment to ensure, pending the recognition of Catalonia, that the tax treaties, agreements, avenants and protocols currently concluded with the Kingdom of Spain also apply to the territory of Catalonia. The list can be found in the explanatory notes on all the agreements, avenants and protocols that matter. So, pending recognition, we would like the tax treaties, agreements and so on with the Kingdom of Spain to apply to the territory of Catalonia. If, for example, the Belgian tax authorities want to obtain information from the Spanish authorities, which relate to the territory of Catalonia, then it is of course necessary for us to be able to obtain this information from Spain itself. That government has all the historical data at its disposal. Conversely, when there is an independent Catalonia, we will have to request data from Catalonia itself and no longer from the Kingdom of Spain. We want there to be legal certainty in the Belgian example, pending recognition of this, which can of course take a while. In this way, as a transitional arrangement until a final settlement is reached, we want to ensure that the Belgian Government can start negotiations with the Catalan government on the conclusion of tax treaties from the moment it is recognised. I hope that you will also ask your state ministers, because they too will then be able to conclude such tax treaties with Catalonia.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u148	Mr President, I have two comments to make. First of all, I didn't know it was five days away, but for the speed pedelec it did indeed last a year. However, I would like to point out that the present system is now in motion retroactively as of 1 January 2017. The benefits that the bicycle user can enjoy therefore effectively cover all year round. Secondly, in the case of the pension item, there was effective the problem of the increased gross pension, which peculiarly gave rise to a reduced net pension. We have divided the problem, of course, into two parts. On the one hand, it is now being capped, so that a negative impact on the net pension can no longer be achieved. On the other hand, there is a more comprehensive reform aimed at achieving a streamlined gross-net system, which is a very complex affair. This reform is now being worked out.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u149	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u150	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2639/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2639/4) The draft law has 16 articles. The bill has 16 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u151	Chapter/Chapitre 6(n) Article 17(n) 2 • Veerle Wouters cs (2639/5) ****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment in question will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment and on the package will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u152	Sustained: the vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u153	Article adopted by article: Articles 1 to 16.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u154	******
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u155	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Laurent Devin, Fabienne Winckel, Jean-Jacques Flahaux, Christian Brotcorne, Benoît Friart.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u156	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u157	I refer to the written report, Mr President. I can still tell you that the bill was passed in committee with 11 votes in favour and 1 against.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u158	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, this is an important moment for our Central Region, since, on the occasion of the appeal brought by the Ecolo Party, we are given the opportunity to make changes to the constituency of Hainaut. It was a dream of many, and especially of our dear Mr. Taminiaux, who had carried the idea of the Central Region, also with the Liberals, since the Liberal Association of the Centre had existed for a long time as well. Today, thanks indirectly to Ecolo, we have the opportunity to create the electoral district of the Centre. That is the political meaning of what we are going to do today. That is why I regret that our friends, thanks to whom the debate was launched, are slowing down the four irons for reasons just as political as they will probably explain in a few minutes. I am really very happy because, together with our socialist, liberal and Christian-Democratic friends, we have reached a consensus. This is extremely important, in our Hainaut, in our Wallonia. We have managed to achieve a project that has been dear to us for some 20 years. In the Committee on the Interior, almost unanimity was held, since the proposal was adopted by eleven votes to one. I hope that this near-unanimity will be repeated today. Perhaps we will be argued that we could wait for a particular Region to move forward. I think that today we are making a symbolic gesture. I would like to thank the entire assembly for the successful completion of the electoral district of the Centre.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u159	Mr President, I thank Mr Flahaux for reminding us of the origin of what is being considered in the House today, namely that recourse which the ecologists have introduced and won to maintain and strengthen principles of sufficient proportionality in certain places, certain cuts of our boroughs that did not deserve the craft that we are being proposed. I will explain in a few points the reasons why we will not vote for this text. First of all, some elements related to the shape. The House is about to adopt, as a matter of urgency, a text concerning constituencies in Wallonia, while the text of the Walloon Parliament, which was supposed to be at the origin of the proceedings, is not even ready. In parallel to what was tabled in the House, a proposal for a special decree was tabled in Wallonia, but, noting the numerous legal, administrative and even political errors of this text, it was advised by the Clerk of the Walloon Parliament to amend it in depth, which was accepted by the Walloon parliamentarians. I am even told that the text, a new version, will be sent to the Council of State and that it will take 45 days. It should be explained to me why the text presented to the Federal Parliament, which is only the consequence of what is adopted at Walloon level, must be voted on as a matter of urgency, without the advice of the Council of State. Mr. President, you will recall that we asked you. We have not yet received an answer. But in the Walloon Parliament, the Council of State is going to be asked because it is, on a somewhat technical level, a modification of our electoral machinery. There are important issues in this text for the electoral district of the Centre. We can support what the municipalities of the Centre have asked for; we have already said so. But here, we go further. Let me turn to the substantive elements that pose a problem to us. There is a request from the municipalities to finally obtain the historical recognition of an electoral district of the Centre. The remedy that Ecolo got offers an opportunity. We are in favour of this, but what is proposed for the time being in the text tabled is not what the municipalities are asking for. Here, it is proposed to create two administrative districts. The communes wanted a unit. All the texts voted in the municipalities concerned were aimed at the creation of a political unit of the Centre. We supported it, but it is not in this text. I do not understand and no one can explain and justify it other than by the fact that it was necessary to create two capital cities. The citizens of this electoral district of the Centre are further subdivided and placed in an unequal position between those of La Louvière and those of Soignies. We can't accept it. I now return to the way in which the work is organised. What is happening here must only be the result of the vote that will one day take place in the Walloon Parliament. However, it is the primary object. This has no meaning, either political or legal. I had the opportunity to question the Minister of the Interior in June, some will say in time non-suspecto; almost non-suspecto because some things were already murmuring. The presidents of the traditional parties met. Two of them sit in our assembly. They will be able to give us more details in connection with this. In June, when I ask the Minister of the Interior, and I invite you to reread his answer, he makes it clear that "the role and federal jurisdiction are only subsequent to what Wallonia must implement". Clearly, when you look at the table that is proposed to us, Wallonia is competent for electoral districts. Wallonia is competent for boroughs. Wallonia is competent for the cantons, but the federal authority is competent only to determine the communes which will be within the cantons. Today, we are asked to determine the communes assigned to a particular canton, while we are still unaware of the cantons, boroughs and districts! If the Council of State still asks you to change the text at Walloon level, what are you going to do here? We'll have to do the job again! If, politically, other concerns are raised in the Walloon Parliament, what are we going to do here? We'll have to do the job again. It's bad work! It's a draft! That doesn't make any sense. You yourself have already had to review your text at the Walloon level. If you are so sure of your federal text, send it to the Council of State! At least have that courage! These are the foundations of democracy. Today, an electoral district at the level of Hainaut is organized by creating this electoral district of the Centre. I believe that we all want it, but accept that the text is legally sound and accept that it reflects the demands of the communes concerned. This is not the case here! When he asked the Minister of the Interior about the deadline, he told us – his comments appear in the report of the committees – that "everything must be adopted by May 2018". May 2018! We have time! What is the reason for this urgency? Will the polls be, at some point, so bad for some of the partners, that he risks reconsidering his own position, whereas today he is embedded in a dynamic of the three traditional parties? I don't know! But there's one thing I still want to say, Mr. Flahaux. You were right to point out that it was thanks to, or because of, the winning appeal brought by the ecologists that today we are in a position to set up this electoral district. But why have the presidents of traditional parties never involved us in the discussions, when we are at the origin of this recourse? That is also a problem when it comes to organising the rules of operation of our democracy. That too, I could not let it go beyond the substantive remarks and legal remarks that we have developed here. I would also like to thank my colleague Vanden Burre – I was a member of the nuclear safety sub-committee – for participating in this discussion to present our elements, even if he could not convince us. I dared to hope, in plenary session and in the presence of two of the three presidents, who organised these meetings, that at least they would receive answers, or even consider a postponement of the vote, because it is a matter of respecting what the Minister of the Interior said, namely the order of things, first at the Walloon level and then at the federal level.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u160	Mr. Chair, Mr.Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking both as a Member of Parliament and as President of the Centre's urban community. Why the Centre's Urban Community? Because, for 40 years, we have been waiting to be recognized as a territory in its own right. For the last few years, we have been fighting. We have been recognized as a basin of life in education, employment and training and as a united territory in the field of tourism. We fought for our community and local television. It has been recognised; it has not been expelled from audiovisual territory. All this is important for people who have lived by default between Mons and Charleroi, cities that I particularly appreciate, Mr President. You can also tell Carolos friends. The Center is between Mons and Charleroi. The vote you are going to produce today will give this recognition to an area of 250,000 inhabitants. Forty years of waiting and, today, a unanimous will with an historic chance, it is true, thanks to a recourse from Ecolo to Luxembourg, which says that one must be able to be recognised proportionally and that indeed, the federations, as in Luxembourg or Thuin, do not produce four elected ones. We can discuss proportionality. I was third elected out of three socialists in Thuin, Mr. Nollet. You weren't very happy that day, but I see you're smiling at it today. You see, time can bring us closer. I also hope that time will do its work here. In Luxembourg, there is also room for change. Ecolo is on the initiative. And, as you know, I met with the representatives of Ecolo, your president, but also Mr Guérard, whom I will meet again because there is a unanimous will. I'm taking Mr. Flahaux to witness here in the courtroom. There is a unanimous will to obtain this constituency. When I say a unanimous will, we have gone further. Mrs. Winckel, we went to every communal council. Each communal council was able to vote in soul and conscience about the fate that would be given to this constituency in relation to its city, its commune. Two communes have chosen to join the district of Charleroi. Three more leave in Picardy Wallonia - the friends of the Tournaisis know it very well -: Lessines, Silly and Enghien. In the end, thanks to Ecolo and the presidents of the socialist, liberal and cdH parties, everyone was able to choose their destiny, which is essential. For there is much to be said about the will of the people! In this case, it is the will of the citizens. There were debates and votes in the communal councils. Oppositions between parties and even between trade unions and entrepreneurs have been transcended. Mr Flahaux and Mrs Winckel witnessed this: there really was this discussion between the political representatives, the entrepreneurs and the trade union representatives. We discussed it together. Today, I can tell you that the will has been unanimous: urgency! I don't want anyone to be able to file an appeal after October 14, 2018, Mr.Nollet! I do not want to give anyone the opportunity to fight democracy and the will of each other. This text obviously concerns the provincial elections. You have spoken of the Walloon Parliament! It's another speaker. But with regard to the provincial elections directly concerned with the cantons and districts, it will be directly on 14 October. I have read the reply of Mr Jan Jambon, Minister of the Interior. I read it well. This is a year compared to the regional elections. He will present a text himself. As far as I'm concerned, I'm talking about the provincial elections and that's why I'm here to ask you for urgency. I do it in the respect of everyone. Proportionality can be discussed for a very long time, but this is not the time for a debate on this subject. I will end my remarks by telling you that I am very proud to present this text to you today, which does not have to be presented to the Council of State, there are only three articles! That will not change. There are three articles and I discussed them yesterday with your colleague Mr Vanden Burre. There are three articles. Just pride! I thank the presidents of the various parties for taking on their responsibilities. It is not easy in the conflict and tense context that we know how to reach an agreement. But the citizens will be grateful. I would like to thank Messrs. Flahaux, Brotcorne and Friart and Mrs Winckel who were signatories. Ladies and gentlemen, I encourage you to vote for the text.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u161	Mr President, I am speaking to Mr Devin and Mr Flahaux, and I have a procedural problem. That was pointed out earlier. I did not have the opportunity to participate in the committee discussions because of my hospitalization. I note today that at the very last minute, we come with a text that I have not had the opportunity to analyse since, normally, it was not voted on today. For my part, the idea of the electoral district of the Centre has always seemed excellent for two reasons. First of all because the Centre presents a social unit that would make sense a constituency that follows this division. Secondly, there must be a minimum number of elected representatives in order for democratic rules to work. A larger constituency is therefore the guarantee of a better democracy. However, I discover the text and I see that we do not have a borough of the Centre - administrative in any case; electorally we have to see how this translates - but a borough of Soignies and a borough of La Louvière. Two boroughs of the Centre! I'd like to understand the logic. We no longer follow the principle of unity in the Central Region, nor that of a sufficient number of elected representatives. Perhaps there is a difference between the administrative district and the electoral district that will depend on it, but in the text submitted today, I see only that. So I'd like an explanation. What exactly is this? It is therefore the problem of having to decide quickly on a text that was presented to us at the last minute in plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u162	Mr President, I would like to ask Mr Devin about the thanks he has given here in the rostrum to the presidents of traditional parties, two of whom are present. Mr. Devin, how do you interpret in this context the response provided by Walloon Minister-President Magnette in April when my party indicated that it was seeking to participate in the discussions? I will quote Mr Magnette's answer: "In fact, I have never hidden it, there are contacts between the bodies of the political parties since it goes beyond the borders of the majority. I have informed the party presidents that I meet from time to time that there is a wish of your formation – Ecolo in this case – to be associated with this level of reflection. I hope this message will eventually find its way." I also say this to Mr Di Rupo and Mr Lutgen, this path has never been found, and I regret it! I regret that because commitments have been made. But we had ideas about it. We have had to pass them on by amendments and we will make them again by amendments to the Walloon Parliament. I hope that what is not possible here, which has not been possible in the past, will still be possible during the forty-five days in the Walloon Parliament. If that is the case, we will have to talk about the same text here! Mr Devin, that is why I wanted to distinguish an agreement on the principle of creating an electoral district – like others, I say one electoral district – from the Centre, and not two. And that is why I regret the way in which you have proceeded with this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u163	Mr President, I am not here to argue. In reply to my colleague, Mr. Van Hees, who comes from the Central Region, is talking about the provincial elections, with two different boroughs for the electoral district, as explained in the media. There is only one electoral district for the entire Central Region for Walloon regional elections. Mr Nollet, I think your question was more to party presidents. I suggest that you refer it to your two co-chairs. Take the necessary contacts. As you know very well, since I have already spoken to you in a very respectful way, I myself have made contact with the Ecolo leaders of the Central and Hainaut region and with the party's presidency. You know, I know my limits, too. Other people take on other responsibilities and take on them very well.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u164	Mr Nollet, in each of our communal councils, the Ecolo elected representatives participated fully in the same deliberations. The townmaster Ecolo of Enghien approved the passage to Western Hainaut without any difficulty. To reply to Mr. Van Hees, as Mr Devin has just said, there will be only one electoral district of the Centre for Regional Elections.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u165	Mr President, this does not respond to my request. I know our mayor's position perfectly well. We are also in favour of it. I already said it. But that does not answer at all. I note the silence of Mr Lutgen and Mr Di Rupo, when I have indirectly, and now directly, questioned them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u166	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u167	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2673/6) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2673/6) The title was changed by the Committee to "draft legislation amending the table referred to in Article 87 of the Choosing Code in order to adapt the canton structure of the Hainaut constituency." The title was amended by the Commission to "proposal for a law amending the table referred to in article 87 of the Electoral Code with a view to adapting the cantonal structure of the electoral district of Hainaut". The bill has 2 articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u168	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u169	By mail of 11 September 2017, Mr François-Xavier de Donnéa shall resign as a member of the Federal Deontological Commission for the category "Former Members of the Chamber of Representatives and/or the Senate'. By e-mail of 11 September 2017, Mr François-Xavier de Donnéa presented his resignation as a member of the Federal Ethics Commission for the category "Former members of the House of Representatives and/or the Senate". In accordance with Article 10 (1) of the Act of 6 January 2014 establishing a Federal Deontological Commission, the Chamber provides for a replacement for the remainder of Mr de Donnéa's term of office. Pursuant to article 10, paragraph 1, of the Act of 6 January 2014 establishing a Federal Ethics Commission, the Chamber provides for the replacement of Mr. de Donnéa for the remainder of his term of office. The committee consists of six Dutch-speaking and six French-speaking members, each with one magistrate or professor, three former members of the Chamber of Representatives and/or the Senate and two former public officials. The Commission consists of six French-speaking members and six Dutch-speaking members, including for each linguistic role, a magistrate or professor, three former members of the House of Representatives and/or the Senate and two former public representatives. A maximum of two thirds of the members may be of the same sex. A maximum of two thirds of the members shall be of the same sex. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 26 September 2017, I propose that you publish an appeal to French-speaking candidates in the Belgian Official Journal for the category "Former Members of the Chamber of Representatives and/or the Senate" in place of Mr François-Xavier de Donnéa. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 26 September 2017, I propose that you publish in the Belgian Moniteur an appeal to French candidates for the category "Former members of the House of Representatives and/or the Senate", in place of Mr François-Xavier de Donnéa. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u170	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 4 October 2017, I also propose the proposal for a resolution (Mrs Catherine Fonck) on better guidance for patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, No. 2687/1 to be considered.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u171	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 4 October 2017, I also propose that you take into account the motion for a resolution (Ms Catherine Fonck) to improve the management of patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, No 2687/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u172	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u173	This inquiry was developed in public meeting of the Commission on Public Health, the Environment and the Renewal of the Society on 26 September 2017. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for Health, the Environment and the Social Renewal of 26 September 2017. Two motions were tabled (MOT nr. 228/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Muriel Gerkens; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Els Van Hoof in MM. Wouter Raskin and Stefaan Vercamer. Two motions were tabled (MOT n° 228/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Muriel Gerkens; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Els Van Hoof and Mr Wouter Raskin and Mr Stefaan Vercamer. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put that motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u174	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have a little difficulty accepting that a simple motion has been tabled following the inquiries and questions concerning the non-accessibility of the DG People with Disabilities call centre, as a result of the problems of staff, the governance of this service and the IT tool that has been inappropriately changed. The Secretary of State acknowledged that the situation, although improving, remained highly problematic. She acknowledged that there were indeed problems in the management and governance of the service. She acknowledged that there were concerns in the proposed computer system change model. I have drawn her attention to situations of potential conflicts of interest that are intriguing in the choices that have been made, and she has also acknowledged that. My motion for a recommendation simply seeks to ask the government to finally address the governance and accountability issues of the Social Security FPS and the Disability DG. It also calls for sufficient attention to be paid to all these potential conflicts of interest that have led to the choice of software that is now being disposed of despite the costs involved. It is necessary to check whether the public procurement rules have been complied with and to ensure that the administration does not have to repay the company with which the contract had to be broken.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u175	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Everyone has -Does he vote and check his vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 78 Yes No. 58 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u176	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 134 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2589/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2589/4) Mr Van Hees and Mr Hedebouw voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u177	At the request of the Ecolo-Green Group, we shall first vote separately on Article 2. Vote on Article 2. Vote on Article 2. Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 125 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 10 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, Article 2 has been adopted. Accordingly, article 2 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 41 by Stefaan Van Hecke cs to omit Article 3. (1008/12) Vote on Amendment No 41 by Stefaan Van Hecke cs to delete Article 3. (1008/12) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 34 Yes No. 94 No Abstentions 7 Abstensions Total 135 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u178	At the request of the Ecolo-Green Group, we shall vote separately on Article 3. Vote on Article 3. Vote on Article 3. Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 83 Yes No. 50 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, Article 3 has been adopted. Accordingly, article 3 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]] Mr. Foret voted in favour. Vote on Amendment No 42 by Stefaan Van Hecke cs to omit Article 12. (1008/12) Vote on Amendment No 42 by Stefaan Van Hecke cs to delete Article 12. (1008/12) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 52 Yes No. [[84]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 12 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 12 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 43 by Karine Lalieux cs to insert an article 14 (n). (1008/12) Vote on Amendment No 43 by Karine Lalieux cs to insert an Article 14(n). (1008/12) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes [[45]] Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 8 Abstensions Total 136 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u179	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u180	Mr President, our group will support this proposal. I must improve Mr Lachaert when he says that his party colleague's first initiative came in the previous legislature. Our initiative, which has also been added to this proposal, has been going on for a few more years. We are therefore pleased that there will finally be a entanglement. I hope that my fellow Members will realise that this is certainly not an end. This proposal does not go far enough. The procedures are still too long, and as far as uninhabited buildings are concerned, it is absolutely not enough for us that only the owner can complain to the police. We believe that it can be stricter, but this proposal is certainly a step in the right direction. Our group will certainly support it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u181	Mr President, the occupation of an untitled building exists. It is a source of tension in our society that we are not unaware of. But this problem must be part of a global reflection and in line with housing policy. Far from fantasies and fears, solutions must be thoughtful and effective. Yet, despite the protection of the fundamental rights of all, the proposal rules with cannon balls of realities as varied as they are complex. We therefore regret that the majority did not follow the informed advice of the justices of the peace and police. In their view, much would be needed to make existing civil procedures more effective, a path that my group remains open to. To mark this opening, I will abstain symbolically in denouncing the unacceptable drifts of the proposal. The rest of the group will vote against. In the future, my group will think about making it possible to react better in the event of an occupation of an already inhabited house, but for the time being we regret this penalisation of the squat. On this basis, our group will take a parliamentary initiative because it is indeed unacceptable that housing should be occupied without title or right.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u182	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes [[84]] Yes No. [[29]] No Abstentions 22 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (1008/13) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (1008/13) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u183	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes 88 Yes No. [[20]] No Abstentions 28 Abstensions Total 136 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2532/8) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2532/8) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u184	Vote on Amendment No 2 of Veerle Wouters cs inserting a chapter 6 (n) and an article 17 (n). (2639/5) Vote on Amendment No 2 by Veerle Wouters cs to insert a Chapter 6(n) and an Article 17(n). (2639/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes [[10]] Yes No. 119 No Abstentions 7 Abstensions Total 136 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? MM. Pierre-Olivier Delannois and Philippe Blanchart voted against.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u185	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes 100 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 35 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2639/6) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2639/6) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Mrs Isabelle Galant voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u186	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 12) Yes [[114]] Yes No. [[14]] No Abstentions 7 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (2673/7) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (2673/7) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-05-54-plenair-ip186x.u187	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for the week of 9 October 2017. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sittings for the week of October 9, 2017. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Tuesday 10 October 2017 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Tuesday, 10 October 2017 at 2.15 p.m.
