ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u2	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that today's plenary session began with a minute's silence for the victims of Islam terror. That would have been the sixteenth time in a short time. But this time we were very lucky. We were lucky because the Moroccan Oussama Zarioh from Molenbeek turned out to be an amateur. We were particularly lucky, because his nail bomb didn't explode immediately. Whether or not he has a chance at 72 virgins because of his failed attack, is not certain, but it is a certainty that, thanks to the left-wing parties here behind me, he did not have a chance at 72 hours of arrest. Yes, the military have prevented worse. A word of thanks to all those cold-blooded professional safety people, who risk their lives every day to protect ours, is more than in place today. Ladies and gentlemen, the question is not whether these soldiers belong on the streets today or not. Of course they're needed. However, the question is why they are needed. What kind of government policy does that mean that our military will have to take an extra risk? This is a policy of open borders and of facilitating Islamisation. Perhaps you could ask yourself whether it is not because of a completely different immigration policy that the threat level in countries such as Poland, the Czech Republic and Hungary is maintained at level 0 until today. Mr Minister, I come to my questions. I'd like to get an update on your Molenbeek clean-up, where there's obviously still a lot of work to be done. How is it possible that the killer of the attack - and I refuse to call it like you do, it was indeed an attack - was not known by any service? He was friends with salafistic preachers; he had already had several clashes with the court and he had been active on social media for years to glorify hate preachers and jihadans there. Even the attack on the editors of Charlie Hebdo in January 2015 was the subject of mockery for him. Finally, when will you acknowledge the causes of the terrorist threats? As long as you dare not mention that we are at war with radical Islam, you will not take the appropriate measures to ban Islam terrorism from this country.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u3	Mr President, Mr Minister of the Interior, ladies and gentlemen, I would like first of all to pay tribute to the forces of law and order, to the security forces which - as everyone has pointed out - intervened with great professionalism, speed and cold blood during this abortive attack. I think it was important to stress that. It is also the image of our country. All the testimonies are unanimous. That evening, the many tourists were taken home in their own language. This accompaniment, and the way things have happened, is proof of great professionalism. I wanted to join in the government's tributes. I also wanted to say, and everyone pointed out, that we were very lucky. He was an amateur; the explosive charge didn't work properly. According to the information we have, which you may confirm, it was an extremely dangerous explosive and this charge could have caused a great many casualties. We will agree that opportunity cannot be used as a political strategy and that we must continue to review and consolidate our counter-terrorism mechanisms. Mr Minister of the Interior, at this stage, what can you tell us about this author, how he radicalised himself, his possible networks, contacts he may have had with other perpetrators of terrorist attacks in Belgium or abroad? According to our information, the explosive used was TATP. Does this not show that the current reporting and regulatory system is not effective and that it is still possible to obtain explosives precursors in our country, either by buying them abroad or by obtaining them on the Belgian market? What is your assessment? Should not the reporting and regulatory system for TATP and explosives precursors be reviewed? In addition, the soldier who fired was in self-defence. Could he have fired earlier? I hear there is a discussion today between the police unions and the government about the clarity of the rules of engagement. Shouldn't they be re-evaluated? Another issue concerns the Canal Plan. On paper, it is a good model but visibly, it suffers cruelly from a lack of resources. Do you intend to increase them? What about the establishment of a special protection force? That was the government's announcement a year ago.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u4	Mr Minister, the day before yesterday we were shocked again by an attack in the Brussels Central Station. Such attacks raise some questions and concerns. First of all, the services have done a good job. We may address a word of appreciation to the military who were there and have certainly proved their worth. Secondly, I regret that, despite the efforts of these people, some groups feel that they should have a polemic about the meaning and the nonsense, the durability, the duration and so on. Let us be satisfied that this attack was thwarted, let us remember that we live in exceptional circumstances. The threat level is still at three and this requires exceptional measures, such as the presence of military personnel. Everyone in the hemisphere would like the threat level to go down, but none of us can predict when that will happen. Thirdly, could such a thing be avoided by improving the flow of certain information? As much as we do our best, we will never arrive at a watertight system, Minister. What are the conclusions you are making as a result of this unfortunate yet yet another attack? What is the state of play regarding the implementation of security measures? Should there be coordination in this area between the work of the police and the army?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u5	Mr President, Minister, this Tuesday, our soldiers deployed as part of the Vigilant Guardian mission effectively foiled a terrorist attack at Central Station. The author was shot dead. There are no injuries. But who, today, would still consider questioning the deployment of the military on our streets, which is one of the very first steps to be taken by the federal government in the aftermath of the intervention in Verviers? While we must rejoice at the effectiveness of military personnel, we also know that, from the moment of the neutralization of the author, it is all police work, all intelligence work that starts and that every minute counts in order to dislodge possible accomplices. Minister, since Tuesday night, have any new, complementary or other measures been taken with regard to soft targets? Is the presence further strengthened? Is Securail a partner? Do you have any additional information about the author? Is it a lone wolf? Does it work in a network? In addition, I would like to ask you questions about police cooperation. If I am well informed, approximately eight hours have elapsed between the neutralization and the search of the author's home. I assume that this delay is linked to the time required to identify the person and to mobilize the special units. I'm thinking about them anyway. Could you therefore confirm to us that we in Belgium have sufficient resources to be able to intervene effectively and effectively in a theatre of operation such as the author's home? Finally, I would like to ask you about the next day's raids. The Brussels-West area has been duly informed of this, which is perfect because it has not always been so. It seems to me that the conclusions of the Committee of Inquiry are not unrelated to it. But this area was no longer associated with the search operations and only learned the result from the prosecutor's committee. I am sure there are reasons for this and I respect them. Can you tell us more? Can you confirm, I hope, that there is excellent co-operation between federal and local governments on this type of operation? Thank you already, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u6	Mr President, Minister, of course we are all pleased that the military have prevented worse. They played their part perfectly. I believe that the debate on the presence or otherwise of military personnel on the streets is closed. However, we must also be honest. We were very lucky that the bomb was pretty amateur-like. I personally find it rather frightening that one can still manage to penetrate the heart of Brussels Central with such a nail bomb. I also find it frightening that three parameters are constantly coming back, the same. First of all, the unsub has already come into contact with the court. Secondly, there is a connection with Molenbeek or the Channel Zone. Thirdly, there is a strong bond with radicalized Islam. Actually, the profile is known, but still, in his back kitchen, someone like that can craft a nail bomb. It seems clear to me that the Channel Zone has not yet been cleaned up. Our system of detecting potential terrorists has clearly not worked optimally here. We are still unable to detect such signals and to give them the necessary consequences. My question is as follows. How will you adjust? After all, after every incident and every attack, I suppose you'll correct it. How will you make concrete adjustments to monitor the profile of the perpetrator more closely and to take preventive action more quickly? I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we have indeed escaped a tragedy and we are all aware of that. It could have gone a lot worse. We also very sincerely appreciate the professionalism and the coolness of the soldiers, policemen, the staff of SNCB and the citizens who were there. However, it also immediately makes us realize how vulnerable our society has become, despite the hundreds of millions of additional budgets that have been approved, despite the new strict terror laws that have been adopted here in the Chamber in recent months, despite the long-standing threat level 3 and despite the deployment of military forces in the streets. The threat is changing. Today's great danger comes mainly from lones, and often from people who have not gone to Syria, but who in the short term radicalize for their computer screen. They are not known to the police and intelligence services for acts of terror or for radicalism. We must be very aware of that. This clearly exceeds the demand for the usefulness of military deployment. Even if one would place soldiers or policemen in every station, in every public building and in every shopping street, one cannot prevent certain people, lone wolves, planning, with a backpack coming out onto the street and acting. A certain humility is, in my opinion, appropriate. For us, security of public space buildings is indeed a central task of the police. However, we also know that the police are under very heavy pressure. We have also noted this in the work of the Terrorist Attacks Committee of Inquiry. In the Federal Police, there is a framework of 13 500 policemen, which has been filled up to 11 000. The pressure is very heavy and so the use of military personnel is, temporarily, indeed necessary, but for us this cannot and should not be a structural measure in the long term. I want to make that clear. Ladies and gentlemen, the report has been ready since last week. In the meantime, the government was able to take note of it and now it is up to it to take action. Hence the following specific questions, Minister. What is the government's reaction to the findings of the Committee of Inquiry? How will you implement the recommendations for which you can take initiatives? I am thinking here of some very specific problems, such as the lack of resources and staff in the federal police, the problematic functioning of the ADIV or the lack of cooperation and exchange of information. Minister, I would like to hear your response to the report and the recommendations.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u8	Mr President, Minister, I agree with all the previous speakers who have rightly referred to the professionalism of the security services and to the communication of SNCB and even of the federal police. I am not too sad to say that the Prime Minister has also communicated correctly and responded to what others have underlined, in particular that we have escaped something. We have escaped something, and that has partly to do with the amateurism of the man in question. Mr Degroote, perhaps I was even more annoyed than you were at the time, when the drama was hardly over and the Prime Minister still had to communicate, some politicians thought it necessary to try to shine on their hats or formulate hostilitys. I absolutely share your view that the perception battle about who should be the toughest and strongest party in security policy was erupting very quickly. Mr Vice Prime Minister, it is not the first time that I have stressed that security must not be the scene of political profiling or games at the expense of others. Efficiency must be paramount. In that connection, I have two questions. Firstly, I read in the newspaper that your party chairman is calling for unity of command and for the merger of the Brussels police zones, in order to raise the level of security in Brussels. Will the policy of obstruction be abandoned, which we have been undergoing for a year and a few months now in the Terrorist Attacks Committee of Inquiry? Will it be effective to do what the Minister of Justice and CD&V, as well as your chairman, and what is evident, in particular, to create unity of command and establish a sound security structure in the capital? This week, as mayor, after two years of pressing, I finally received an e-mail regarding the direct access of the police area to the camera networks in the stations. This is also not insignificant in the research currently under way in Brussels, to see where the man took the metro and where he moved at the Brussels-Central station. Well, you believe me or not, Minister, but according to this e-mail, the images are no longer to be retrieved by fax but can now be retrieved by e-mail. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, it must be possible to remove obstacles of this kind. I call for efficiency to be included on the agenda and for this to be dealt with without taboos.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u9	Mr President, Minister, we have just recalled that our country has been subjected to another terrorist attack. I do not wish to take this opportunity to argue, or to ask if we could have done better or otherwise. It is always easy to rewrite history and a judicial investigation is under way. Minister, I would like to take this opportunity to thank the soldiers who provide the safety and security of our citizens on a daily basis. These men and women, for the past two years, have also risked their lives to protect ours. I would also like to thank the police forces. We have seen this in our commission of inquiry into terrorist attacks: they have been subjected to terrible pressure on a daily basis for several months or even years. I would like to take this rostrum to thank all those involved in the security chain who, in our country, are subjected to this extremely difficult and painful daily state of mind, and who continue to do their work to protect all our citizens. I would like to draw your attention to two points in connection with the Committee of Inquiry into Terrorist Attacks, chaired by our excellent colleague Patrick Dewael, who approved an important report on the reform of the security, police and intelligence services. First, it has been pointed out – and you have learned of this information – that there are difficulties in coordinating all the services, in any case with regard to the facts of 22 March and the terrorist events that preceded that date. Here, it must be admitted – at least, depending on the elements available – that the coordination that has been put in place to prevent this attack should be welcomed. Then there's a question, and she's not perfidious, I assure you. Unanimously, we have highlighted the fact that both in the police services – at the federal police, in the police areas, in the community police – or in the intelligence services – whether it is the State Security or the General Intelligence and Security Service – there is a glaring lack of human and technological resources that absolutely must be filled. Minister, what are your intentions and those of the government in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u10	Mr President, Mr Vice-Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we have just rightly said that we have crawled through the eye of the needle. Fortunately, the attack failed, because the perpetrator failed in his intent, but also because the people who were on the scene reacted very alertly. The debate on the presence of military forces that raged yesterday and was to be read in the newspapers this morning, I would say rather that: who is doing what to ensure our security? It may be a useful debate, but it is not a priority today. Today, in this case of terrorist threat, it is our absolute duty to ensure maximum security for citizens. This is a work of many and, of course, they all deserve praise: the military, the police, the magistrates, but not less the people from education, the prevention workers, the community services. They all deserve praise for the difficult work they have to perform under pressure in recent years. It has already been said, the facts of Tuesday show how vulnerable our society has become. Because one thing is certain: that man, with a so-called homemade bomb, has also entered the station. It teaches us how fragile we are. But that is also a constant that we find in other countries in the attacks of recent months: Germany with Berlin, London, Manchester, Istanbul, even the United States, and of course France. We are not the only ones facing these problems: how does one detect in good time lonely wolves acting on their own? Absolute security, ladies and gentlemen, and we must also confess this to the people, we must strive for it, but we will never achieve that target at 200 percent. Minister, the parliamentary committee of inquiry made recommendations not only last week, but also last year, including with regard to the crisis centre and with regard to the management centre to take over command from the provincial level. There were also recommendations on the secure internet, where all actors could receive the same information at the same time. How far is it a year later with those recommendations from that hatch? You and the Prime Minister have called together the National Security Council. Many measures have already been taken by the current government and by Parliament. Have they had any effect on the terrain as a result of the incident? Finally, Mr President, I would like to put my final question. We call on aid workers and police officers to do exercises often. However, there is a difference between exercises and the tough reality. Tuesday was the hardest reality. There are many schematics and many golden theories. Implementing them in practice, however, is a lot harder. Mr Deputy Prime Minister, how did the people on the ground work together, not only the military, but also the police, the local police, the railway police and the other police? What effects has the federalisation of the file had? How did the actors in the field work together during the management of the very serious incident?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u11	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a lot has already been said and many questions have already been asked. In any event, it is rational and sensible to await further investigation in order to assess precisely the factors and factors which led to the failure of the attack. I can now confine myself to three observations. Firstly, Minister for the Interior, you have communicated quite correctly. You asked the right questions. In that question I found a few points which have also been regularly raised in the Committee of Inquiry. They were, as it were, rhetorical questions. Do we want to end up in a police state? You asked that question. If we could have a police force on every corner of every street, in every town hall and in every station, would we? Does our society want to live in such a police state? The answer is negative to me. We also note that attacks continue to be possible in countries which receive the predicate "police state" or "dictatorial" status. There is often a lot of power in those countries. In return, citizens get some virtual security in return. So that question of yours was entirely justified. Secondly, it is also important to refer to the reaction of people and citizens. We feel seamlessly that there are limits to everything that we are reasonably trying to do to ensure safety. People know that whatever the government does, and even though we proceed to the immediate and full implementation of all the recommendations of the Commission 22/03, it is still a risk that such attacks are possible. People know that. Politicians should be sober in this respect, even in their communication, when they see how people react. The next morning they go back to the stations, the next evening they go to a concert. People just keep doing what they do, and that's what graces them. They refuse to accept a climate of terror. I think this is the best answer we have to give: never diminish our behavior, our way of life and our way of doing and acting. Thirdly, does that mean that politics should do nothing and we simply move on to the order of the day and watch patiently because this is inevitable? No. My motto remains, also on behalf of the committee that I was allowed to chair, to remain within the limits of the rule of law. I always notice that some try to push these boundaries. Then I wonder why. Why push boundaries when one can and must respond within the limits of a rule of law? We have a kind of commitment in this area. We have a fucking duty to develop all the means that we can develop within a democratic rule of law. I'm getting to the point of the military. Why don't you stop the polemic about that? Military have played an important role in this and will continue to do so in the coming months. Why? Today we see that the police frameworks, which assume 13 500 units, have been filled in for 11 000 units. That is the reality. For this reason alone, there is a complementary position in the military. Does that make their role and their function less important today? No, but it does not relieve us of the obligation to effectively fill in these frameworks as soon as possible. That is also one of the committee's recommendations. I like khaki on the street, but I'd much rather see blue on the street. We urgently need to fill that out on the streets. What action will you take in the short term? Cooking costs money, and more blue on the street presupposes budgetary resources. In this respect, you have the support of a broad majority in the Committee of Inquiry.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your contribution to the debate. Of course, I fully agree with all those who have paid tribute to the security services, to the soldiers in the street, to the police who took over the case and conducted the investigation, to the staff of SNCB, Securail, the crisis centre and all the staff who gave the best of themselves on that day with only one objective: the security of our society, to make it possible to live in this society. Yes, it is true, one cannot deny that, we escaped something worse that day because of the amateurism of the man in question. I think this is a correct analysis. We've escaped something worse. Some of you have asked me about the current state of investigations and the facts on the ground. I'll let you know the state of affairs that's provided to me by OCAM. First, on 20 June 2017, shortly before 21:00, a man tried to detonate his suitcase near a group of people in Brussels' central station. His luggage was inflamed and the individual could only cause a partial explosion that did not cause any injuries, as the targeted persons had been able to escape. He then headed for a wharf. At that time, her suitcase exploded a second time slightly more violently but still causing only superficial material damage. The author then returned to the lobby. He rushed to a soldier shouting "Allah Akbar". The soldier used his weapon to neutralize him, causing his death. The targets were citizens who were clearly randomly chosen. What was his modus operandi? He used a suitcase filled with explosives. The explosive device only partially exploded. During the search of the author's home, the investigators found equipment that could be used to make explosives. The explosive he used contained nails and gas cylinders. The author is unknown from OCAM. He arrived in Belgium in 2002 with a student visa. It is included in the BNG for acts of common law dating back a few years and related to domestic violence. We have no information about a possible radicalisation of the person concerned. He obviously acted alone. With regard to its activity on social networks, the survey has not yet revealed direct links with persons concerned by the FTF problem. It is clear that these investigations continue. As soon as we get results, I'll let you know. For the time being, direct links cannot yet be highlighted. He would, on the other hand, have been in contact with a radical imam. The very nature of the contacts with this imam still needs to be investigated. Fortunately, the record amounts to the sole death of the author of the facts. With regard to the level of the threat, given the lack of a network around the perpetrator of the facts which, according to the evidence currently available, would have acted alone, the OCAM maintained the serious level 3 terrorist threat. Nevertheless, the investigation is ongoing and the OCAM immediately analyses all new information, in order to change the level of the threat, if any. These are the elements communicated by the OCAM. Some of you have asked what lessons we are drawing from this. A number of speakers, including Mr Dewael, have said that we must not deceive the citizens that we are capable of creating a 100 percent safe society. I agree with those words. We could theoretically think of that if there were no budgetary constraints. However, I ask you whether that is the type of society we want. We can theoretically place metal detectors at any entrance to the metro or station. Is that the kind of society we want to live in? I believe that asking the question is an answer to them as well. However, I do not want to avoid my responsibility. There are a number of lessons that can be drawn. I will not draw any conclusions yet, but there are two elements that we need to examine further. Firstly, after the attacks in Zaventem we trained the airport police in BDO behaviour detection. They look at how people behave and try to detect suspicious behaviors. Yesterday in the Security Council I asked the Commissioner-General of the police if we should not generalise this competence for police officers on the ground. Should we not include this technique to detect suspicious behaviors in basic training? I am thinking not only of the police, but also of metro personnel, Securail and other safety professions. This is a technique that allows you to detect very quickly when someone is acting suspiciously. If one has seen the footage, it has been found that this person did show some suspicious behavior. If the military had received that training, they might have intercepted that man before he got on the platform. This is a first question I have asked the police so that it can be verified that this is possible. Secondly, how could this man radicalize without this appearing on radar? Here again, I do not want to conclude two days after the facts, but I think we should check out the local LIVC. This is about Molenbeek again, but I can assure you that Molenbeek's LIVC is doing a good job. I'm not throwing them a stone, but we need to see if there were any signals that could have been detected, but for which perhaps the right people are not in that LIVC. I am not judging, I am not yet drawing any conclusions, but we need to look into it very quickly and see if we should adjust the LIVCs. I am particularly fond of the workings of the LIVCs, by the way. We are preparing enlargement throughout the territory, because today only about half of the municipalities are active in a LIVC. A number of punctual questions were also asked. Mrs Pas, you asked for an update of the Channel Plan. I've given it a few times. A huge number of actions have taken place. The Channel Plan also has an enormous appeal, because municipalities that were not originally involved in the Channel Plan are now knocking on the door to join it. However, if you ask me whether I have been able to correct a situation that has gone wrong for 20 years in ten months, then I do indeed have to respond negatively. However, we have already achieved results on the ground. I invite you to contact the local government in Molenbeek and other municipalities, and I will confirm them to you. Mr Dallemagne, the rules of engagement of the military are very clear: they can defend themselves or the environment. In this case, it is clearly a question of defending the environment. And this is not being discussed. As always, the prosecutor's office conducts an investigation into what happened. It is obvious that, in this situation, the military remained within the framework of their rules of engagement. The current rules are perfect and there is no reason to change them. You asked me about the state of the protection forces, the DAB, the Directorate of General Protection within the police. The decisions are ready. The budget is there: the Thematic Council of Ministers has freed up the necessary money. And we started recruiting. In the first phase, we will incorporate the justice security corps into this DAB and expand the system of this body, so that we no longer have to use local police to strengthen the security corps and that these forces remain active in the local police force. Mr Pivin, you asked me if there would be a strengthening of the arrangements on the ground. Yes, after the attempted attack, we immediately increased them. As long as the judicial investigation continues, we will keep these measures and when its results are known, we will see what decisions we will make. For the time being, I confirm that we have increased the number of staff. According to my information, I have not heard any criticism of local and federal cooperation. Normally, however, negative comments are soon known. Depending on the reactions I received, there would be good collaboration between the local and federal levels. My time is limited, Mr President, but I would like to say the following in the debate on the military. We are in a period of terrorist threat level 3. All of us assume it's temporary. Yes, we need to strengthen the police, but not for exceptional circumstances. The police must be strengthened in order to carry out their duties. That's what we're doing. I recruited 1 600 police officers last year. This year and the following years I will recruit 1 400 each time. Mr Dewael, we have given priority to the departments associated with the fight against terrorism, but the road police are also understaffed. That's why we've all got more manpower. However, we are faced with a limitation on the capacity of schools. Check it out, the schools are full. Every month, trained policemen come out. The schools are full. We recruit according to our maximum capacity. We will do the same in the following years. Meanwhile, we'll need the military. They have proved their worth more than proved their worth. As far as the long-term deployment of military personnel is concerned, once we are out of threat level 3, I am happy to say that it is done with the soldiers on the street. Then one must be able to handle things with the normal capacity of the police. Mr Van Hecke, you asked me how the government will respond to the report of the parliamentary committee of inquiry. As we said in the first interim report, we will make maximum commitment to implement the recommendations. It is decent work, which has been widely supported by a broad majority in the Chamber. Who are we, as executive power, not to do the best we can with that? The first thing we will do now is to divide the recommendations into a number of categories. There are recommendations that require legislative work, and there are recommendations that we can implement immediately, through KBs or ministerial decisions. In the legislative work we will look with Parliament at what can best be done through a government initiative or a parliamentary initiative. So the first thing we will do is agree on a method of putting the recommendations of the parliamentary committee of inquiry into practice as soon as possible. Mr Bonte, with regard to the merger of the zones, I am very much in favour of this, not only of the Brussels police zones. I believe that we need to rationalise the 189 areas, which are going to be 188 in this country. What is true for Brussels... I support that vision... is actually true for the whole country. That is why I have instructed Mr Brice De Ruyver and Mr Koekelberg to look together with the local authorities at what is the ideal waist from every police area. When will the economies of scale be large enough to achieve a more efficient police force? That study is currently under way. I look forward with great interest to the results, and then to a model that we can implement. Mr Frédéric, I have answered the question of means for staff. We are currently engaged, but the schools are full. Mr Verherstraeten, you asked about the crisis center. Immediately after the first interim report of the Committee of Inquiry, we started work. Its recommendations are also of a technological nature. The market survey is ongoing. I am committed to the full implementation of these recommendations. You ask me if there are any measures that will have an effect on the ground. A number of measures have been taken to avoid a number of things. The measure that had the most effect the day before yesterday is the measures taken by the soldiers on the streets. I'll conclude with a call. I believe that together we all have a responsibility, including Parliament, to ensure that our society does not carry out the agenda of the terrorists and throw away our freedoms and our values. We must be able to pursue our policy and, not driven by fear or panic, remain attentive and strictly implement the recommendations of the security services. The last thing we want is for the terrorists to be able to achieve their agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u13	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer, but I do have some elements of reply. Firstly, you have had more than ten months to correct distorted situations. You've had three years to do that. Secondly, I asked you about the screening on the Internet. How come that jihadist has been able to show sympathy for jihad terror through Facebook for years? I didn't get an answer. Thirdly, I am pleased that in the meantime everyone is convinced that the soldiers on the street are desperately needed. However, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that, unfortunately, the same lax justice policy, the same immigration policy, Islamisation and asylum policy will continue to require them. After all, we must not generalize the problem. Mr Verherstraeten referred to Germany, France and the United Kingdom, where there are similar problems. That is true, but it does not affect the whole of Europe. It's just the countries with a lot of Muslim immigration. I have already referred to Hungary, Poland, the Czech Republic, where it seems that this is not the case thanks to a different immigration policy. It is emphasized that it is a loner who acted alone, the so-called lone wolf. Meanwhile, all those lone wolves together have become a very large pack. They all have the same inspiration. That's the big problem. That concludes me, Mr President. People are afraid to mention the problem by name. You too use the term radicalisation, as if we could have a problem with radicalizing Buddhists. Minister, the raging Muslim fundamentalism must be removed with root and branch. You're gonna have to work on that. Finally, Mr Dewael has just mentioned that we should not lose sight of our daily lives. I fully agree with that; terrorists are not allowed to set our agenda. At the same time, I reject the message given by some people, namely that we must learn to live with it. Terrorism is not normal, it requires a firm approach; it requires a different approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u14	Mr. Minister of the Interior, thank you for this detailed answer. You are right, the equation we are faced with, like all democracies, is both to better protect citizens, to check which devices protect them best, without harming our fundamental freedoms. We keep it like the plum of our eyes. Preserving our freedoms, our way of life, our values is what this is about in the fight against terrorism. You mentioned a series of elements. We will learn from your answers in the coming weeks because it is a little early to have answers to all the questions. I imagine you will come back to Parliament to answer some specific questions. I would like to return to two points. First of all, the precursors of explosives, which you did not mention at all in your answer. I think this continues to be a very serious concern. And I believe that the mechanism that has been put in place is absolutely not effective. These are commonly used products, which makes things more difficult. But we must at least recognize that this mechanism is not working. There is a call number to the SPF Economy for explosives precursors, which, in principle, is open 24 hours a day. I tried to reach this service several times, and I didn't talk to anyone who was aware of what to do, the number of alerts, etc. I didn't get an answer to my questions and eventually I was told to write. Clearly, these issues are not sufficiently taken seriously. Then you reported that there had been contact with a radical imam. You know my fight to prevent the Islam of Belgium from being influenced by Islam that is contrary to our values, hostile to our values and to our society. This is the third part of our Committee of Inquiry into Terrorist Attacks. I think it will be important for us to have strong recommendations in this area, which are being followed by the government, because it is an extremely serious problem for our society.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u15	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer and for your responsibility. It has indeed been shown that, in the interests of our security, we must ensure permanent vigilance. Speaking of vigilance, even if we use all means, 100 percent security will never be guaranteed. Mrs Pas has said here that the perpetrator on the Internet has been able to do his thing for years. Mrs Pas, I am sorry that you are only now discovering this and are only now coming forward with it. You also spoke about the LIVCs, Minister. I hope that every municipality that does not yet have a LIVC will now be convinced and will work on its creation without delay. Finally, all parties agree on the usefulness and commitment of the military in the streets. We at N-VA believe that all law enforcement services deserve our sympathy. Not only our sympathy and support in certain circumstances such as today, but consistently, both in good days and in bad days. I am sorry that there are certain statements circulating as if they had to peel pats. I don't think that's the best thing to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u16	Minister, thank you for your full and responsible response. At the outset, I stressed the usefulness of one of the first steps taken by your Government: the deployment of the military on the street. A second measure has shown its total usefulness since, as you know, a search took place at 4:30 a.m. It could not have taken place if this government, with the support of the parliament, had not been able to present, among the thirty measures, a 24 hour extension of searches, which can now take place at night. Further searches took place during the day. But I sincerely hope that those who have failed to extend the period of police custody from 24 hours to 72 hours will not regret the wonderful progress made since the Attentats Committee and the efficiency of our services. I also hope that the blocking of this measure last week - many of us have a lot on our hearts in this regard - will not harm the investigation that has just begun.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u17	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. We must dare to name things. I think we are often too easy to talk about, saying that it is a lone wolf or that it is not a problem of Islam but a problem of Islam. To be honest, I think it is a problem of Islam. The citizens of our country are really not seeing blind, they can see that Islam is radicalising from within. In fact, up to five years ago there was no mention of such matters as burqas, burkinis, headscarfs and halal food. I read that Luckas Vander Taelen talks about self-egregation and I think that is a very beautiful and correct concept. Evenegregation does not mean that integration fails, that integration attempts from our society fail. Evenegregation means that those involved knowingly and willingly separate themselves and refuse to join our society. That is something completely different from failed integration. Are we supposed to be a police state? Of course not. Do we have to check everyone? Not evident. Should we remain within the limits of the rule of law? Of course we should. A resilient democracy is something completely different from a police state. In my opinion, a resilient democracy must really monitor, take action against and take action against the self-radicalisation that is taking place within Islam. We must therefore, above all, dare to name things.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u18	Minister, I very much appreciate the tone and the way in which you have responded. You also said that two days after the attack, you will not jump to conclusions, and that is a good thing. You warned us not to evolve into a police state. I think we all agree on that. Ladies and gentlemen, I am satisfied with the serenity of the debate. After all, I am not addressing you, Mr Minister, but to some members of the majority and members of your party, it is that some of the social media are trying rather hard to turn to left-wing parties, as if left-wing parties were not in favour of security measures. Now, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will not stand for that. I am therefore very pleased with the serene tone of today's debate and the way in which you have responded, Minister. After all, in the parliamentary committee of inquiry, we have been looking for a year by a majority and opposition. We have made severe observations, and we have tried to make very constructive proposals to improve the security situation. We have looked above all for what binds us and not for the differences. That is why we have come up with a strong report. Secondly, we face enormous challenges. It is now important that the government looks carefully at what the recommendations are, for which legislative work is needed, where cooperation with Parliament is needed, what measures the government can already take through ministerial decisions and so on, because there is something on the table. Look at the problems in military intelligence. That is not directly your competence, but it is a major problem for the government. After all, there are soldiers on the streets who report cases to the police and intelligence services, but nothing has happened to them. That must indeed be dealt with very strictly and very quickly. Finally, I fully support your call, Minister. We must guard the foundations of our rule of law. Protecting fundamental rights is not done by reducing other fundamental rights. That is the test for us in all the measures that we will be discussing in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u19	Thank you, Minister, for both the content and the tone of your reply. We may differ on a number of points, but on one point we are fundamentally different, namely the speed with which it has to move forward. Other people have already referred to it and so have you. Yesterday we heard from the P Committee a painful but clear analysis which has been going on for some time about the deficits at the federal level as regards the police. There are the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry. There are very interesting legislative proposals in the anti-terrorism committee, but they are put in the freezer for all kinds of reasons. Some measures do indeed require resources, Minister. Recruiting costs money. The Channel Plan I am joining is a blessing for my region, but, there too, if we want to achieve our ambitions, we need to invest. There is investment, but if we want to achieve our objectives, we will need additional money. I'm finishing up, Minister. I would like to draw particular attention to those things that do not cost money. You referred to the particularly interesting experiment at the airport in connection with observation techniques taught to police forces. To perceive someone, one must of course be able to see him. It is therefore absurd that a law that was passed years ago by a very large majority still awaits an RB. According to this law, police services can access the camera networks of the metro and train stations online whether they are in Brussels, Antwerp or Vilvoorde.Technically everything is fine. Technically, everything can be done, only one is waiting for a royal decision. A royal decree doesn't cost money. I would therefore urge you to implement the measures that cost nothing immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u20	Mr President, Minister, I would like to thank you for the quality of the answer, both in substance and in form. You are calling for the solidarity of the whole Parliament. On behalf of my group, I can commit myself to it. Our common objective is to combat terrorism on a daily basis. It's been repeated many times. In response to the specific question on means, you said that you had hired 1,000 people and that there were still 1,400 who were going to arrive. We both know that to overcome so much a form of burn-out absenteeism in services as natural departures and retirements, 2,400 commitments will not suffice. From now on, know that you will have the support of my group to fill these difficulties tomorrow and to be able to complete the commitments in the services.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u21	Excuse me, Mr. Frédéric. The minister is asking for the floor. Except for the Rules of Procedure. For a factual correction, it seems to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u22	Mr. Frédéric, you say we hired 1,000 people last year. That's not true. We hired 1,600. This year and subsequent years, 1,400 are committed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u23	Thank you for that clarification. It is possible that given my age, I have a hearing problem! In any case, the time is not over-accounting, but telling you that we want to be with the government to ensure that our police and intelligence services have sufficient resources. There has also been a complicated issue – colleagues in the committee of inquiry will not contradict me: the phenomenon of radicalisation of these people who manage to take extreme and barbaric acts by exposing themselves and making as many victims as possible. The role played by the Internet and social networks is believed to be well known, but it is certainly necessary to invest heavily. Here too we are at the service of Parliament and the government, as we have done in the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry for the past year and a half. In this regard, Mr Minister, I would point out, if you do not know, that we are in favour of a monitoring committee in which we are ready to invest. This seems essential to us if we are to be able to implement the recommendations approved by the parties of the majority and the opposition. We wish, unreservedly, beyond the divides – the debates of a few moments ago seem to me inappropriate – to fight terrorism together to ensure the security of our fellow citizens in our rule of law.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u24	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your reply. Colleagues, in two years' time there were dozens of laws and even more royal decisions, hundreds of pages of report from a committee of inquiry, justified budget increases and recruitments, but they will never prevent any attack on the left or right. We can't let that scare us. Fear is a bad counselor. All Belgians will have to continue to football, concerts, work stations and crowded terraces in the near future. We don't adapt our behavior. Mr Deputy Prime Minister, may I just say a few specific words about some of the measures you are suggesting? You have done a lot of recruitment, partly thanks to the extra budgets you have received in Parliament. However, in the coming years, the police will be faced with an enormous drain due to retirement. You said here that the bottleneck are the police schools that are full. Can I make you a suggestion? Come here with measures to expand those schools, to put more police teachers to work, so that we solve the problem of that bottleneck and the balance of outflow and influx leads to more police officers to fill the necessary frameworks. I fully agree with you to extend more quickly behavioral detection to the stations. This seems to me to be primarily a task for the railway police. After all, there's a lot of railroad police. You took a lot of measures and suggested a lot of others. You mentioned a number of them today, which I fully endorse. In addition, it is appropriate to place an emphasis on prevention. You are only partially competent, in the sense that police work is also preventive work. Let us not only focus on ways of managing the crisis, but also on preventing incidents. Let us use this coherent global approach across all policy levels.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u25	Minister, you spoke, first of all, to our hearts when you called for the agenda not to be determined by terrorists and to remain attached to our fundamental rights and freedoms. We fully support you in this, but that message must be borne in broad terms. I continue to see that every time something like this happens, there is a need for a certain kind of flame-flammation policy, some of which continue to explore how to move certain boundaries. They will always find us on their way. Secondly, as far as the method of implementing the recommendations of the parliamentary committee of inquiry is concerned, it is very good that the government should quickly decide what it is doing and what it is doing and that, Mr President, Parliament should do the same for all legislative work. Thirdly, when it comes to using more resources, I ask you not to do so linearly, but to the benefit of all the police and security services, given that terrorism is important, but not the only thing your services have to deal with. Finally, as Mr Frédéric said, the Committee of Inquiry will now address the last and perhaps most difficult chapter, namely radicalisation. What's going on in some people's minds? The perpetrator of the previous attack was not known on the lists of terrorism, at least, according to the investigation so far. If he is not known, how come someone can often radicalize in no time, become a monster and be able to do what he has done? That's the hardest thing the committee has to investigate. It is a complex interplay, in which the Internet plays an important role. However, there are several factors. Know that the parliamentary committee of inquiry will address this problem in the coming weeks and months. This is perhaps the most important thing: how can we prevent people from developing into such monsters and being able to do such actions? That is the question to which there is a complex answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u26	Mr President, Minister, today, L'Echo revealed that a criminal transaction had been concluded between the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office and the French billionaire Bernard Arnault concerning his false domicile in the commune of Uccle. The context is heavy since the criminal transaction is not only an instrument of class justice but also a matter of state currently dealt with in a committee of inquiry in this Parliament. It is known that the Constitutional Court, in its decision of 2 June, considers this law to be a violation of the Constitution. While the above-mentioned commission of inquiry and the Panama special commission have not yet completed their work, you decide to draft a new law while the prosecution decides to authorize the transactions! Minister, in plenary three weeks ago, you said that the prosecution would authorize transactions, but I quote you: "Sensitive political issues will not be dealt with." What are we discovering? That the first case is related to Bernard Arnault! Do you know who Bernard Arnault is? This is France's first or second fortune. It was he who had already made a scandal in our home during the naturalization that he had requested or private foundations that he had created in Belgium with the aim of organising his succession, and other scandals of the same kind. As in the case of Mr Chodiev, we are on the axis "Sarkozy - Reynders - De Decker", three close relatives of Bernard Arnault. In addition, one may wonder what is the interest of the Belgian State. The classic argument for the application of criminal transactions is to avoid the trial but also to at least recover the money. But in this case, there is no money at stake because it is a false domicile. The state has nothing to gain but Bernard Arnault has everything to gain! Minister, do you confirm this transaction? Who concluded it and for what amount? If the state has nothing to gain, why this transaction? Why, and to use your words, if politically sensitive, have we concluded this transaction? When you said, three weeks ago, that the ground was eager to enforce this criminal transaction law, who were you talking about when you were talking about the ground? Is that Bernard Arnault you were talking about? Why don't you stop the prosecution from entering into criminal transactions?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u27	Mr President, Minister, I wonder if you were as surprised as I was when you heard the news of Bernard Arnault's friendly settlement. I was really surprised and this for two reasons. Firstly, a few weeks ago, in this Chamber, following the repair of the law on the friendly settlement, you said that the court had confirmed to you that no friendly settlements would be made in difficult political cases pending. However, two or three weeks later, it seems, behind your back, that they are doing what they want. Secondly, there is a parallel with what happened in 2011. In 2011, the law on the extended friendly settlement had to be repaired. The then Minister of Justice called on the prosecutors to refrain from amicable settlements pending this. At that time there were two exceptions, namely Chodiev and Société Générale, just the dossiers that give rise to a committee of inquiry in this House today. And a committee of inquiry isn't the least of it. The same thing is happening today. The law needs to be repaired. You announce, thankfully, that you are going to fix them and that you will present a proposal by the beginning of the new parliamentary year, but in the meantime, we are moving on quietly. Do you not think, Minister, that you will also have to call on the public prosecutors to refrain from amicable settlement pending the repair, that this could be a policy that you are putting forward? In your view, is the Arnault dossier a difficult political dossier, in which we should not have resorted to an amicable settlement, as you were promised and as you have said here?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u28	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we all remember, for those who were present, that in 2013, Mr Bernard Arnault tried to become Belgian, not out of love for Belgium, but simply to escape the French tax. Together with other colleagues in the committee, we have unanimously refused this naturalization. With a fortune of 35 billion euros, Mr. Arnault estimates that he cannot afford to participate in the community, to pay tax in France. He tries to be Belgian, to escape the French state and French taxes. But, in addition, he does not respect Belgian laws since he realizes a false domicile. Now we learn that after Chodiev and his associates, large banks and corporations, he also benefits from a criminal transaction. As we have said, the work of the Kazakhgate Committee of Inquiry is under way. A ruling of the Constitutional Court has not yet been translated into law. We note that criminal transactions are always carried out for wealthy fraudsters. The minimum, as Minister of Justice, is to deliver justice, true justice, equality. Whether we are rich or poor, justice is equal and applies equally to everyone. Minister, I would like to ask you a few questions about this criminal transaction. Has an investigating judge been brought before him? Or was there only one stage: that of information? For what type of offence did Bernard Arnault benefit from this criminal transaction? What was the amount of it? Is this transaction in line with the 2016 ruling of the Constitutional Court, which is known to all and to all judges? Has the College of Attorneys General issued a circular on how to implement this criminal transaction since the Constitutional Court's decision? We are hearing from all the prosecutors general, and I can assure you that their answers are somewhat chaotic.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me first of all a comparison, perhaps a little pedagogic explanation, but Mrs Lalieux called it in her question. There are three times when a transaction can take place: before the opening of the criminal investigation and the commencement of the public action; in the second phase, between the application or the commencement of the public action and the judgment in first instance; in the third phase, after the judgment in first instance. It is true that in the potpourri II Act, which the government has submitted to your Parliament and which has already been approved, we have abolished the third stage. It is no longer possible, under the current provision of Article 216a, to conclude an extended friendly settlement after a judgment at first instance. That is a good thing. Secondly, Article 216a has been reinterpreted by the Constitutional Court only on the question referred for a preliminary ruling. Therefore, the prosecutors have allowed themselves to distribute a circular on this subject pending a new legal provision ensuring that there is a judicial review after the extended friendly settlement has been concluded. As Mrs Lalieux rightly suggested, the extended transaction concerns phase 2, after the public action has been initiated. This is Article 216a. In this case, the competent Brussels prosecutor assures me that we were in phase 1 where Article 216a does not apply. This is not an expanded criminal transaction. It is a simple criminal transaction that, like all other transactions, is beyond the control of the Minister of Justice. So the only thing I want to tell you about the transaction that was concluded with Mr. Arnault is that in this case it is a simple criminal transaction, contrary to what one might read in a certain press, namely that the public action would not have been initiated. I repeat that this is a simple criminal transaction that has nothing to do with the circular I told you about in this Parliament three weeks ago. So I would like to point out that the friendly settlement that was concluded here was a friendly settlement that was put in place before the criminal proceedings were brought. That means the investigating judge wasn't caught. In this way it escapes the rules of the extended friendly settlement. It is an ordinary friendly settlement on which the Constitutional Court did not mention the proportionality review in its judgment of 2 June 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u30	Minister, ordinary or expanded, this remains a criminal transaction. That is the problem. The problem is that we have someone who is the first or second fortune of France that is lacking and who escapes any prosecution. How does he escape prosecution? That's the question we can ask ourselves. The State had no interest in concluding this transaction. I asked you the question. What was the State's interest in concluding this transaction? You didn't get an answer. I asked you who concluded it and for how much. You didn't answer either. This lack of transparency is quite worrying. In the end, we always find ourselves in the same scenario of class justice in which the richest can escape the rules while the apple thief, he, is condemned to all blows. So we have a serious problem. The question we cannot fail to ask ourselves is what political influences have been able to play so that Bernard Arnault can benefit from this transaction.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u31	Minister, I have listened to your explanation that this friendly settlement has nothing to do with the repair of the law that you must implement. Questions still arise when a first-stage solution is reached in such a case. This is a public figure and, in addition, a person who was not prosecuted for two fraud cases in which a criminal investigation took place. One case was about a highly suspicious sample transaction and the other was about residential fraud. Both cases became suitable in the first phase. At least we can expect transparency on this and we know why a settlement was reached in these cases. This feels very unpleasant. The richer one is, the easier one apparently gets a settlement. We also want to know what that settlement means. I believe, Minister, that when your repair law is discussed, the first stage should be thoroughly examined and discussed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u32	Minister, thank you for your answers. Again, what control can be exercised over this justice, this transaction? None. What is the interest of the State - you have not answered? None. Of course, we will analyse the conclusions of the Kazakhgate Committee. But the only impression today is that of rich justice, class justice. When you have a name, a fortune, you escape justice while others find themselves in court. It is time to reform the criminal transaction and the expanded criminal transaction, Minister, because we no longer have the impression of equal justice for every citizen.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u33	Mr President, Minister, the Monitoring Committee has readjusted the famous 9 billion to be found, mostly for the federal state, in order to respect the fiscal trajectory by 2019. In this context, you announced a few days ago your willingness to reduce excise duties on tobacco and thus the price of tobacco, to boost sales and bring more money into the state's coffers. This means a major decline in tobacco control. I almost want to tell you, what cynicism! Because it's forgetting that tobacco kills half of its consumers. It is to be forgotten that, every year, 15,000 people die prematurely because of tobacco. It is to be forgotten that every year, 300,000 people suffer from cancer, cardiovascular diseases, tobacco-related broncho-pulmonary diseases. It's huge! Is tobacco tax revenues declining? That's so good! This means that we are a little more effective in tobacco control. And so much better because it's beneficial in terms of health. Is price increases the most effective lever in the fight against tobacco? Mr Minister, should we recall that, if we fight tobacco more effectively tomorrow, in the medium and long term, we will also have an advantage in terms of the state budget, given the enormous costs of health and disability? You're a repeat offender. This is the second time in six months that you have voted in the press for a reduction in tobacco excise duties. It must be a terrible pleasure for cigar makers. My question is very simple. In this case, will you, at the government level, promote small budget meters and small tax revenues? Or are you going to choose a much more effective health policy?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u34	Mr President, Mrs Fonck, let me begin with a fundamental element in order to avoid any misunderstanding: I have never argued for a reduction in tobacco excise duties. I know that some people like to put these words in my mouth but I never said anything in that sense. I think I've always been clear about excise duties. Clearly, health goals are paramount. To achieve these goals, sales and consumption must decline, on the understanding that there is a difference between sales and consumption. In reality, we find that consumers are increasingly turning to abroad to make their purchases or to illegal alternatives such as cheap white. The consumer therefore adapts his behaviour, but not necessarily how you and I would like it in the context of public health. Let me also remind you that last month customs seized 90 million illegal cigarettes in the port of Antwerp. This is a record catch that illustrates that this circuit, unfortunately, is growing. For all these reasons - foreign purchases, illegal cigarettes - it is quite true that I have repeatedly stated that we have to make a critical assessment of the effects of the measures taken on revenues and also of the consumer's behaviour. As Minister of Finance, it is my duty to monitor this situation very closely and to communicate the results to the government. So that's what I do systematically. At present, Mr. President, the amendment of excise duties is not on the agenda. If changes were to be made, they would be made as a result of a discussion and, of course, a decision taken within the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u35	Minister, thank you. You say you didn't say. I note, however, that you have made the headlines of the newspaper Le Soir and that the journalists have persisted in their statements. Obviously, they contacted your firm, which confirmed your comments. I sometimes feel, by hearing you, that you are talking about consumers who change their habits. But illegal cigarettes are not new. The government's responsibility is to combat these illegal traffics and circuits. It's your job, too. You say consumers are going to buy their cigarettes abroad. Is it worth recalling that in France the price of tobacco is higher than in Belgium? You could take initiatives at European level, not to try to pull the other down, but instead to pull a single price upwards. This would be effective and effective for health and to address this cross-border sales problem. Minister, if you really choose the camp and the health strategy, you should both increase the excise duty, put in place the neutral package, protect minors exposed to smoke and completely ban tobacco advertising. I suggest that we put the priority not on the tax side, but on the health side. Some may find me too energetic about this fight. Minister, if you were to visit patients in the hospital for a week, you could actually understand my fight.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u36	Mr President, Minister, the European Commission is continuing its fight against tax fraud. It has put forward an interesting proposal this week to work on a directive so that the European Member States can transpose it into their own legislation. Last week, the European Commission presented a proposal to introduce a reporting obligation for professional intermediaries involved in advising or cooperating in setting up foreign tax structures, or rather, foreign structures to avoid tax. Those intermediaries may be bankers, lawyers, consultants or people who are professionally involved in advising or setting up those structures. In Parliament, too, we have been active in the special committee on Panama in recent months. A number of hearings also showed that measures to introduce more transparency could be interesting in order to better tackle the fight against tax fraud and avoidance behaviour. I also understand that this is one of the recommendations contained in the OECD package of measures to combat tax fraud. It seems to me to be an interesting proposal to make in Belgium too. Minister, you yourself announced in your 2015 Fraud Plan that you would like to use much more transparency measures to increase transparency and thus to gain more control and information on financial flows. This will also allow timely response to possible tax fraud. I come to my questions, Minister. What do you think of this proposal for a directive from the European Commission? What position will you take on behalf of Belgium in that consultation of European ministers on the proposal for a directive to introduce the reporting obligation for financial intermediaries? I hope for a positive position.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u37	Mr President, Mrs Smaers, you have referred several times to transparency. I think that is quite right. From the discussions we have had in the Finance Committee, among other things, you know that I think that fiscal transparency is very important. However, this is quite different from total tax harmonisation. I am much less in favour of the latter because I believe that small, open economies such as ours should have a certain amount of fiscal instruments at their disposal. As far as transparency is concerned, I believe that we have taken the lead in a number of areas over the last period, including the spontaneous and first exchange of rulings. We all have an interest in increasing the exchange of information, ensuring that there are clear rules and, above all, that there are fewer loopholes. We and I fully support the initiatives taken in this area within Europe and within the OECD. Moreover, a lot of legislation has already emerged from these initiatives which have led to more transparency and less loopholes, which we should certainly be able to achieve with the reform of corporate taxation. Although I remain prepared to look at all possible proposals and initiatives in this area, the approach described just now seems to me to be more effective and more efficient than the targeting of intermediaries, particularly the resulting increased complexity of the administration. What we need is not even more complexity but simplification. We should not fight against symptoms, but address the causes and thus make our taxation fairer, simpler and more transparent.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u38	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. Of course, we can agree with a policy that focuses on much more simplification of taxation and on much more transparency and data exchange. Everyone in this House is following you and can certainly agree to such a policy. However, in addition to internal recommendations from our own work, as well as foreign recommendations from the OECD and now from the European Commission,..................................................................................................................................................... It seems that certain checks should also be introduced. That is why I would like to go into more detail on the European Commission's proposal. I did not hear you reply to my question about the Belgian Government's position on the proposal for a directive which will be submitted, in particular on the reporting of intermediaries. I did not hear a specific point of view on that question. I would like the government to take its position on this matter and join it in the European Commission. I repeat that I hope that this is a positive position.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u39	Mr President, Minister, as you know, the explosion in the number of young people benefiting from CPAS is not a new phenomenon, but it is growing dangerously. I am pleased to have read in the press that this concerns you, both for the students who need to finance their studies and for the young people who benefit from social integration income. You would have asked your services to investigate the causes in order to take appropriate action. I hope, however, that your reflection will not only lead to the establishment of an individualised project of social integration specific to students, since you have already mentioned this. I think the problem is much broader, minister, and it is not enough to give some more instructions to CPAS. In particular, I invite you to read the last annual report of the ONEM on the exclusion of insertion allowances and the tightening of the rules decided by your Government. I am not going to align the figures in this report here, but it is clearly demonstrated that these young people are being hit hard by these measures, in addition to the fact that a large part of those who are no longer entitled to unemployment will knock on the door of CPAS. Minister, will you do a real audit of the explosion in the number of young people reaching out to CPAS in order to identify all the causes? If so, would you be willing to challenge federal policies that generate poverty among youth and those who need to apply to CPAS?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u40	Mr Minister, today you have indeed published figures on the increasing number of students on a living wage. You said it would be 5 400 students in Flanders in 2016, more than 8 200 in Brussels and 13 500 in Wallonia. The first question is whether you are really sure of these figures. After all, you recently gave me figures until mid-2016 and there turned out to be about 6,000 students less with a living wage. Maybe you have a new monitoring system, or I find this strange. In any case, as in all living wage figures, and despite the lower population, Brussels and Wallonia are making the crown again in total figures. I believe that this calls for permanent attention, but it should also not blind us to the fact that there is an overall problem which must also be addressed in Flanders. First of all, I would like to warn against too negative a picture every time these figures reach the newspaper. I also see a lot of students in the OCMW I chair, and each time I see that the broad support they receive from our social assistants in their project often leads them to write a success story at the end of the journey. They're getting out of that carousel, too. We need to get rid of the negative image that comes from the OMCW. In itself, that is not necessarily a negative issue. There was a research by the POD MI in 2015 which showed that no less than 80% of these students actually graduate or study further. That is where there are absolutely good things to tell. With the support of social assistants, stakeholders can ensure that they never have to use the OMCW at a later age. We must therefore pay attention to an overly negative reading of some of the figures in this respect, although this matter remains an issue of concern. You promised to investigate exactly what caused the increase in the number. That must, of course, be looked at. One of the elements for which I think you should certainly pay attention is the autonomy of the OMCWFs.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u41	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u42	Sorry, Mr. Chairman, I know it's hot, but I'm gonna make this point anyway. The research into the maintenance obligation of the parents and the research of whether such a student is really needy is not done in the same way in all OCMW's. It is common knowledge, for example, that this is hardly happening in Ghent. The figures show that the number of students with a living wage in Ghent is twice as high as in Antwerp. And then I'm not talking about the Walloon cities. We must not be blind to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u43	Now please ask your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u44	I've known young people whose parents wouldn't support them anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u45	Mrs Van Peel, you must now ask your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u46	Mr President, admit that this is an interesting subject. Minister, will you include this element in your investigation into the reason for the increase?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u47	Mr President, Minister, the number of students who benefit from the CPAS in order to continue their studies has indeed been multiplied by seven: they are twenty-seven thousand, an impressive figure. I quote the reaction attributed to you: "It is challenging. I am going to put in place a new PIIS contract that will be really job-oriented." Minister, I am stunned and shocked! Isn't a student's first job studying? In any case, it does not consist of working, but of conducting studies with the aim of acquiring qualifications for work. Clearly, the mission of the CPAS employees is to accompany him in the course of his studies. I would like to mention a few figures. First, 70% of these students are co-residents. Three-quarters of them come from families living in poverty – and their numbers continue to increase. If one of them has to come and ask the CPAS for help, it's because his family is poor. My interpretation is that it is austerity measures, including the exclusion of any right to unemployment, that plunge them into increasing insecurity. Subsequently, 39 per cent of these young people attend secondary education. Are you also going to impose an individual contract for "job-oriented" social integration? They must complete their basic training. We have already had the opportunity to discuss in committee the discrimination against this section of the population. These young people who have the courage to undertake studies, who come from difficult backgrounds, who have to apply for assistance from the CPAS and get a scholarship, who have to work in addition to their studies, get a share of their income from integration if they have additional income. In addition, they are not left with the choice of studies, unlike other students. Minister, we must put an end to this discrimination. I hope I misunderstood you. Therefore, I would sincerely like you to reply that I was wrong in the interpretation of your answer that I read this morning in the press.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u48	Minister, I have just heard a very negative interpretation of the figures. Minister, you have said that the number of students who call on a living wage, on the OCMW, has risen dramatically. By 2002, this number is 7 times higher. There are two ways we can look at that. Like colleague Van Peel, I see an increase in the number of students in our OCMW. Of course, when services are better known, and when the threshold for social services is low, it is easier to help the people in difficulty. This is reflected in the figures. Then the number of people arriving there to make use of a living wage increases. In itself, therefore, this increase does not have to be a negative matter. It is something else when it starts to get out of hand and we start to spend our resources improperly on certain groups when perhaps we should give them to others. Then I start to worry a little about the evolution of those figures. I see in our own OCMW that this increase continues. Very often people rely on a broken bond between the parents and the student. Most OCMWFs, the OCMWFs that handle this properly, have a maintenance obligation and consider how to recover parents' money. But if that bond is broken, if the relationship is bad, there are fair reasons not to recover it. I wonder if the OCMWFs have enough tools to check this out properly. I think those tools are missing today. If we ask the parents themselves, they will gain financially if they say that the bond is broken. In that case, the maintenance obligation will not be applied. I believe that we should be attentive to this and I am pleased that you have included this issue. My specific question is: how do you interpret these figures? They do not have to be seen as negative in themselves, but they are rising exponentially. And which tools do you want to make available to the OCMWFs to better follow up?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u49	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that the number of students receiving a GPMI has been increasing steadily for a number of years. The figures are now available. In 2002, the following numbers of students with a living wage were recorded. For Brussels, 615 beneficiaries; for Flanders, 847; for Wallonia, 2 192. In 2002, we therefore have a total of 3,654 beneficiaries of a student ISP. In 2016, Mrs Van Peel had a total of 27,133 beneficiaries, i.e. 8,263 for Brussels, 5,400 for Flanders and 13,470 for Wallonia. I will bring a nuance because 2002 is the year of the implementation of the scheme. It was only partially developed in 2002. The full year is the year of 2003. It was also observed that between 2002 and 2003, the number of beneficiaries concerned had doubled. For a more detailed analysis of the extent and causes of the phenomenon, please refer to the study "Focus note No. 16 Students and the living wage" from September 2016 of the Social Integration PPS. That document is available on the website of the POD. This finding is very worrying, both because of the scale of the phenomenon and because of the differences between the regions of our country. For a large part, these differences are, of course, the result of the different socio-economic situations of the three regions. I do not wish to confine myself to that observation. I'm opting in the file for a more voluntaristic approach. I really want to help young people, beneficiaries and students more effectively. At first glance, one can say: "As the tool is better used and more young people are studying." This will give them more chances for their future. I have another number to share with you. In the area of vocational integration, after one year, only 30.2% of people who have benefited from a student SIIP are actually at work. If I compare with young people with minimalx, I find that 23.7% of them are at work after a year. The difference is finally very small. I see this figure of 30.2 per cent as a failure. This is insufficient, especially in a situation where, as we know, jobs are created and developed, and jobs are vacant. I therefore set myself the target of 50% of beneficiaries who, after a year, after leaving their student ISP, will actually be at work. In this context, I would like to introduce a GPMI that is actually aimed at employment. I will be giving guidelines to the OCMWFs in this sense this summer. More specifically, I wish to develop a professional balance, a state of affairs for the beneficiary. Secondly, I wish to develop better guidance at the end of and after the studies. Thirdly, I wish to ensure that the OCMW's focus is on initiatives for job coaching or guidance. Fourthly, I wish to make the link with regional services and so on. As far as the duty of food is concerned, my aim is to improve the procedure. More effective tools should be made available to CPAS to ensure that maintenance debtors are solicited before the company is solicited. A word of conclusion: my approach is directed towards young people, towards students, and is deeply respectful. I cannot be satisfied with the fact that one year after their education, only three out of ten young people are at work. We need to make progress. I do it by listening to you, believe it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u50	Minister, thank you. I understand that you are fully aware of the shortcomings of this system and that you want to reach a rate of 50%. But I am not satisfied with the answer. I don't see how you're gonna do it. That's what I wanted to hear. I will come back to committee with new questions, because this deserves to be questioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u51	Minister, you say that only a little less than 30% flows into a post office. I think that's a little difficult the first few years after college anyway. It's still the best thing for a young man to get such a diploma. I say it again, I see a lot of success stories in my OCMW in that respect. But it is also important, of course, and on this point, for example, we would like to point out that a social assistant with someone who already had a very difficult start, who is not surrounded, who can fall back on nothing, will also look at the choice of study. Mrs Gerkens, you want to make freedom happy again, but we will not accept every study. After all, one must consider whether one chooses a study which can lead to immediate flow. And that is social, because then one will investigate how one can influence things for someone who does not have another care network. Finally, Minister, I would like to return to what Mr Lachaert said. You should also check whether the OCMWFs are indeed checking whether the relationships between parents and children have actually been disturbed. We are looking very hard at that and I have already been stunned by things that turned out to be not so kosher afterwards. Undoubtedly, not every OCMW is equally strict.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u52	Minister, like you, of course, I find it positive that more and more young people living in difficult financial situations, in poor families, are pursuing studies. It is also positive that the CPAS can help them. But I would have liked to hear you say, in a very clear way, that the aim of accompanying these young people during their learning period is to help them carry out studies that correspond to what they know and what they plan to do. Thanks to this type of support, they will be able to have facilities to develop their skills, and their chances of finding a job will increase. Secondly, it will be a question of accompanying them in the search for a job. But setting an employment objective and setting constraints, as you do, on social workers and not on the quality of education, has perverse and negative effects. Moreover, I really can't accept that, because a person is poor and comes from a poor family, they can't have the same choices as other young people. We need to be able to choose our studies for them to suit us. If we want to orient young people, then we have to orient them all. But it is not because a person is poor and needs solidarity, that he or she cannot choose his or her education and training path like other students.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u53	Mr President, I think there are two elements. Firstly, as regards the maintenance obligation, it is concluded that the local OCMWs have to deal with this pragmatically, but correctly. The OCMWFs that do not do that are likely to increase that kind of figure. It is therefore appropriate to examine cases on a case-by-case basis. Perhaps, together with the OCMWFs, we need to look at which tools are still in place to be able to monitor these matters properly. Secondly, what I have just heard shows that one does not understand what a GPMI is and what the purpose of every OCMW is. It doesn't matter who conducts the policy in an OCMW, the OCMW presidents in this country, in the south and in the north, have the task of helping everyone individually, integrating society as best as possible and helping to guide studies. It's not always about people who were originally in poverty. For example, it is also about family relationships that have been broken, which require an individual approach, but the GPMI has just been provided for this. There is no problem with the framework. You have to give us all the tools and make good appointments. The figures need to be carefully checked, but I would also be interested to see how the maintenance obligation has evolved over time and what is the burden that can effectively reach and be recovered from society. Maybe that feed is for a later debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u54	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Secretary of State, the press said this morning that the government was going to propose measures on administrative simplification. All these measures are probably intended to simplify the lives of businesses. The measures referred to concerned data to be transmitted to administrations by self-employed persons and enterprises, exemptions from social security contributions, rules inherent in public procurement or accounting rules. It is indeed important that the administrative burden on businesses be reduced. Minister Borsus, whom I welcome here, had already, in his SME Plan, created an "administrative simplification" axis, already concretizing various measures. I am thinking in particular of the one allowing companies interested in public procurement to register in an electronic box from which they could receive calls which might concern them. Minister Borsus mentioned some of these measures in the press this morning, such as the simplification of procedures relating to AFSCA for exporting companies, the creation of a single electronic file for INASTI and, finally, the shortening of the procedure for claiming exemption from social contributions from six to two months. Mr Secretary of State, could you tell us more about all these measures? Which are the main concerns of entrepreneurs and self-employed people?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u55	Mr President, Mr Friart, as you say so well, administrative simplification for SMEs and self-employed people is an important challenge for the government. This is a permanent and never-ending task, but we have already taken great steps forward and are considering additional measures in the years to come. Let me first explain the main axes of the administrative simplification plan for SMEs. The aim of this plan is to reduce the administrative burden on SMEs and the self-employed, in accordance with the government agreement. Within the government, there is work at the "macro" level to improve the business environment; think about measures taken under the tax shift, for example. The administrative simplification plan for SMEs complements this "macro" policy by improving the business environment at micro level, with concrete measures that will facilitate their business. In short, the aim is to cancel formalities that are not necessary for the State and, at the same time, to simplify as much as possible the formalities still necessary to make them more effective. The basis of this plan is an opinion issued by the Conseil Supérieur des Indépendants et des SMEs, in April 2016, at the request of Minister Borsus, with proposals for simplification. The Council had proposed seventeen and one action to be taken, to which the Government has added another fifty-four additional measures. The SME Plan therefore concerns one hundred and twenty-five concrete projects, spread over the portfolios of thirteen ministers and secretaries of state. Seventy-four of these projects have already been completed, while fifty-one are under preparation. It is clear that it is not useful to list these fifty-one drafts at this plenary session. I will therefore limit myself to five very important projects: simplification of applications for permits to the Federal Nuclear Safety Agency; harmonisation of the use of electronic signatures; autonomous management by companies of a Banque-Carrefour des Entreprises; bringing VAT forms into line with the "only once" principle by electronic means; innovation and simplification of companies' access to public procurement (a project already mentioned in your question). In conclusion, I reiterate that the government as a whole has the objective of freeing entrepreneurs from administrative tasks as much as possible so that they can invest as much of their time in their business. They generate the wealth of our country and therefore deserve our full support.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u56	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for that clarification. We can be confident that all these measures will save governments and businesses time, efficiency and productivity. This will simplify the lives of entrepreneurs allowing them to devote themselves to their core business, i.e. finding new markets and developing new products. This will make our country much more attractive to foreign investors and thus create jobs. All of this seems to be part of the government's effort to give businesses more opportunities to create jobs. A report from the Planning Office was released this Tuesday, reporting a volume of jobs of 262,000 new jobs by 2022. Mr. Secretary of State, the MR will continue to support your work and that of the government in favour of business and job creation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u57	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u58	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 21 June 2017, I propose to postpone the discussion of the draft law amending the law of 22 March 2001 establishing a guarantee of income for the elderly, Nos 2493/1 to 3. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 21 June 2017, I propose to defer the discussion of the bill amending the Act of 22 March 2001 providing for the guarantee of income for the elderly, Nos. 2493/1 to 3. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u59	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Laaouej and Mr Van de Velde, rapporteurs, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u60	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we shall abstain on this draft, not so much because of its content, but rather because of what is not in it. This is a project entitled "Measures to combat tax fraud" and, when we look at what is in this text, we see virtually nothing. A few holes are closed, some gaps are filled, while the challenges in the fight against tax fraud are enormous. On topical issues, a colleague asked the Minister of Finance about a breach that he opened in the fight against multinational tax fraud, and the minister did not really answer. On the one hand, we see a government and a finance minister opening the door to fraud, abuse, tax avoidance, the fact that the richest and multinationals will pay less and less taxes. And, on the other hand, when it comes to taking concrete measures against tax fraud, there is nothing, a virtually empty text, which fills some of the shortcomings found here, but which does not tackle tax fraud. We are still waiting for the measures that were in the plan that the minister tabled when he succeeded Secretary of State Elke Sleurs: the granting of the status of judicial police officer to ISI officers, the Antigone decision. A series of measures which, obviously, do not go into the majority. This is a truly indigent project in the fight against tax fraud, which justifies abstention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u61	Mr President, I believe that everyone agrees that the fight against tax fraud is an important issue. In the fight against tax fraud, I clearly mean the fight against the great tax fraud. It is not the intention to sanction people who have made an administrative mistake somewhere. As regards the fight against major tax fraud, the Minister of Finance made several announcements in press releases in 2015, and his party also tweeted that the BBI would be expanded by 100 staff. That didn't happen. Afterwards, it became apparent that this was actually a publicity campaign, but that the number of employees of the BBI was actually reduced. My group therefore wants to table an amendment to remind the Minister of his statements of 2015 and to ask for these 100 additional staff to be recruited effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u62	Mr Vuye, your amendment will be handed over to us?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u63	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u64	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u65	As far as the BBI is concerned, there are indeed 100 additional people involved. In the meantime, however, there is also a natural discharge, which means that the net effect is less than 100, but 100 new people have actually been added. As regards the remarks made by Mr. Van Hees, I think that finally I will have a different opinion than him about the measures taken, their effects and tax fraud in general. I think that's how it stays. This was already the case and it continues.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u66	Minister, I regret to remind you that what you are saying is not in line with your 2015 press releases in which you are indeed talking about additional staff and an extension of the framework. This means that natural redundancies will also be taken into account. What you are saying is really not in line with your 2015 press releases.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u67	The minister tells us that he does not have the same idea as I do of the fight against tax evasion. I fully agree with him on this. But he does not even have the same idea of tax evasion as himself. Indeed, many of the measures he announced in his plan are not reflected in this text, and do not seem to be on track. The minister does not agree with himself!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u68	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u69	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2400/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2400/4) The draft law contains 7 articles. The bill has 7 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u70	2 "Hendrik Vuye cs" (2400/5) ****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment that has been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the reserved amendment and on the package will take place at a later date. ******
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u71	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs, Mr Piedboeuf and Mr Deseyn, refer to the written report, for which I am grateful. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u72	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2454/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2454/3) The title was amended by the Committee in draft law amending Article 276 of the Income Tax Code 1992 on the settlement of the advance collection of the long-term savings tax. The title has been amended by the committee into a bill amending section 276 of the Income Tax Code 1992 with regard to the imputation of the advance collection of the long-term savings tax. The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u73	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u74	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Klaps, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u75	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2469/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2469/3) Het opschrift in het Frans werd door de commissie gewijzigd in The title in French has been amended by the commission in draft law amending article 134 of the Income Tax Code 1992 in the calculation of the tax credit for dependent children". The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u76	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u77	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The reporters, Mr Calomne and Mr Van de Velde, refer to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u78	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2473/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2473/3) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u79	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u80	The Conference of Presidents of 21 June 2017 shall postpone until 16 October 2017 the deadline for the submission of the report of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the circumstances which led to the terrorist attacks of 22 March 2016 at Brussels National Airport and at Maalbeek Metro Station in Brussels, including the evolution and approach of the fight against radicalism and the terrorist threat. The Conference of Presidents of 21 June 2017 proposes to the House of Representatives to postpone the final date for the tabling of the report of the parliamentary committee of inquiry to examine the circumstances that led to the terrorist attacks of 22 March 2016 at Brussels-National Airport and at the Maelbeek metro station in Brussels, including the evolution and management of the fight against radicalism and the terrorist threat, by 16 October 2017 at the latest. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u81	The Conference of Presidents of 21 June 2017 shall propose to the Chamber of Representatives the extension until the end of November 2017 of the mandate of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry "Friendly Settlement in Criminal Matters'. The Conference of Presidents on 21 June 2017 proposes to the House of Representatives to extend the mandate of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry "Criminal Transaction" until the end of November 2017. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u82	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 21 June 2017 and at the request of the proposers, I propose the legislative proposal (Mrs Muriel Gerkens and Mr Evita Willaert, Mr Georges Gilkinet, Mrs Anne Dedry, Mr Benoit Hellings, Mrs Meyrem Almaci and Mr Jean-Marc Nollet and Mr Gilles Vanden Burre) on voluntary termination of pregnancy, No. 2271/1, refer to the Committee on Justice, in order to add it to the legislative proposal (Mrs Karine Lalieux, Laurette Onkelinx, Fabienne Winkel and Özlem Özen, Mr Eric Massin and Ms Julie Fernandez Fernandez) in order to inform and include voluntary termination of pregnancy from the Criminal Code in the law of 22 August 2002 on patient rights, No. 1867/1. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 21 June 2017 and at the request of the authors, I propose that you refer to the Committee on Justice the bill (Ms. Muriel Gerkens and Evita Willaert, Georges Gilkinet, Anne Dedry, Benoit Hellings, Meyrem Almaci and MM. Jean-Marc Nollet and Gilles Vanden Burre) on voluntary termination of pregnancy, No. 2271/1, in order to attach it to the bill (Ms. Karine Lalieux, Laurette Onkelinx, Fabienne Winkel and Özlem Özen, Mr. Eric Massin and Ms. Julie Fernandez Fernandez) to remove the voluntary termination of pregnancy from the Penal Code and to introduce it into the Act of 22 August 2002 on the rights of the patient, No. 1867/1. This proposal was previously sent to the Committee on Health, the Environment and Social Renewal. This proposal had previously been referred to the Committee on Public Health, the Environment and the Renewal of the Society. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u83	The N-VA Group has given me the candidacy of Mr Brecht Vermeulen as an effective member and of Mr Christoph D'Haese as an alternate member of the Benelux Consultative Council. The N-VA Group has sent me the candidature of Mr Brecht Vermeulen as an effective member and Mr Christoph D'Haese as an alternate member of the Benelux Inter-Parliamentary Consultative Council. Since there are no other candidates, Rule 157 (6) of the Rules of Procedure requires no vote and I declare Mr Brecht Vermeulen to be an effective member and Mr Christoph D'Haese to be an alternate member of the Benelux Consultative Council. Since there are no other candidates, there is no vote, in accordance with Rule 157(6) of the Rules of Procedure, and I declare Mr Brecht Vermeulen elected as an effective member and Mr Christoph D'Haese elected as an alternate member of the Benelux Inter-Parliamentary Consultative Council.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u84	By e-mail of 10 April 2017, Mr Freddy Tomicki, former Director of the Informatics Service, submitted his resignation as an alternate member of the Permanent College of Experts in charge of the control of electronic voting systems. By e-mail dated April 10, 2017, Mr.Freddy Tomicki, former Director of Administration of the Computer Service, resigned as an alternate member of the Permanent College of Experts for the Control of Automated Voting Systems. Article 24 (2), first paragraph, of the Law of 7 February 2014 on the organisation of the electronic ballot with paper evidence provides that the Chamber should designate three effective and three alternate experts for a period of five years and that such designation should ensure the linguistic parity of the College. The first paragraph of Article 24, § 2, of the Law of 7 February 2014 organising electronic voting with paper proof stipulates that the Chamber must appoint three actual experts and three alternate experts, for a period of five years, and that linguistic parity must be respected when appointing them. Since Mr Freddy Tomicki was appointed as a French speaking expert, the Chamber should appoint a new French-speaking alternate member of the Permanent College. Given that Mr. Freddy Tomicki has been appointed as a Francophone expert, it is incumbent upon the House to designate a new Francophone alternate member for this Permanent College. In accordance with the decision of the Conference of Presidents of 3 May 2017, a call for candidates was sent by e-mail of 3 May 2017 to the staff of the Chamber and Senate and to the members of the non-permanent College of Experts for the mandate of French-speaking Deputy Member of the Permanent College of Experts responsible for the control of electronic voting systems. Pursuant to the decision of the Conference of Presidents of May 3, 2017, a call for candidates was sent by e-mail on May 3, 2017, to the members of the staff of the House and the Senate as well as to the members of the Collège d'experts non-permanent for a term of office as a Francophone alternate member of the Collège permanent d'experts in charge of monitoring automated voting systems. The applications were to be submitted by 25 May 2017. Applications were to be submitted no later than 25 May 2017. Mr Jérôme Dossogne, researcher at the Université Libre de Bruxelles and at the Ministry of Defence, member of the non-permanent College of Experts. The following candidacy was submitted within the prescribed time limit: Mr Jérôme Dossogne, researcher at the Université Libre de Bruxelles and at the Ministry of Defence, member of the College of Non-Permanent Experts. Since there is only one candidate and in accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 21 June 2017, I propose that Mr Jérôme Dossogne be appointed as a French-speaking alternate member of the Permanent College of Experts responsible for the control of electronic voting systems, pursuant to Article 157.6 of the Rules of Procedure. Since there is only one candidate and in accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 21 June 2017, I propose that you appoint Mr.Jérôme Dossogne as a French-speaking alternate member of the Permanent College of Experts responsible for monitoring automated voting systems, pursuant to rule 157.6 of the Rules of the House. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u85	As a result of the resignation of Ms Camille Dieu, the Chamber should provide for a replacement for the remainder of its term of office, in accordance with Article 10 of the Law of 6 January 2014 establishing a Federal Deontological Commission. Following the resignation of Ms. Camille Dieu, the Chamber must provide for her replacement for the remainder of her term of office, in accordance with section 10 of the Act of 6 January 2014 establishing a Federal Ethics Commission. Ms Marie José Laloy's candidacy was announced at the plenary session of 8 June 2017. Ms. Marie José Laloy's candidacy was announced during the plenary session on 8 June 2017. Since there is only one candidate and in accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 21 June 2017, I propose that Mrs Marie José Laloy - pursuant to Rule 157.6 of the Rules of Procedure - be appointed to the Federal Deontological Committee for the category "Former Members of the Chamber of Representatives and/or the Senate'. Given that there is only one candidate and in accordance with the advice of the Conference of Presidents of 21 June 2017, I propose that you appoint Ms.Marie José Laloy as a member of the Federal Ethics Commission for the category "Former Members of the House of Representatives and/or the Senate", pursuant to rule 157.6 of the Rules of the House. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u86	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u87	The Government requested urgent procedure under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when submitting the following draft laws: The government requested urgency pursuant to rule 51 of the Rules when introducing the following bills: 1. Draft law adapting various laws to Directive 2005/36/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 7 September 2005 on the recognition of professional qualifications, as amended by Directive 2013/55/EU, No. 2502/1. 1. Draft law adapting various legislation to Directive 2005/36/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 7 September 2005 on the recognition of professional qualifications, as amended by Directive 2013/55/EU, No 2502/1. Minister, you have the floor to explain the government's request.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u88	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the urgency was asked for this draft because infringement proceedings for failure to transpose the Directive 2013/55/EU were initiated by the European Commission. This bill is part of a complex Belgian legislative process involving all levels of authority, which makes it difficult to deal with this matter at an earlier stage. Thank you for your repeated attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u89	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u90	2. Draft Law ratifying two Royal Decrees applying Article 71 of the Civil Security Act of 15 May 2007, No. 2530/1. 2. Draft law, pursuant to article 71 of the Civil Security Act of 15 May 2007, confirming two royal decrees, No. 2530/1. I will pass the floor to the minister for the reasons for the request.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u91	Mr President, these are two royal decisions which govern the federal budgets of the assisted areas and which were amended by the government at the beginning of this year. This change was necessary because a number of municipalities had in the meantime switched to other zones. As a result, federal policy was no longer in line with reality, something that the government has now corrected.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u92	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u93	3. Draft law amending the Law of 15 May 1984 laying down measures for harmonization of pension schemes, No. 2543/1. 3. Draft law amending the Act of 15 May 1984 on harmonization measures in pension schemes, No. 2543/1. I will pass the floor to the minister for the reasons for the request.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u94	Mr President, the request for an emergency must be supported. It is motivated by the fact that the bill adapts minimum pensions to the standard of well-being. This adaptation reflects, as you know, the interprofessional agreement, in any case one of its parts, and must be effective on 1 September 2017, so that the administrative and technical logistics as a whole will be operational for the payment on 1 September 2017. In a very humble way, I have no choice, in this case, but to ask you for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u95	We appreciate your modesty, Minister. I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u96	This interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for Health, the Environment and the Social Renewal of 14 June 2017. This inquiry was developed in public meeting of the Commission on Public Health, the Environment and the Renewal of the Society of 14 June 2017. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 223/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Karin Jiroflée; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Kattrin Jadin. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 223/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Karin Jiroflée; - a simple motion was tabled by Ms. Kattrin Jadin. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u97	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister Borsus announced on 27 April that he would introduce a ban on the sale of herbicides, including satsumas, intended for private individuals. The latter is the important word here. Last week he confirmed that intention in committee. We are very pleased with that. What's the problem now? It is mainly used in agriculture. Our Belgian farmers spray around 150 tonnes of satsumas each year, and private individuals only 41 tonnes. So it doesn't help to ban it just for individuals. Now that there are so many uncertain studies on the effects of the use of arthropods on our health and the health of our children, we should be a little more careful, hence this motion for a ban on the use of arthropods for individuals and professionals.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u98	Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u99	Yes [[74]] Yes No. 57 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 132 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. Reason for abstention? Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u100	Mr President, I abstained because I have a pairing with Mrs Ben Hamou. The same will apply to all the votes in this sitting.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u101	Of which act.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u102	Vote on amendment No. 2 by Hendrik Vuye cs to insert an Article 8(n). (2400/5) Vote on Amendment No 2 by Hendrik Vuye cs to insert an article 8(n). (2400/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes [[29]] Yes No. 102 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u103	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 129 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 132 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2400/6) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2400/6) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u104	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 131 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2454/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2454/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u105	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 131 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2469/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2469/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u106	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 86 Yes No. [[25]] No Abstentions 21 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2473/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2473/5) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-22-54-plenair-ip174x.u107	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for the week of 26 June 2017. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sittings for the week of 26 June 2017. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Wednesday 28 June 2017 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Wednesday, June 28, 2017 at 2.15 p.m.
