ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic670x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister will first give an introduction. Ladies and gentlemen, I would urge you to put your questions as briefly as possible, since the Prime Minister and the Ministers still have international commitments.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic670x.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in recent weeks many have asked me for news of a collaborator whom you have seen regularly for more than ten years with me in committee. I'm sorry to have to tell you that he's dead. He died last night. This is Philippe de Sadeleer, whom many of you have had the opportunity to meet. I wanted to point this out to the members of the committee and to the collaborators of the groups; I thank all those who have made contact in the last few days. His funeral will take place next Saturday.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic670x.u3	Thank you, Minister. Could you get us the funeral home? Then, on behalf of the committee and all its members, I can express our grief to the family of Philippe de Sadeleer. I give the floor to the Prime Minister for the introduction.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic670x.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, NATO convened a special meeting in Brussels on 25 May for Heads of State and Government with a view to the transfer of its seat. This meeting is not formally called "NATO summit", mainly because of the agenda, less comprehensive and less systematic than the agendas of NATO summits. The meeting will focus on two main aspects. The first aspect is the official transfer of the new NATO headquarters to Brussels. Belgium, as you know, played a decisive role in the construction of the new seat. This new headquarters is a key element in NATO's transformation in the 21st century. For a long time, it will be able to meet the evolving needs of NATO. We hope that the site, bombed by the Germans and the British during the Second World War, will now be synonymous with stability and cooperation among the 29 Allied nations. This is also the first contact between US President Donald Trump and French President Emmanuel Macron, with the Heads of State and Government of the 27, soon 28, other states of the Alliance. It was agreed that discussions should focus on two priority themes: the Alliance's contribution to the fight against terrorism and a more balanced distribution of defence burdens among allies, burden sharing. These two topics allow us to discuss in a very concrete way what should be the essential and strategic objective of the meeting, namely the solidity of the transatlantic security and defence link, based on strong cohesion. Terrorism, and certainly that of Islamic State or Daesh, is a serious threat to the peoples directly involved in the Middle East and Africa. Today it is also the greatest threat to international stability and to the citizens of the Euro-Atlantic region. In the framework of the coalition against IS, Belgium from Jordan is using six F-16 Tunisians above Iraq and Syria. The use of these resources ends in June. The Netherlands cannot redeem Belgium, as The Hague had originally committed itself to it. Our country has also deployed some 30 special forces as mobile training instructors of the Iraqi army. Our country was approached to compensate for the departure of the Netherlands from July. However, such an operation is not included in the operational planning of Defence for 2017. On this subject, we received a formal request two weeks ago. We are examining it and are in contact with both the Netherlands and the international coalition. The end of this year should be crucial in the fight against Daesh and the absence of the Netherlands obviously opens up a discussion on capabilities. A series of measures aimed at NATO's contribution to the fight against terrorism, where the Alliance can bring real added value, include the exchange of information and intelligence which, mainly concerning foreign terror fighters, has always been a major focus of Belgium's attention. The new post of Assistant to the Secretary General for Intelligence and Security, created within NATO, responds to this insistent concern communicated by Belgium, notably at the Warsaw Summit in 2016. In general, NATO's adaptation to new security threats such as terrorism is, in our view, a sign of NATO's flexibility and vitality. I come to the Belgian position. Belgium wishes to continue its efforts to ensure that the government is better informed by its allies, in particular in relation to the threat posed by the jihadist fighting groups formed and operating in the Middle East and North Africa. That is why Belgium is calling for a better organisation of the dissemination of information in NATO. Belgium also wants to be a reliable and credible partner in the fight against Daesh and remain active, either in the coalition or in NATO, and as long as our presence is needed. Belgium is actively contributing to the international fight against terrorism. The Belgian contribution under the coalition has so far been greatly appreciated and strengthens the image of our country as a credible partner. Belgium is ready to consider the extent to which it will be possible to respond to the request for an extension of the F-16s. In addition, we will complement our Train, Advise and Assist detachment in Iraq with armoured vehicles, in order to enhance the protection and effectiveness of the special forces' mobile teams. Finally, I turn to the second issue: burden-sharing, both European and transatlantic, within NATO. Burden-sharing, if I can say so, is an old debate. But it is particularly relevant since in Europe, France and the United Kingdom, in particular, are reinvigorating the debate and some of the current political leaders, both Democratic and Republican in Washington and Ottawa, have classified the Cold War as a distant memory. They do not necessarily consider the transatlantic link to be an absolute necessity. This debate did not arise with the election of President Trump. Already President Obama and his administration also wanted European countries to invest more in their defence, which was reflected in the Defence Investment Pledge of the Wales Summit in 2014. The 21 member states of the European Union that are part of NATO post-Brexit provide only 20% of the budget's defence efforts. At their meeting at the Wales Summit, the leaders agreed to put an immediate end to the downward trend in defence budgets and to move from 2024 to 2% of their defence GDP, of which at least 20% would be directly invested in new equipment. In addition, the allies intend to acquire the capabilities needed by NATO, while improving the operationality and usability of their armed forces. It is clear to most strategic thinkers in Europe and also in America that NATO remains a vital security player today and in a not too distant future. The same applies to the United States. Europe has every interest in keeping the United States involved in European security and taking on the global security challenges with the United States. There is no alternative in the short, medium or long term. Europe has no interest in pushing the United States of America away. The focus of the debate on Burden Sharing is today on compliance with the commitments agreed in Wales, which were repeated in Warsaw. A more balanced distribution of defence expenditure between the United States and Europe is essential to the survival of the Atlantic Alliance. The perception by European and Canadian allies that it is time to increase their security responsibility has materialized by the fact that many of them have halted the persistent decline in their defence budget for many years. This led to an annual and real increase in spending (Europe, NATO and Canada) of 0.5% in 2015 and 3.7% in 2016. But the debate does not take place only within NATO. Indeed, a debate is being held within the European Union on a more balanced burden-sharing. France and Britain, in particular, are fervent supporters of a more balanced European burden sharing. The Allies agreed on the principle that everyone's contribution to burden sharing included not only the fulfilment of budgetary commitments, but also the development of capabilities according to NATO's expectations, as well as the deployment of troops to various operational theatres. The input-capacity joint, operational output is therefore the reference triptych. Therefore, it is expected that all Heads of State and Government will reconfirm, at the meeting on 25 May, the commitment made in Wales and discuss more precisely how to clarify political intentions through national reports called strategic level reports, the first of which should be ready by the end of 2017. The allies agree that the strategic level report will be presented annually, updated as well, and that it is for the respective governments or Heads of State or Government to determine how the national plan is represented. The allies are therefore asked to formulate political intentions that look as far as possible in the future. As far as defence expenditure is concerned, NATO expects the commitment of the government or Parliament to be clearly substantiated. The strategic level report will also indicate how the real increase in defence expenditure from year to year contributes to the completion of expected capacities and to operational output. In addition, it will be possible to make certain additional efforts a contribution. In this way, Belgium will be able to mention all mobilised budgets, which are even partially used for defence efforts, without being included in the defence expenditures on which the percentage of GDP recognised by NATO is based:host nation support policy, construction of NATO Communication and Information Agency, SHAPE village, Belgian branch of the international school of SHAPE, for example. The government has already carried out an initial analysis, which will enable various expenditures sometimes allocated by other departments to be included in our defence effort. This work will continue in perfect consultation with NATO, as part of the ongoing review of the Defense Planning Capacity Survey. I mean, I want to be clear. Belgium intends, of course, to remain a reliable and credible partner both within the framework of the European Union and within the framework of NATO, as these two organisations are in our view fully complementary. Belgium confirms that external security and defence continue to be provided in a multilateral framework, NATO being a cornerstone of defence. Belgium recognises the negative developments in the European security environment. The European and transatlantic allies expect our country to make an honest and reasonable contribution to collective efforts. I want to confirm our country's commitments at the NATO Summit in Warsaw. Under this legislature, our intention is to stop the savings in defence and to revive for the future with a logic of expenditure growth. In this way, we will respect the commitments that have been expressed. I would like to add that before the end of the year, our country will have to submit a national report. This plan will expose NATO allies to the path Belgium intends to follow. It will also specify the allocation of resources for investments in NATO-demanded capabilities and operations. The government's strategic vision, as I have already said, allows us to enter into this momentum called for by our allies. She's showing the way. The military programming law adopted by the Assembly recently developed, to the tune of €9.2 billion, the capabilities that can be made available to our alliances. This government shows the way, but efforts will continue in the coming years. Contrary to what some would have us believe, the Atlantic Alliance remains the most credible collective defence organisation. In view of the format of this meeting, unfortunately, a number of very important topics cannot be discussed in depth this time. I am thinking in particular of the question of the Western Balkans, the NATO-Russia relationship, NATO-EU cooperation, new threats such as cybersecurity. There is also a need to focus on these issues. These arguments argue, I believe, for the organisation of a real summit in 2018, which will be defended by the Belgian government at this meeting which will take place before the end of this week in Brussels.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic670x.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, this is an exchange of views, but I would first like to give credit to those Members who have asked a question to take the floor. I have my timer ready and I would like everyone to speak for a maximum of three minutes, otherwise not all fellow Members will be able to take part in the exchange of views. Mr Hedebouw, your three minutes go in now.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic670x.u6	Mr President, we are going to be strategic in three minutes! Prime Minister, I believe this is an opportunity to have an exchange on Belgium's NATO strategy. In my opinion, you're making a mistake thinking that the future of our defence will go through NATO. We do not share that view. I am starting from an analysis of the results of the various United States interventions in the region, allegedly carried out in the context of the fight against terrorism. I think that's pretty negative. See the results of the bombings in Libya, Afghanistan, Iraq. We shaved everything and finally, we created the soil on which terrorism flourished. I would like to talk more specifically about the current sequence, with the exits of President Trump. You're gonna meet him. Over the past two days, he has indicated that he wants to pursue an aggressive and offensive policy towards Iran. In the main focus of the fight against terrorism, he repeatedly cited Iran as the source of the problem. I ask you: do you agree with this American strategy? Should we be offensive to Iran, and will this solve the problems of terrorism? I must admit that in the light of the events of recent months, pointing to Iran as the main source of danger in the world is rather laughable, when we see the turning point that Saudi Arabia is in terms of ideology, armament and oil business. Do you join President Trump on this? I would like to talk about a second point, on which I asked you in plenary. We also have a very aggressive policy towards China. As you know, President Stephen Bannon's senior advisor has made it clear that, strategically, in the next five to ten years, a trade war, but also a military war, with China, should take place in the US strategic vision. Do you agree with this policy of hostility towards China, and do you think it will contribute to peace? Third point: armaments. One hundred and ten billion U.S. business, in terms of weapons, with Saudi Arabia! I heard Minister Reynders be firm on the issue of armaments. Do you intend to communicate to Mr Trump tomorrow our reticence, not to say more, about this business with Saudi Arabia? The last important question is that of the Belgian budget. Can you tell us whether or not Belgium will increase its budget to 2%? I heard Mrs. Rutten of the Open Vld say it was impossible. I heard another bell sound on the side of the N-VA, like we'd go to the 2%. Can you tell us clearly whether Belgium will increase its expenditure? I will not hide from you that I am very skeptical of this idea of spending an additional five billion while, on the other hand, we are reluctant to release 400 million for pension vergrijzing. There is a double standard in our budgetary choices today. Wouldn't it be time to put social before "military business first"?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic670x.u7	Thank you, Mr Hedebouw, for the discipline you have shown to respect the speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic670x.u8	I do not know if I will be able to maintain the same socialist cadaver discipline. I'll do my best.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic670x.u9	You can do that. If you're from Ostend, you can.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic670x.u10	On the contrary, maybe I just learned it off there. Prime Minister, I would like to hear your response to the arms deal between Trump and Saudi Arabia. That deal is remarkable, given the role Saudi Arabia plays in the Middle East in a number of conflicts and also in view of the offensive language vis-à-vis Iran. At the moment, the moderate forces in Iran seem to win the plea and be able to maintain themselves. The way in which the American President acted there, therefore, seems counterproductive to me. I believe that there is indeed a rather coherent strategy between the European Union and NATO. There's a lot of dialogue, even when it comes to defence. However, we are living in a time when there are opportunities to do more in Europe in the field of defence. What possibilities do you see in that regard? There is often talk of pooling and sharing. In practice, however, this is more about pooling than sharing. Sharing is more difficult because it depends partly on other countries. One also commits oneself to specialize. In this context, the replacement of our F-16 fighter aircraft may not be the most sensible move, because there is an excess capacity in Europe of fighter aircraft, namely 2 300 compared to 1 000 fighter aircraft in Russia. So I think we're going to have to focus on other sectors. As far as Russia is concerned, I hope that you will be able to argue in NATO for a multifaceted strategy towards Russia. It is also extremely important to keep the dialogue open. That is why our group has always been somewhat hesitant and opposed to an extension of NATO. I believe that sanctions should be maintained with regard to Russia. Some Member States, perhaps also in NATO, are in favour of reducing sanctions against Russia. I don't think that's a good idea. We need to maintain this tough attitude, but at the same time we need to open up channels for dialogue. The NATO-Russia Council is operational, after a short crisis after the conflict in Ukraine. That's operational again, that's good. Do you see opportunities to discuss the issue of Turkey? Turkey is a NATO Member State, but NATO should be the defender of a number of standards and values. One of the most important Member States of NATO, Turkey, is doing things that are not in line with our standards and values. I am referring, for example, to the fact that we attach great importance to democracy and human rights. Can that be brought up there? That is what we are in favour of. One final point concerns nuclear disarmament. I have put questions to Minister Reynders about this. Nuclear disarmament is difficult, but the NATO doctrine still prevails. We can't go too far, because, among other things, the Russians wouldn't want to come. However, the NATO doctrine of nuclear disarmament in NATO is only one track. There is another slope, namely within the United Nations. A very interesting route has been set in motion there. One hundred and twenty-three countries are participating in negotiations to achieve nuclear disarmament, but Belgium is not participating, while the Netherlands, for example, is participating. I find it strange and a missed chance that Belgium will continue to evade nuclear disarmament in accordance with the UN's piste. It is good in NATO, but there is also a UN path. If we like multilateral politics, then I think we should also commit ourselves to the UN piste.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic670x.u11	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your explanation. I will be very brief and ask my questions immediately. However, my questions are of a nature that I address them to Minister Reynders. It is, of course, important that we clarify the United States' foreign policy towards NATO and the European Union. After all, US President Trump has still not appointed some key figures. Until today, there is still no permanent US ambassador to NATO and no Assistant Secretary of State for European and Eurasian affairs. Until now, acting officials are still taking up these positions. In other words, the position of the United States is quite unclear to date. We therefore wonder what its consequences are for good cooperation in NATO and what impact it has today on Euro-American relations. A second point is that after that summit, as far as we understand, there will be no common position. That is a pity, because the absence of a joint communiqué creates some uncertainty, especially for the European countries. Do you have a view of the possible impact of this? Can you clarify and possibly also clarify the United States' effective commitment to NATO and to security in Europe? Thirdly, I may just not have heard it, but will any sanctions against Russia be discussed at the summit? Could you give us some more information on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic670x.u12	Mr President, Prime Minister, Ministers, NATO is the most important international defence force and pillar for our country. We must therefore remain a reliable and credible ally for NATO, especially in the changing security situation at European borders. It is also important to point out in our commitment to NATO that SHAPE has been established in our country for several decades. This is also an important commitment for the image of our country. The government decided to increase the Defence budget by 0.01 % in order to halt the declining trend and stabilise the budget at 0.92% of GDP. In the strategic vision of Defence, we note that in the next two years, the resources for operations will be reduced, putting pressure on our output, while sound output is still an asset. For my group, it is important that the funds be used for foreign operations in the UN, EU or NATO context. Prime Minister, can you confirm that? Prime Minister, you met NATO Secretary-General Stoltenberg on 2 May. What important topics have you discussed there, including with regard to NATO and NATO's seat? How do you estimate the impact of the new Trump administration on NATO policy, in particular vis-à-vis Russia? After all, I believe that there should also be clear agreements on this issue. Finally, there is an increasing emphasis in the European Union on a European defence pillar. My group is in favour of speeding up progress in the area of a European integrated defence policy. Prime Minister, how do you estimate the development of a European defence pillar in the short and medium term? How do you estimate the connection with NATO?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic670x.u13	Prime Minister, thank you for your very interesting introductory statement. I'll try to follow his path a little bit. As far as the fight against Daesh is concerned, we have pleaded here to organise a joint External Relations-Defence Committee to take stock of the events in Syria. I think this is going to happen in the next few weeks. You said today that you were perhaps open to extending Belgium's support in the fight against Daesh. Would I have wanted to know if there had been any specific requests in this area? We know that our F-16s are due to leave at the end of June and that the Netherlands is not going to take over. Is there already a request that there be a new F-16 participation in 2017 or are we talking more about the 2018 horizon? It is well known that at the budgetary level, for military operations still in 2017, there is a fairly limited level. What type of application did you receive? What answer are you going to give? You also talked about the link between NATO and Europe. We look forward to it. On 18 May, NATO Secretary-General Stoltenberg, in a meeting with the defence ministers of the EU Member States, highlighted the progress that had been made in strengthening cooperation between the Alliance and the European Union. He indicated that such cooperation had moved to a higher level. For my group, this is obviously essential, including in terms of the European defence industry and the civil-military synergies that this implies. I would point out that, for my group, the voice and positions of the European Union must be strengthened within NATO, whose role has also changed and evolved, particularly in the light of the changing international context. At the international level, Belgium will have to continue and strengthen its commitment to a defence Europe in order to enable the emergence of a truly emancipated European strategy, but always complementary to NATO's single strategy. Taking such a position does not, of course, call into question our country's place in NATO. We call for a more advanced and community-based Europe of defence. I would also like to remind you that our country's commitment to NATO is literally reflected in our various missions, whether in Afghanistan - I will return to that earlier - in the Baltic countries and, of course, in the sites of the Shape and Evere. But this link to NATO could also be ensured by the European Defence Agency and the High Representative of the European Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy and through a strengthened partnership between the European Union and NATO. I come to my more specific questions. What military, budgetary, human, material and strategic commitments will you make? What commitments will you make under this legislature? I insist: "under this legislature", because we had the debate within the framework of the Investment Plan and we know that all liquidations are planned for 2020. I would therefore like to stress very strongly on my question: what commitments will you make in NATO during this parliamentary term? You also mentioned the need for better dissemination of information within NATO. I agree with your request. But what course will you take to do that? We know that among the topics discussed is also the debate launched on the problem of strengthening and extending NATO's mission in Afghanistan. What commitments will you make in this regard and how will you respond to this request? Finally, I call once again for our country to use, in its bilateral contacts, the necessary problem of nuclear disarmament, in the framework of multilateral negotiations, in order to free our territory from any presence of nuclear weapons in accordance with the resolution adopted in this Parliament. What contacts will you make in this direction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic670x.u14	The list of authors has been completed. Traditionally, according to their size, I will now give the political groups the opportunity to take part in the exchange of views. Mr Buysrogge will be the first.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic670x.u15	Mr President, we should probably stick to the speaking time allocated.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic670x.u16	You must indeed keep to the three-minute speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic670x.u17	Mr President, I will certainly do my best.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic670x.u18	I'm just as hard on everyone. I'm strict, but I'm just.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic670x.u19	Mr President, Prime Minister, Ministers, thank you for coming here on the eve of an important NATO meeting, which we may not call a summit, but which is an important meeting. Unfortunately, it is important and necessary to re-focus the issue of terrorism. The suspected attack last night in Manchester has proved that the fight against terrorism remains necessary. I would also like to take this opportunity to wish our security services every success in preparing and carrying out their mission at the NATO meeting. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the military has been asked a great deal in recent years. They are highly employable and active on many fronts, not only in our streets, but also abroad, for example in Mali and Jordan, where they fly to Iraq and Syria. There is therefore a great deal of demand from our military. They also score very well in terms of output, which is appreciated by many allies. They are famous for their expertise, their precision and commitment. However, it is also important to think in the long term. The current government is doing the same. A strategic vision has been developed, and the Prime Minister has referred to it. A capacity increase is also planned. There are a number of important investment files that are being launched in this area. Two weeks ago, Parliament supported the path taken by the adoption of the Military Programming Act. An important signal that we wish to send from here is that it is important not only to continue to score in terms of output. Something must also be done on the input side. I have one specific question about Iraq and Syria. Recently it has been decided to do the expansion with the special forces, which are now operating on the ground. Was that at the coalition's request? Does it have anything to do with the non-commitment of the Netherlands, to become active in Jordan as of 1 July 2017? Mr Prime Minister, two weeks ago you were approached, and you were asked to think about doing something after 1 July. Can you say anything more about that? Who asked you that question? What timetable do you intend to make a decision on this, knowing that there will be an important NATO meeting this weekend?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic670x.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your presence and for having substantiated what is not a summit, as has been said by one of my colleagues, but a meeting that I consider, as well as my party, crucial. We will know what direction the Trump administration will give on the scale of the actions that can still be taken in the future within NATO. We care a lot about it. The external security of the European Union is at stake. With regard to the ongoing actions, those agreed at the Warsaw Summit, we would like to know what future relations will be with Russia. I understand that they will not be the subject of clear decisions at this summit. We can regret it. Hence my question, ministers, whether these issues will be addressed. Will these relations be discussed with NATO partners? The same applies to the situation in Ukraine and the positions we adopt, as well as the advice that NATO provides on this subject. Here too, the interest in clarifying certain positions, including with the Trump administration, is something important. We will also have an opportunity to discuss NATO with Turkey. As we know, this country is undergoing a fairly significant change, including in relation to the values that we all stand for together in NATO. Will we be able to discuss this as well? European countries, and therefore Belgium, must shoulder their responsibilities with regard to the rebalancing of cost-sharing. Our country, like other countries in Europe, has deinvested in its defence capabilities over the past 20 years. Today, the new international challenges and the new security needs of our continent demand that we address them. How can we finance this in the years to come? When I see that other countries are putting pressure on reinvestment, how will our country gradually be able to increase its capacity to invest in its defence arsenal to 2%? Where will these investments be allocated, Minister of Defence? Will they concern a material capacity or, given that there is a lot of talk about it, will they concern a greater deployment of men? Does that also apply to our country? In terms of the European Union's external security, NATO's action on the southern flank – as we were talking about the Eastern Balkans – is poorly defined. Some Balkan and Caucasian states have expressed their willingness to join NATO. Is this still on the agenda? Is this discussion still open, in view of the new international challenges? Finally, my last question will be about the recent visit of the President of the United States to Saudi Arabia. More than the commercial contracts that have been concluded with the latter country – which is anything but a model in terms of human rights – I am concerned about the US President's comments on Iran. What he advocates is different from the initiatives of the European Union since the opening up of Iran to more democracy and exchanges. In this connection, I would also like to know what the European position will be. Similarly, will this issue be dealt with within NATO?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic670x.u21	Mr President, Prime Minister, Ministers, thank you for coming to Parliament on the eve of this important NATO summit.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic670x.u22	Chairperson: Benoit Hellings. I have some questions. Firstly, Article 5 of the NATO Treaty. This article states that there is a collective commitment to help NATO countries when someone is attacked, almost the principle of one for all, and all for one. Trump is the first American President who has not explicitly said that he remains behind Article 5 of the Treaty, so to speak, so to speak, not to put Putin in his head. However, this is a very important principle, one of NATO's fundamental principles, namely a very high level of international solidarity. If one country is attacked, the other countries will also take action. Let me give you an example. After the attack on 9/11, Belgium also invaded Afghanistan, out of solidarity because Afghanistan had done such a terrible thing in America. After the failed coup in July last year, Erdogan reversed the reasoning. Despite being a member of NATO, he claims not to have received any support from the other Member States. So he's turning that argument around. My question is whether, at the time he is in Belgium for this NATO summit, Belgium will force Trump to make that important international commitment. I think this is the perfect time for him to make that argument here. Secondly, the NATO-Turkey-European army relationship. You know that many groups are in favour of a European army. The NATO Secretary-General has already expressed its support for this idea. We can ask ourselves a number of questions. I am also very much in favour of such a European army because I believe that this can increase the weight of Europe within NATO, especially at a time when we are faced with Erdogan Turkey. Just as we all believe that Turkey has no role in Europe, I believe that we need to think very hard about Turkey's place in NATO. NATO is not only a military alliance, it also has an important democratic dimension. I think it is difficult to call Erdogan's Turkey democratic today. What is Belgium's position on Turkey's future role in NATO? Let this be one of the arguments for the rapid establishment of a European army. Then I have two more punctual questions for the Secretary of Defense. All the understanding if you don't have the information on the subject, but perhaps you can give it to me later. During their mission, do Turkish NATO officers based in Brussels also visit Belgian military bases? Do they have access to all the information contained in the Belgian military bases? Were purifications also carried out in the Turkish officers' corps in Belgium in response to Erdogan's very regrettable action a few days ago?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic670x.u23	Prime Minister, I would like to take this opportunity to express a wish. My wish is not to follow NATO's 2 % standard, but for once perhaps the 2 % standard of the sp.a. I'm clarifying. NATO's desire to invest 2% in hard military power is really over. When it comes to guaranteeing security in Europe, but also if we want to play our part globally, we absolutely do not need 2% of the GNP of the European states. Over the last 15 years, Europe has invested three times more in its defence than Russia without the United Kingdom. If we include the US, NATO's budget is 11 to 12 times greater than Russia's budget. For the security of our own continent, we really don't need that. The 2 % standard of sp.a consists of 1 % hard military power and 1 % soft power. The security challenges facing Europe are not so much military. It's more about instability in the region around us. If we want stability in the region, we will not do so with hard military power, but with sensible cooperation agreements that we make with those regions. I'd like to apply this to Syria now. With regard to Syria and Iraq, a resolution was adopted in the Chamber in the middle of last year. In this resolution there was consensus among the members of the majority and opposition. It will not be with the military alone that we will solve the problems in Syria and Iraq. It's gonna take more than that. A good point for the government, if it is right, is that Belgium is doing more than its share when it comes to humanitarian aid. Belgium lacks what has been agreed within Europe, and this was confirmed again on 14 March 2017, namely more commitment to political stabilisation in the region, more commitment to healthy forces, more commitment to finding a political solution. So, instead of sending our planes over there again for another six months or a year to bomb as cowboys, I ask much more of Belgium's efforts towards the example of other European countries to find political solutions in that region. I think we are doing a greater service to the people, but also a greater service to our own security.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic670x.u24	Mr President, I would like to thank all the colleagues who have expressed their views, with the nuances that exist between us on a subject as essential as this one. I'll give you a few things. This is obviously an important meeting, because it comes in a moment that I would call unusual. For a number of months, there has been a change in positions: elections in the United States that open up questions, an unpredictability on how, at the start of the United States, we are going to look at the relationship within NATO. A moment of unpredictability too - some have mentioned it - because it is clear that, in recent years, Europe has been facing security challenges of another nature, in comparison with previous years: an extremely unstable and insecure situation (Mr. Van der Maelen mentioned this), in southern Europe, with not only Iraq and Syria but also Libya, which I think is too little to talk about and which is an extremely delicate issue for the future, which must be observed and for which we must see how we can act at the start of a more ambitious European political commitment. We also feel it well, we have a situation at the borders to the east of Europe, where the dialogue with Russia – a dialogue of which I am a supporter – is complex and delicate, since the territorial integrity at the borders to the east has not been respected by Russia, that there has been a contradiction with international law. And then we can see it in a moment when the European Union is asking itself fundamental questions about its future. We are talking about a new impetus for Europe where, perhaps, the defence pillar is one of the fundamental pillars for relaunching a strong European project, closer to the concerns of our citizens. And it is clear that security issues - as we saw in Manchester last night - are both part of the action that can be taken from different countries by ambitious policies to promote the exchange of information and to improve the capabilities of the security services, but also of the capacity for international cooperation - also European, of course - in order to try, by exchanging information, to act before the tragedy is committed. It is clear that this is the issue we are facing, and no one here believes, I imagine, that a single country will be able to solve this challenge of terrorism if there is not a minimum of cooperation at European and international level. This is the framework within which this meeting, which I believe to be important, will be held because, to tell the truth, it will be a meeting where I hope we will have more clarity.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic670x.u25	Présidents: Dirk Van der Maelen et Benoit Hellings. The last few months since the election of Donald Trump there have been doubts and questions among all political parties, but also among many governments. No one knows exactly what the US's final official position will be at NATO's table. It is an important moment, it is not a banal meeting for NATO as an international organisation. It is an important moment, I think, and from Belgium we will try to make a positive contribution and play a positive role at political and diplomatic level. This also applies in terms of capacity, where I hope to be able to give some clear answers. I will now respond to the few more concrete points I have been asked about. With regard to the relationship with the United States and Donald Trump's offensive message, we will always plead for political dialogue. We are traditionally in favour of political and diplomatic solutions. That is why I will plead, in my meeting with Donald Trump, on the margins of this summit, for our country's commitment to strong, loyal and strong bilateral relations. Moreover, we also consider multilateralism to be extremely important within the United Nations and NATO. Multilateralism is sometimes ungrateful, sometimes difficult, but it allows us to defend and promote values that we particularly care about, such as democracy or the rule of law. As a matter of principle, in multilateral forums we engage with people with whom we do not agree spontaneously, but this dialogue and mutual understanding must enable us to advance these fundamental values to which we are particularly committed. The first important message is therefore support for a stronger multilateral commitment. In recent months, following certain statements from the US, there have indeed been doubts as to whether the US still has any attention and commitment to multilateralism. This applies not only to NATO, but also to the UN, for example. We have established this after the first budget decision in the US. That's also a concern. Secondly, there is geopolitics. There is indeed a need for statements about, for example, relations with China. We are asking for a serene dialogue with China, at all levels. There is the political level. Look at North Korea. There is also the economic level. Free trade and freedom in economic relations remain an important issue. However, this cannot be done without rules and we must agree as much as possible on fair rules at international level. That is our conviction and is the second point in our plea. Thirdly, there are the values. I repeat that certain values are important to us. Mrs Turtelboom, there are questions about Turkey in that regard. On the one hand, we have always used clear language, including in this assembly, and expressed our concern about the evolution in Turkey. On the other hand, we must try to defend and promote our values within a multilateral framework, within the framework of NATO. That is also our duty and responsibility. We will certainly do so, without taboo. We must be open, we must be bold. However, we prefer to have a situation where it is possible to defend our views in a multilateral framework. Let me turn to the issues of contracts between Saudi Arabia and the United States, raised by Mr. Wouter De Vriendt and Mr. Hedebouw. If I was a teaser, which I am not, I would say that it is necessary first of all for Belgium to get in order in relation to all this. There are resolutions of your House that have, I think, been supported and that are calling for a debate on the arms embargo. Perhaps when one can convince one or the other government of a federated entity of that country, which grants authorization to sell arms while being a shareholder of the company, we will be better "armed", if I may say, to make an international plea to the United States. I say this with a smile and a bit of humor, being tease on a serious subject. What about the F-16? Let me be clear on this point. We received a formal request from the coalition on 9 May in Copenhagen. We look at it and study it using two parameters. Additional consultations are needed with the Netherlands, so that we can get an answer to the question whether the Netherlands is sticking to its position, or whether there is still a form of cooperation possible and, if so, at what time and under what conditions. There is also a need for consultation with the rest of the coalition. We hope to be able to reach a decision in the Council of Ministers on the basis of the clarity we are given. That is a very rational approach. Firstly, we have taken note of the decision of the Netherlands. Secondly, we received an application from the international coalition two weeks ago. Our rational approach is to study what is possible with the potential partners. Right now, I'm not in a position to give formal confirmations. That's for later. It is our intention, however, to do so as soon as possible. Then there is the budget and the 2% contribution. Everyone here knows the history of the 2% in Wales. Everyone is very well informed about that, I suppose. What's the situation? If we look at the matter from a distance, we have to conclude that since 1981 defence expenditure has been saved in Belgium. It has been a continuous movement since 1981. All the political formations of this assembly that have participated at some time in governments since 1981 have their share of responsibility and information in this continuing decline in the resources allocated to security and the army. No one can dispute this situation. What is the spirit and philosophy of the commitments made in Wales and recalled in Warsaw? The first priority is to stop the decline, to stop the continuous economies, when faced with the environment I have just described, an insecure environment in the south and east of Europe. Common sense calls on us to stop the savings and that is the commitment made: we are trying, under this legislature, to put an end to this decline in resources, and then, through a strategy through the law of military programming, to regain a line of growth in resources. This represents the pattern in which we are situated. The mechanisms within NATO will lead us, like all the other countries in NATO, to be regularly "monitored" and to show our progress in the required direction. Input is, of course, important. I agree with you. I don't underestimate its importance either. Nevertheless, output is also crucial. What am I pragmatizing? It is the reality that, over the past two years, we have regularly received requests from our international partners to participate in all kinds of operations. This shows that we are credible. If we never get an application from our international partners, that would mean that we would not be credible and would not be able to deliver an output. That is an important signal and an important message. For example, there is the question of whether the deployment of the F-16 Tunisians in Syria will be extended. That is how we are going to approach the question of budgetary means! I have no doubt that during the exciting budgetary debates that we have in the Federal Parliament, which has many budgetary specialists, we will regularly resume, after budgetary control, with the debates raised by this question of means. Mr Yüksel, you asked an important question about my meeting with Mr Stoltenberg. What was on the agenda? It was, of course, the preparation of the meeting in Brussels. That is an obvious theme for such a conversation. A more fundamental point on the agenda was a discussion on Belgium's sensitivities, in particular the role that NATO could play in the fight against terrorism. We had an important exchange of views on this subject in preparation for next Thursday's meeting. There was also a discussion about geopolitical developments, especially the situation after Trump's election in the US. These were important items on the agenda. Another very important point for our country, which I discussed with Secretary-General Stoltenberg, is evolution at European level. What can we do at European level, not just in the field of defence, with a view to strengthening the political and diplomatic role? Mr Van der Maelen, I am not in deep disagreement with you on one point. I do believe that the question is not "all military and nothing else". This is not our approach! I think we need military capabilities to build political and diplomatic capacity around the table. Where I may have a bit of nuance with you is that it seems to me – but perhaps I have not heard or understood – that sometimes there is a bit of angelism to think that diplomatic policy can be made without military capacity. I think that we are not taken seriously around a political and diplomatic table when there is not a minimum of capabilities, output. Maybe that's the nuance between you and us. But basically, when you say that we need to use soft power more, that's what we do continuously with the Foreign Minister. We're trying to do it as much as we can. When, for example, we are running for a seat on the UN Security Council, it is because one of our ambitions is, indeed, to work harder on non-military components, that is to say – you know them well as I think I know them a little too – what for development, medium- and long-term development strategies, what for the rule of law in some countries, what about humanitarian support when it is necessary, what about capacity-building, ownership in different countries? This is one of the issues that I also raised with Mr Stoltenberg during this meeting. How can we ensure that there is a more continuous thread, when unfortunately there is a military option, which allows for a faster extension to a diplomatic political option of capacity-building? I think it is a fundamental and crucial issue for Europe. For me, it's not about one political choice or another. In my eyes, they go together. How can we be more efficient at European level? That's an obvious question. I'm open to that. How can we give more support to European industry, resulting in positive economic effects? Some European countries, such as France and Germany, have direct economic consequences if they opt for more defence expenditure. This is not the case for other countries. So we should not be naive either. How is it possible to develop a more industrial strategy at European level with positive consequences for more European countries and not just for two or three European countries? That is a crucial question if we are to be more efficient. I have also opened another more delicate discussion. I am aware of that. What is the situation at European level? National budgets are under pressure. We are well placed to express our opinion on this. That budgetary pressure is also sound. In terms of public finances, we must be able to be more serene in the future and to become less fragile in the following years. This is a sound European strategy, but the pressure for reorganisation and the debate on the speed with which we need to clean up also make it difficult to do everything at the same time. It's hard. On the budgetary front, the Commission is very strict in saying, and I understand the reasons for this, that we must cut back, that we must reduce deficits. On the other hand, when Defence Ministers and Foreign Ministers meet to talk about a strategy and ensure that Europe plays a coherent role within NATO, we do not have the capacity to translate our commitments into financial and budgetary acts. That's also my answer to Stéphane Crusnière. He knows the subject well. He worked closely with my colleague Steven Vandeput's predecessor. He therefore knows perfectly well that when we decide on defence investments, the impacts are not felt during the Parliament in question, but massively on the next one. Military investment takes a long time; it has always been so, and it has been in the past. I am therefore replying to you that under this Parliament we are endeavouring, and it is not simple, to stop the process of savings. We have released €200 million of investments to strengthen the short-term output, that is, during the time preceding the implementation of our €9.2 billion military programming plan. And as you know, we have taken steps to reinvigorate the procedures for the renewal of our fighter aircraft. We are trying to be consistent and consistent. These are the few things I wanted to give you, as far as I'm concerned. But one more word about Russia. Russia is not officially on the agenda, but I do not rule out any discussion. It could be, and I wouldn't be surprised at all. What's the situation? There is no draft today for an adjustment of sanctions. This is not on the agenda, but let us be careful and wait and see what happens. I have the impression that it is necessary at European level, and this is also the plea of the relevant ministers, Mr Delors, to develop a more strategic dialogue with Russia. Today, only Ukraine is being discussed with Russia. This is important, especially for Mrs Merkel. It talks about Ukraine on behalf of Europe with Russia. I wonder whether there is no need to try to develop a broader dialogue between Europe and Russia. This should include not only territorial integrity, but also Russia's role in southern Europe and not only in Syria. In the meantime, everyone has understood that Russia's role in Syria was important and important in the geopolitical field. On Libya, too, we must learn lessons from the past and at least try to achieve a different dialogue with Russia. That is my plea at European level, in the lap of the European Council. I have the impression that we are getting more and more support for this, but I do not underestimate history. A number of new European Member States are afraid of a different approach to Russia, for historical reasons. We must also show respect for the history of other European Member States. I will participate in a summit with the Benelux countries and the Visegrad countries in a few days' time. This will be on the order of the day: what about Russia? Is the current approach efficient? I'm not so sure about that. Perhaps we should evaluate this and consider whether we should not come up with a different strategy, a fortiori with a new tone from the US vis-à-vis Russia and China? So much for a number of comments. Here are a number of reactions, some comments. Thank you, once again, for the tone of this exchange.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic670x.u26	I would now like to give the floor to the Minister of Foreign Affairs and then to the Minister of Defence to answer the questions that were addressed to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic670x.u27	Mr President, thank you for the proposal to give a zero of the sp.a on 1% for a political solution. However, the government is 100 percent in the process of finding a solution for Belgium in all conflicts. That is the real task of our diplomacy, of the Prime Minister, of myself and of other fellow Members. We are looking for a political solution, which is the only option. A military solution does not exist in many conflicts. It is possible to do something against a number of groups, but in the end a political solution has to be found. We are trying to find them on the basis of the Belgian vision, but within the European Union too, it is our job to work with our fellow Members. As the Prime Minister said, in a few years' time we may also be able to be present in the United Nations Security Council. We are trying to find a political solution in many different areas. I won't tell you about Russia anymore, everything has already been said by the Prime Minister. The reasoning is the same for other partners, namely: to have a real dialogue. We must be very strong on several points, for example in terms of the integrity of a neighbouring country, such as Ukraine, as well as in terms of human rights. The same reasoning applies to a number of democratic developments. I have heard the comments on Turkey. In the various cases, however, we must also have contacts. That was always Belgium's reasoning. It was the Harmel doctrine within NATO: very hard on several points but still continue to engage in dialogue. This is necessary with Turkey, for example. We know that it is necessary to work together, for example for the return of foreign fighters. Without that, it is impossible to really organise the succession of foreign fighters returning to Belgium from Syria or Iraq. Mrs Capoen, on the relationship with the new US administration, I must remind you that it is a tradition that it may sometimes take six months for a new administration to be put together. That could take even longer, I don't know. The six months aren't over. However, we are working with the United States representatives, whether they are acting or not. We have already had contacts with the Prime Minister and with the Vice-President, Mr Mike Pence. That will also be the case with the President. We will also have contacts with other US politicians. So we work with our partners on the problem. Mr De Vriendt, you know our position on nuclear disarmament. We are going to all meetings, to achieve a positive evolution, first of all in the area of the most important risks. The achievement of an agreement with Iran over the past year has been a political and diplomatic success, also thanks to a very strong commitment by the European Union. Now there is also a great risk in North Korea. We are also trying to work with different partners on this. But as far as disarmament itself is concerned, we are trying to work with the most important countries that have nuclear weapons. I have already given many answers to your questions about the UN. We may not agree on this, but we are sure that it is better to work with those countries which have a real nuclear capacity to achieve real disarmament. This brings me to the latest questions about some of the partners. I will not repeat what the Prime Minister said about Saudi Arabia. But I would like to draw attention to the fact that we are also seeking dialogue with Iran and Saudi Arabia. We regularly defend the idea that if we were able, after the Second World War, to recreate an order through the Yalta agreement – it is worth what it is worth, but it has given rise to the creation of the United Nations, the Bretton Woods institutions, to a number of efforts – if we could, at the end of the cold war in Helsinki, launch a system of cooperation for security in Europe, we can reach a solution in the Islamic world. In any case, it will be necessary for some form of agreement to be reached between Shiites and Sunnis and those who, through these convictions, lead a number of countries. And among them, we automatically find Iran and Saudi Arabia. If we can't get these countries to talk on the international stage, we'll probably cut ourselves off from one of the major issues in the coming years or decades. Indeed, we know – we must remember – that the first victims, today, are not in the streets of our cities, they are in the Muslim world. There are a very large number of victims in all these countries in the Middle East, where there are wars in which either Iran or Saudi Arabia are found. This is an issue and we want to participate in the search for a political solution. How can we get these partners to talk to each other rather than to oppose each other in a way that is often absolute? Finally, with regard to the problem of the Balkans, Montenegro is joining NATO. Ms Jadin asked a question about membership. In this respect, everything will depend on the individual merits of each country as part of the ability to work with NATO, as is the case in the European Union. But it is well known that Russian influence, which was unfortunately already very present by occupations in Georgia, Moldova and which is now in Crimea with debates and fighting in eastern Ukraine, is also developing in a number of Balkan countries. This is a dialogue that we will have to conduct with Russia. I would like to confirm that, therefore, our approach – this will still be the case this week – is to try to address these various points in a multilateral framework. I assume that everyone realizes that Belgium's weight in all these debates will be even stronger if we can act with partners, in particular, from the European Union and not simply through bilateral contacts with the United States, Saudi Arabia, Iran, China, Turkey or other partners you mentioned. Mr President, we do not diminish our capacity for action that – as I know – you believe very, very great with the conviction that Belgium should resolve, sometimes alone, a number of conflicts in the world. Perhaps we have the weakness to believe that sometimes it is useful to conduct these discussions by taking as many partners of the international community as possible with us.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic670x.u28	Mr President, I believe that most of the answers have already been given, but I would like to address a few specific military issues. First of all, with regard to operations and, more specifically, the fight against IS, Mr Buysrogge, it is true that we will soon be putting people on the ground. This is mainly a contribution that we can make through the rapid progress of the re-conquest of ISIS territory in Iraq. In order to be able to follow developments there, additional resources will be used in the very short term in order to be able to follow more quickly and in an adapted way. Additional personnel will also be deployed. There was also a question about the extension of the F-16. That question was asked two weeks ago in Copenhagen and was repeated in Belgium by Brett McGurk, the president's special envoy on the fight against IS. That is a question we need to look at. There are budgetary issues, but there are also issues relating to the contribution made by the Netherlands. There are also a number of operational concerns. Only when the government has an answer to all these questions can a decision be taken on a grant. I can tell you that it is my feeling, especially after the meeting of the international coalition in Copenhagen two weeks ago, that the next six months will be decisive with regard to the military defeat of ISIS as a military organisation in Iraq and Syria. In this respect, as Secretary of Defense, I am in favour of doing everything possible to give a positive answer to the American question, but that is not a decision that I am making alone. This decision will have to be borne by the entire government. Mr Crusnière, it is true that we have done a great deal in Afghanistan. Comparison of education rates and comparison of the overall security situation show positive developments. On the other hand, it now appears that relatives of the Islamic State are on the side of the Taliban. The Afghan Government is not prepared to regain all the power necessary to guarantee the stability and security of Afghan citizens. That is why we are investing a great deal at NATO level. It may be necessary to continue contributing to the Afghan Government in order to restore stability. This is not just a question for Belgium. We are present here with, among others, the Netherlands and Germany, which is responsible. We will consider with the Germans what contributions Belgium could make. Then a few words about European defence and the European foot in NATO. It is clear that we would very much like much more coordination at European level. However, we must distinguish between a European defence, a European coordinated defence policy and a European army. That's very different things. In this sense, we are in favour of building a European defence for many years. That is what we are doing in our strategic vision. There it is quite clear that we in Europe are an example of the work we are doing together in relation to the Navy, together with the Netherlands and possibly other partners, but we will see that in the course of the project. For example, we are also looking today for a specific cooperation with France on our land capacity. There is also the European Air Transport Centre (ETC) for which we decided, together with six other European countries, long ago to bring together some of our capabilities. That is why I would also like to correct a number of things, Mr De Vriendt. You often say that there is an excess capacity of aircraft hunting capacity in Europe. Well, I can only say that, for example, the specific question related to IS for Belgium clearly shows that not everyone is ready to make an effective contribution with F-16. If there are voices here to work towards an unfoldable and deployable army and defence, then it is necessary that we offer this kind of capacity in which we specialize to our partners and continue to do so in the future. Let me give you the opposite example. If we are all going to invest together in order to make humanitarian contributions and all together in Europe order a whole pack of A400MFs, we will be faced with overcapacity between this and five years in this area. So we will have to look at how we can deal with this in a useful way. In that sense, you are right that pooling and sharing is very important but also much more difficult. The Prime Minister also said that the industrial responses given in connection with a European defence show that sharing will be very difficult. I still have to see it happen, for example, that Germany is going to order French tanks, or vice versa. We all have beautiful dreams. We are setting an example by looking for concrete cooperation and from there trying to involve other partners and build a European defence from the bottom up. Mrs Turtelboom, you had a specific question about the Turkish officers. Of course, Turkish officers assigned to NATO are formally members of NATO and therefore have the same rights as other NATO partners. That does not mean that NATO partners can just walk in and out of our barracks and bases. But in the case of official NATO delegations at some location of Defense, the Turks will be there as well. They are treated as full partners. Indeed, many Turkish officers worked in NATO last year were told that their mandate was to expire with NATO. A large number of them are still in Belgium today, but not as a NATO officer or even as a Turkish officer, because that position was taken away from them. Many of them have applied for political asylum in Belgium. As you know, that is not within my jurisdiction. In any case, it is true that we are helping to find solutions for those involved in the recognition of their diplomas and the like, so that they can secure an income as long as they are here. It is also true that they consider the security situation in Turkey to be so unstable that they do not want to go back. Mrs Jadin, you asked a question about NATO's action on the southern flank. It is clear that the position of the members of the Atlantic Alliance may differ in this respect. NATO's contribution to the fight against terrorism is specific to this region, especially in Syria and Iraq. Similarly, our interventions in Mali, for example, are notified by our partners – and we are grateful for that. In my view, NATO's contribution to the fight against Daesh should be defined in terms of Defense Partners Capacity Building rather than in terms of material participation in combat. I'll finish. Mr van der Maelen, if you follow my policy slightly, you will be able to see that I am in favour of a 3D-LO approach for 100%. You seem to be opening up by saying that there must be a defence budget, even if we may differ on its size. I think that in the 3D approach, Defense should also be an absolute partner. If, as the other ministers have also pointed out, we want defence to have the power to table political diplomacy, then we also need to be able to ensure that humanitarian efforts can be made in all security and stability. After all, we can choose to build many schools or other infrastructure at the local or national level, but if security and stability in the country concerned is not guaranteed, then all this will have been umsonst. For this reason, I believe it is absolutely necessary to continue investing in our defence capabilities. We must be able to guarantee security and stability.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic670x.u29	Thank you, Prime Minister and Ministers. I need to correct a mistake from back there. In the reply, I shall first give the floor to Mr Flahaux, with my apologies.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic670x.u30	Mr. President, Prime Minister, Ministers of Foreign Affairs and Defence, thank you for your briefing and your answers. We have indeed lived for a long time with the mentality that we are going to have the dividends of peace. We lived somewhere in a world of Bisoun bear or false Bisoun bear because some had other ulterior thoughts. This debate is particularly interesting, on the one hand, because the Summit is taking place in Brussels and, on the other hand, because we are in the 50th anniversary of the famous Harmel doctrine which, at one point, has reconsidered things in NATO, in order to involve both Defence and "detente", if I may say so. It is important to recall, particularly at this time, that NATO is not only a military alliance but also a political alliance. It's a community of values. I thank the Prime Minister for his involvement in the military programming law, of course, with all his colleagues. I listened with great attention to Minister Didier Reynders this morning on RTL on what, in the end, is the synthesis and philosophy of our democracy. I think everyone would rather be able to continue to benefit from the peace dividends, but what happened again last night shows how much we need to change our software. We know how difficult the budgetary situation is in France, perhaps even more difficult than at home. However, President Macron has taken the decision to increase the defence budget from 32 billion euros to 50 billion euros, which is a rather considerable effort. The younger ones won't remember it. Wouter De Vriendt was probably not born yet, but I remember that President Mitterrand, in his time, had made it clear that the missiles were in the East and the pacifists in the West. Beyond this somewhat stoned sentence, what he meant was that you should not be naive. It's fundamental. What seems just as fundamental to me in the Prime Minister's statement is the fact that we must stand together, particularly with regard to the Netherlands, which are currently in political difficulty. We already knew that before the election. In 2010, when others had difficulty creating a government, if Belgium had been in this situation, it would have been very happy that the Netherlands would have come to its aid, if I may say so, for the intervention of our F-16s. Another point I think is important too. I guess you're going to have an opportunity to discuss it. This is North Korea's problem and its extremely aggressive attempts. Mr Hedebouw has obviously not mentioned this, because Korea is still a bit of a part of his software, even though it may have changed in recent times. Two other points seem fundamental to me: South Sudan and Yemen. The military situation is particularly difficult in both countries and has dire humanitarian consequences. Finally, the Prime Minister referred to this in his reply and I also intended to mention it: this is, alas, the absolute drift of the situation in Libya. Skhirat's chords are completely cancelled, if I may say so. It wasn't a good thing, even though I'm not defending Gaddafi. In fact, the Kadhafists are in the process of resuscitating in Libya. It will absolutely take new Skhirat agreements, perhaps at the instigation of NATO, to find a solution for this country which has extremely close links with the problem of immigration to Italy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic670x.u31	Mr President, I would like to make two comments. Firstly, on the budgetary front, there is almost a consensus that more military expenditure will increase security. I have the impression that this is taken for granted, but the facts seem to me to indicate the opposite. The billions that are being pumped into it don't bring more peace. The military budget of the NATO countries is 900 billion. 900 billion military budgets of NATO member countries. Russia: 66 billion. How will all these extra billions pumped into military budgets bring more peace to the world? We have just talked about Libya, which is completely a disaster in terms of intervention, and we continue, as if nothing were happening. We're gonna bomb, and we think it's leading to solutions. It's a first problem I want to expose. The second problem is that if I can join you in multilateralism, I have the impression that the policy pursued by the United States, and indirectly by NATO, is exactly the opposite. After the Second World War, there was talk of a logic of non-interference in the internal affairs of other countries, which was one of the fundamental foundations of peace in the world. We thought that we would no longer allow all countries to intervene where they felt fit, everywhere. But what is the United States doing? What does American imperialism do? It has been 20 or 25 years since American imperialism came into play wherever it pleases. And we're here, quietly following the Americans in this NATO logic. I think there is still a problem, and certainly now, hearing President Trump's statements. I really believe that with this warlike language to Iran, we are going to witness a second total destabilization of the region! So I would have waited here today, Prime Minister, for a clear speech to say that we are not following the United States, that we are in disagreement. And so, if the United States of America wants to use NATO to push us to war, we have to say no! We have to say no! Because that's the problem – and I hear colleagues saying it's not just a military alliance, but also an alliance of values. But what are those American values today, going to do sheriffs around the world? This will propel our own country to the level of war. I really believe that Belgium would have better things to do today, that it should rather have a much more peaceful, soothing language and invest all the billions that we are going to put for bombs in cooperation and multilateral dialogue with all countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic670x.u32	Mr Hedebouw, in order to give the other Members of this House some time in the reply, I would like to ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic670x.u33	This is a serious question, Mr. President! Belgium would have expected a more distancing speech from NATO policy. I regret this Atlanticist follow-up, which will lead our country to take decisions that are harmful to peace in the world.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic670x.u34	Mr President, I think we are facing a very important NATO summit, because it is also a turning point for NATO. Not only does the new US President say that the European countries are not making enough financial contributions to NATO. In addition, he said that I would come back to my point on Article 5 of the NATO Treaty, namely that if a particular country is to be called upon to maintain the one-for-all principle and global solidarity in NATO. I think that's very important. It would be a strong signal if all the other NATO countries managed to get him to confess. After all, in the changing geopolitical situation, with what is happening in Russia, in China and in Turkey, it is particularly important that, if NATO wants to remain in its present form, the American President not only points the finger at the European countries that are contributing too little money, but also says that the one-to-all principle and solidarity in NATO are essential. Mr President, I think it would be very good if Belgium were to send a strong signal in that respect to the American President and, in fact, from the summit itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic670x.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have three comments to make. Firstly, this meeting is an important opportunity for our country, also to talk about the real world problems. Terrorism is, of course, an important element. Unfortunately, that proved to be the case in Manchester last night. Secondly, I share your view, Prime Minister. Without the military, there can be no political solutions. How many political initiatives have been taken around certain conflicts? We didn't get there. I think it's an en-en-story and a complementary story. Ladies and gentlemen, questioning military security in the current context is the worst thing we can do. Thirdly, the budgetary aspect. I think we are now in the process of stabilizing. I think this is necessary. The 0.92 % I was talking about earlier is also an important step. After all, that means extra space for Defence in this legislature. When we look at our ranking in NATO, we are the second last country or the worst pupil of NATO. If we want to remain a credible partner, I think that in the long and short term we should do something about these budgets and make the necessary efforts. Quite specifically, I think we should look seriously at the question of the extension of the mission in Syria and Iraq. Safety has a price and does not come naturally, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic670x.u36	I would like to thank the ministers for their answers. My reply consists of three dots. Firstly, I would like to ask you to take advantage of all the possibilities of the openness that is currently available in Iran, with the important turning point of Rohani's reelection, and therefore not to go along with that alliance of the US President with Saudi Arabia and that harsh, offensive language against Iran. It is extremely important to monitor this line within NATO and within the European Union, otherwise we will have a backlash in Iran. A second point concerns nuclear disarmament. Minister Reynders, you say our country is going to all the meetings. I'm sorry, but that's not right. We are missing at the UN meeting with 123 countries on the road. I believe that a separate UN pathway can help to put pressure on the more traditional trajectory of nuclear disarmament, which, frankly, is not working very well. A third point is the importance of multilateralism. Of course, Belgium can only weigh if we are strong on the multilateral level. However, if there is little result from the multilateral, I think that a unilateral shot at the bow can sometimes be useful. Look, for example, at Sweden's action with the recognition of Palestine and the suspension of the military cooperation agreement with Saudi Arabia. We can debate a lot about Sweden, and we have. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic670x.u37	A concrete answer to a specific vote, on which I have my doubts.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic670x.u38	Ministers must also ask for the floor in this sitting.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic670x.u39	When I used the example of Sweden, I knew that there would be reaction and discussion. Once in a while, a country must withdraw from the multilateral consensus if there is no result. Belgium can do so in a number of areas, such as arms exports to Saudi Arabia. We don't have to wait for the multilateral to stop that. It is the responsibility of the regions to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic670x.u40	Mr. President, a short reply. I couldn't not react to the budget thinking. I think we all agree. We have to give our defense the means. We have had lengthy debates on this in the Defence Committee and in plenary. The disinvestment that the Prime Minister has been telling us about for several years is inconvenient with what he is doing under this Parliament. Over the entire legislature, two billion savings will be made on the back of the Department of Defense. That's the reality. With regard to the investment plan, there are liquidations by 2020. The means for investment are almost zero, except for the 200 million you mentioned. It is still without common measure. Nor will I go back to the issue of the lengthening of military careers. I recall that this has led our military to express their discontent in our streets. Recognize that it hasn't been seen in a long time! One last point. You talked about the nuclear weapon. You know that our resolution, adopted by this Parliament, insisted on a particular request, which was to free our territory from any potential nuclear weapons. I reiterate that, during the bilateral contacts you will have in this context, you should try to implement this specific request of our resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic670x.u41	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. With this we have fulfilled our mission. Prime Minister, you have a busy international agenda, so we leave you at your disposal, but we look forward to another opportunity to continue debating with you.
