ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic622x.u1	Minister, police judge Peter Vandamme stated that he was prepared to give a drunken driver a reduction in his sentence if that driver with a generous gift supports the victims' fund. A signal is given that, provided one wants to pay something for it, even if it is for a nice and good organisation, the judge grants a milder punishment. Not everyone has money left. The question is whether this is a violation of the principle of equality. In fact, the message is that it is not so bad, if one drives and drinks, as long as one regrets, and if one then has money left over and gives it to a good cause, then one avoids the punishment that would otherwise be given. In my opinion, this is a blow to the face of everyone who has been working for years for the PDO campaigns, in which we always hear that driving and drinking never go together. Minister, I would have liked to have heard your opinion on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic622x.u2	Mrs Lambrecht, as Minister of Justice, I am abstaining from any comment on concrete court proceedings and judgments by a criminal court judge, given full knowledge of the case. In the case referred to by you, the police judge has postponed the case for further consideration and therefore no final ruling has yet been made in open court. The judge shall have the duty to take into account all relevant facts and circumstances, specific to the case and to the personality of the accused, when justifying the guilt and measuring the penalty. That is the principle of individual treatment in criminal law. From the information you have given me, I am not suggesting that the judge would be envious of impunity or introduce discrimination. Policy-wise, I can tell you that, together with Mr Bellot, Minister for Mobility, I want to deal more effectively with serious traffic offences, including alcohol intoxication, with the possibility for the courts to impose stricter penalties. These proposals will be discussed tomorrow in an inter-kabinets working group.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic622x.u3	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic622x.u4	Mr Minister, my question is indeed about investment in computerisation in the Justice Department. Computerization is progressing with leaps forward, in the sense that almost one hundred percent of the rulings of courts of occupation and labour courts will be electronically available from 1 January 2018. This should also apply to the lower courts. In the context of this file on computerisation, I would like to take a look back at the friendly period of 2005, when the contract with the company Unisys was dissolved. We are now twelve years away and I would have liked to have had an update on this dossier. Is this completely locked down? Has this affected the speed and quality of the computerization of the Judicial Order? What steps have been taken in this legislature to reverse this delay? When I look at the budget of justice, it is difficult to distinguish between the investments in the area of judicial order, on the one hand, and the prison system, on the other. The appropriations for ICT all seem to have been combined. That is why I had the following specific questions. How much was and will be spent during this legislature on credits for ICT of the Judicial Order, on the one hand, and for the prison system, on the other?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic622x.u5	The termination of the contract with Unisys and subsequent legal proceedings is a complex legal file that I inherited from the previous legislatures. The counsellors of both sides are actively in consultation to find a solution. In order to give these discussions a maximum chance of success, it is appropriate that I respect the confidentiality of the negotiations. You are right to point out that the failure of the Phenix project, which specifically aimed at the digitisation of the judicial order's work processes, has caused us to lose many years of time in this area. With ambition and perseverance, but above all with modesty, we are trying to reverse the tide. As you pointed out in your reference to the media, we are making progress, but more than anyone, I know that the road is still long. Nevertheless, more and more steps forward are now emerging. It would lead us too far to give a full explanation of the ICT strategy and its implementation in the context of this oral question. I prefer to refer to the achievements at regular intervals. There is e-Deposit and VAJA, to which you referred. On 1 April RegSol, the electronic platform for bankruptcy files, will enter into force in order to relieve our clerks of the 200 000 deposits of claims per year. The electronic platform for electronic service will also be launched in a few weeks' time. It is correct that the budget lines for ICT of Justice were merged into the 2016 and 2017 budgets and will be in the following years. Indeed, the investment and recurrent costs of ICT of the different entities within the Justice Department are more closely linked than one thinks. For example, all services now use the same user environment, in terms of desktop, laptop and Windows basic user software. The contracts relating to data lines, data centres, firewall and so on are common. In addition, these purchases and service contracts will be increasingly shared with the other FPS entities in the future. That is why all the budget appropriations for ICT from the Justice Department were brought together in order to achieve a more coherent use of them. As we standardise and seek economies of scale more and more, the distinction is artificial. This way of working has already enabled us to achieve several million euros in savings in recent years.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic622x.u6	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I remember that the negotiations on the dissolution of that contract are still ongoing. I hope that this can soon be completed in a successful way for the government. I will read the answer carefully.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic622x.u7	Minister, we all know that a person sentenced in criminal matters to a fine from EUR 26 on top of that must pay a contribution to the victim's fund. I knew the time when we were talking about EUR 100, but that has now been increased to EUR 200. The amount was increased because there were deficits with the fund at a certain point in time. There wasn't enough money to pay all the victims. The amounts to which convicted persons have been held have been greatly increased. The figures show that in recent years there have been surpluses in the fund. I mentioned the figures in my question. For example, in 2015, there was a surplus of €13.7 million in the victim fund. Last year, a legislative amendment was voted on to increase regular aid to EUR 125 000 and emergency aid to EUR 30 000, to increase the number of victims to the fund and to ensure that the legal compensation is now covered by procedural costs which can be reimbursed. That is why I have a number of questions for the Minister. Is it possible to give the figures of revenue and expenditure for the year 2016 and the number of requests and positive decisions submitted? Is it possible to compare the revenue realised with the amount allocated since 2012? Is there any possible evaluation of the legislative amendment of June 2016, in particular the new method of declaration? From now on, people can also contact the fund electronically for their request. A number of victims' relatives complain about the paperwork that they still have to collect in order to get help and compensation. Do these complaints also strike this fund? Is the electronic capability still not sufficiently known to date?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic622x.u8	In 2016 the Committee made 1 464 decisions for a total amount of 11 513 482 euros, of which 1 101 865 euros for victims of terrorism. It should be noted immediately that the committee's decisions are not necessarily paid and settled in the same year. The reason for this is that the account number to which the financial assistance granted is paid does not always follow immediately after service of the decision. This can sometimes drag on for several months. Revenue for 2016 was estimated at EUR 40.8 million. The state of play in 2016 before the legislative amendment is as follows. There's a lot of numbers coming up now. May I tell you this, because it's illegible? All interesting figures, of course. As regards the question of paperwork for the victims, I can say that the victims of the attacks are very satisfied with the role of the victim fund. Immediately after the attacks, a unique telephone number and address was created that was available 24/7. The victim fund has been very proactive, has contacted the victims themselves as well as the embassies for the foreign victims, in order to provide support in the preparation of the file. It must be understood that a minimum of data is needed to provide adequate financial assistance. It is also sufficient that the victims submit one dossier to the victim fund in order to be taken into account for the status of national recognition. On the website of the FOD several model petitions can be found. With regard to the electronic procedure, the results of the e-box within the Justice Department are awaited, in order to avoid waste of resources and different procedures.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic622x.u9	Thank you for that answer. I will look carefully at the figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic622x.u10	Mr Minister, today our penal law obliges all judges to forfeit the cases that have served to commit a crime, as well as the property benefits that are in the patrimony of the convicted person. In drug cases, for example, this means that the car used to transport the drugs is forfeited, as is the turnover generated by this drug trafficking. This turnover may amount to hundreds of thousands to millions of euros, and not profits. In practice, this means that these amounts, which are effectively charged by means of special confiscation, are often impossible to repay by the convicted persons. Therefore, the judge sometimes resorts to part conditional and part effective confiscation. In this context, in the first half of last month, the Constitutional Court ruled that the current law and the compulsory confiscation of property violate the Constitution. Judges should be able to take into account the financial situation of the accused if they consider a special confiscation. They must no longer be allowed to do so automatically because the European Convention on Human Rights protects the undisturbed enjoyment of everyone's property. Any damage to it must be fair. I have three questions in this regard. First of all, has your cabinet in the meantime been able to analyse this judgment and assess its consequences? Secondly, would you like to propose a draft in the long term on this problem? Thirdly, do you think it is an option to amend Article 43a, last paragraph of the Criminal Code, to extend the power of moderation of the court to the cases referred to in Article 42, 1° and possibly Article 42, 2°?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic622x.u11	Mr President, Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, the judgment of the Constitutional Court and its implications on the ground are currently being discussed by the criminal justice expertise network of the College of Attorneys General. I would therefore like to know the College's views before proposing a concrete amendment to the relevant legal provisions. In its judgment No. The Constitutional Court ruled that the mandatory special confiscation, in application of Article 43 of the Criminal Code, constitutes only a violation of Articles 10 and 11 of the Constitution in conjunction with Article 1 of the first Additional Protocol to the ECHR, in so far as it obliges the court to impose a penalty which is such as to affect the financial condition of the person to whom it is imposed that it constitutes a breach of the right of ownership. The court will therefore examine whether the special confiscation does not affect the financial situation of the person in such a way as to strike an unfair balance between the public interest and the fundamental rights of the individual. It seems to me that the prosecution will also have to take into account the fairness and proportionality of this particular penalty in criminal proceedings. It is true that for the property benefits from the crime and the property and the values that have been placed in its place, as referred to in Article 42, 3° of the Criminal Code, such an adjustment was included in the last paragraph of Article 43a of the Criminal Code. A possible solution would be to include a similar provision in Article 43. However, I think it would be better not to include this in Article 43a, since the whole of this article relates solely to the confiscation of the items in Article 42, 3°.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic622x.u12	Mr President, Minister, last February I asked the Secretary of State, Mr Franken, about the repatriation of a terrorist suspect to Baghdad. The man allegedly had contacts with suspected terrorists in Germany and was forcibly returned from Belgium to Iraq. The Secretary of State then replied that this question was not within his competence or that of the Office of Foreigners and that it should be put to the Ministers of Justice and the Interior. I confess that we were in the middle of a debate on the law of 9 February on the expulsion of foreigners. This law was introduced by Mr Franken, while it was presented under the sign of security. I then pointed out to him that these matters fell within your competence and those of the Minister of the Interior, Mr Jambon. But let's not do formalism. Mr. Minister of Justice, I would like to ask you the following questions. Are consultations with the countries concerned planned in such cases? In this case, were the German authorities contacted, or even endorsed, prior to the expulsion? Can you confirm that the necessary investigations into the existence of possible terrorist networks in the European Union and Belgium were carried out before the expulsion? We are obviously concerned, like you, with national security and that of all our fellow citizens, but in view of the elements advanced in the press, we are talking about someone who has had contact with suspicious people. Who determines and controls the fact that an individual is a threat to national security? On the other hand, our country now has a whole range of judicial instruments to combat terrorism, but it is ultimately the "expulsion" option that has been retained here. How is the final decision made in such cases?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic622x.u13	Mr President, Mr Kir, I regret to have to say that your question does not allow me to identify the individual case concerned and that, in any case, I would not be able to comment if a criminal procedure is under way. It also does not allow me to determine the type of situation that is being addressed. I understand that this is an expulsion, therefore an administrative measure against a person known, in one way or another, for terrorism. I have no indication of the type of terrorism-related procedure that would be covered, or whether there is a criminal procedure or whether there is a criminal procedure. In a recent case of expulsion to Iraq, he was a person who had been convicted in Belgium but had served his sentence and had been released from prison. The expulsion decision is therefore a purely administrative decision unrelated to the criminal procedure in Belgium, since it is closed. If the person whose expulsion is envisaged by the Office of Foreigners is the subject of a criminal investigation, the expulsion shall require the consent of the Public Prosecutor's Office or the investigating judge. If the person whose expulsion is envisaged by the Foreign Office has been sentenced and is serving a prison sentence of more than three years, the expulsion requires a decision of the enforcement court and the Public Prosecutor's Office is heard. If the sentence, which is being served, is less than three years, the prison administration's agreement is sufficient. The prison administration was obviously aware of the needs of counter-terrorism and was in constant contact with the police and intelligence services. Specific rules exist to ensure the relationship between deportation and criminal proceedings, particularly in cases of terrorism, in order to avoid contradictions between the various decisions. As regards the relationship between the Belgian administrative measures of removal from the territory, on the one hand, and a criminal investigation in a Member State of the European Union, on the other hand, it is also difficult to decide here without knowing more about the type of situation concerned. However, if the person is suspected in criminal proceedings in another European State and imprisoned in our territory, the European State in question will most often have issued a European arrest warrant in order to ensure that the person remains in control once the Belgian sentence has been served. The execution of the European arrest warrant takes precedence over the administrative procedure of removal from the territory. Finally, with regard to the reason for the expulsion from the territory, this question falls under the responsibility of the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic622x.u14	Mr President, I thank the minister for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic622x.u15	Mr President, Minister, the government's plan to reduce the number of technical and scientific police laboratories from fourteen to five for Belgium as a whole raises enormous concerns among the staff concerned. If I take the example of the officers of the Federal Judicial Police in Mons - Tournai, it is the misunderstanding and fear that dominate. They are already experiencing a complicated situation due to a chronic disinvestment of their service, both in personnel and equipment. Thus, only seventeen people work in the Mons - Tournai laboratory while they should be at least thirty-four, depending on the framework. Therefore, when your colleague Minister of the Interior says that "for a country with a small area such as Belgium, it goes without saying that an organisation made up of five accredited laboratories is realistic for the performance of these tasks", this goes rather poorly. There is a real risk that the response times will increase and affect the quality of the investigators' work. In their opinion last year, the King's Council of Prosecutors, followed by the College of Attorneys General, is not wrong: they want at least one laboratory per federal judicial police, i.e. at least fourteen laboratories for the country. This is essential for the work of both the police and the judiciary. Therefore, Minister, these are my questions. What is the real objective of this project? Is it not likely to further deteriorate a service for citizens and the work of investigators on the ground? What would be the added value of reducing the number of labs? Do you defend to the Minister of the Interior the joint opinion of the College of Attorneys General and the Council of Prosecutors of the King who advocates for the maintenance of fourteen laboratories throughout the country? What answer can you give to the agents concerned who fear for their future and working conditions?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic622x.u16	Mr President, Mr Thiébaut, the principle of the reform of technical and scientific police laboratories is not a goal in itself but a legal necessity imposed by Europe with Framework Decision 2009/905/JHA of 30 November 2009. The requirement for accreditation constitutes a formal guarantee for the quality of trace analysis, the reliability of results and an easy exchange with other EU countries subject to the same standard. As far as police laboratories are concerned, the scope of the European Framework Decision is limited to the analysis of fingerprints carried out on police premises as back office. The Framework Decision therefore does not apply to the raising of traces on the ground by what is known as the front office. There are currently fourteen police laboratories, including Mons - Tournai, located in 26 locations. In addition, the Central Laboratory and the Judicial Identification Services of the Central Directorate of the Technical and Scientific Police are also included. As a result of the European accreditation requirement, the Federal Police has developed different scenarios to meet the required quality standards. Since this accreditation obviously entails an additional budgetary cost, each scenario takes into account management, human resources, TCI, logistics and infrastructure. At the request of my colleague Mr Jambon and myself, a number of scenarios are still being developed. That is why I cannot now make a final statement on a possible distribution between front and back office, on the number and the implantation within the police landscape. I am aware that it is this aspect that is of particular concern to laboratory staff. However, I can already confirm to you that the absolute need to meet the quality standard of accreditation imposed by Europe will be reconciled, as much as possible, with a service to the public and to the various police partners as effective as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic622x.u17	Minister, thank you. You haven't answered my questions much, but I take note.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic622x.u18	Mr Minister, recently the magistrates of the Antwerp Court of Appeal paid for an automatic defibrillator in their hall. Among other things, they had to organize a pancake battle in order to raise the money for such a device. The FPS Justice Department is apparently currently unable to place automatic, external defibrillators in the courthouses of the country. This is yet another example that shows that the FPS Justice has the greatest difficulty in providing a basic infrastructure in the courthouses, in the interests of both the judicial staff and those seeking justice. According to the Arbowet, the employer is obliged to ensure the safety and well-being of workers and visitors. So one can suggest that placing a defibrillator in public buildings is included. Mr. Secretary, do you consider a defibrillator necessary in a courthouse? Are you planning to make a budget soon to provide defibrillators in the courthouses?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic622x.u19	Mrs Lambrecht, I refer to the answer I have already given on a number of occasions in committee, which is still appropriate. I'm sure I'd like to repeat it. The placement of an AED device is not currently a legal obligation. It is also not installed by default in the courthouses. However, the correct use of such devices in certain acute heart conditions can undoubtedly have a life-saving character. In doing so, my services are developing an option to enter into a partnership with a non-profit association, in order to be able to install devices via a shared funding. This proposal will shortly be submitted for agreement to the Joint Management Committee with the judicial services, after which it will have to go through the normal validation procedure. Finally, I would like to point out that such an installation is only useful if the necessary framework is also provided for the training, monitoring and maintenance of equipment.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic622x.u20	Thank you for your reply, Minister. If the device is there, it goes without saying that people must be given an explanation of how it works. This also happens in the sports halls in Bruges, for example.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic622x.u21	Minister, the justice court in Turnhout has sentenced a twenty-one-year-old man to a probationary sentence of forty months for the rape and assault of a 15-year-old minor with a mental retardation. They met at a youth camp in 2015, after which sexual abuse continued until the summer of 2016. The man must only comply with certain conditions and must not go back to prison. He can't have any contact with the victim or her parents. He shall not participate in or organise activities aimed at minors. He has to be mentored for his sexual problems. I have two questions about that. Do you believe that this is an appropriate conviction for sexual abuse in a minor with a mental retardation? Don't you agree that our judicial system is underperforming in terms of convictions of rapes?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic622x.u22	Mrs Lambrecht, as Minister of Justice, I am abstaining from any comment on specific court rulings. In the punishment assessment, the judge chooses the most effective punishment for the protection of society and the victims and the avoidance of recidivism through, for example, the imposition of strict conditions in the context of therapy and guidance. Policy-wise, I can refer you to numerous projects that we have already launched in this legislature to strengthen criminal policy on rapes and other forms of sexual violence. In addition to concrete guidelines to the public prosecutors, we are taking initiatives to increase the willingness to report, to obtain better evidence and to ensure optimal reception and support for the victims. Within the framework of the new Criminal Code, the Committee of Experts also examines the definition of penalties and the level of penalties in order to achieve a more coherent and accurate set of instruments.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic622x.u23	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic622x.u24	Minister, when buying or selling a house, an offer is often negotiated by e-mail, or a sales contract is drawn up on the basis of it. The Antwerp court of appeal has now ruled that the agreement between buyer and seller by mail has no legal value whatsoever. This decision runs counter to the philosophy of the digital act, placing digital documents on an equal footing with paper counterparts. E-mails can no longer be thought away. I therefore think it is striking that the legislation in this area has not yet been amended. Minister De Croo wants to intervene and amend the law so that a sales agreement can also be concluded via digital means. Minister, do you agree with Mr De Croo's proposal, who is prepared to take a legislative initiative to enable contracts to be concluded by e-mail?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic622x.u25	Mrs Lambrecht, I would first of all like to point out that, in addition to the general principles of contract law and evidence law, specific rules are laid down in federal legislation, such as prior identity checks and the provision of information, as well as in regional decrees, such as land status, urban planning information and the provision of prior information in this area. Apart from this, it can be noted that e-mail and other forms of electronic communication in today's society can no longer be considered when concluding contracts. As I pointed out in my plan to recodify basic legislation in December last year, the right of evidence in civil matters is generally outdated and not adapted to technological development. The question of adaptation arises not only in this particular case on which the Antwerp appeal court had to rule, but also in the law of evidence contained in the Code of Economic Law, which is the cause of the problem. I therefore share your concern about the need to modernise legislation in this area. I will support any initiative in this direction. At the same time, I will also ask the working party in charge of the reform of the evidence law to give due consideration to this issue in the overall reform of the rules of evidence in the Civil Code.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic622x.u26	Thank you, Minister. I am a little reassured, but I do not fully understand whether Minister De Croo will take the necessary steps or whether this will go further through you. That wasn't very clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic622x.u27	Mr President, Minister, in order to provide a dossier, figures and statistics are, of course, crucial. In this way we get a picture of a particular problem and we can respond to it if necessary. The figures must, of course, be available. As an alternate in this committee, I have only limited need of statistics from the committee. I would therefore ask for figures only if they are necessary for a dossier in another committee or if they relate to the city where I live. For example, I recently asked a question about figures relating to the professional ban on convicted persons. The answer to this was that for the additional penalty provided for in Article 4 (3) of the Drugs Act, no specific penal code is provided for statistics based on criminal records. In this case, it is the Nomenclature Committee that decides whether or not to create a code. Given the importance of these figures, but also of other figures, I would have liked to know the following. On the basis of which criteria does the Nomenclature Committee decide whether or not to create a statistical data code? What is the full procedure for creating such a code? Can suggestions be made from outside the Nomenclature Committee to provide certain penalties with a code for further follow-up? If so, how are we supposed to do that? If not, do you think this should be possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic622x.u28	Mr President, Mr Klaps, in the second half of the 1990s, when there were several police forces, such as the municipal police, the state police and the judicial police in the courtyard, the Ministers for the Interior and the Justice Department set up a Nomenclature Committee with the aim of maintaining uniformity in the nomenclature between the various departments, such as the police and the police, as well as aligning the basic police nomenclature with the other levels in the criminal justice system, such as the public prosecutor's office and the Registry. However, the Nomenclature Committee is not competent for the nomenclature codes of the criminal register. The criminal record shall contain codes based on the sentences pronounced, which in turn shall refer to the article in question in the law making the offence punishable. For example, there is also a code for the professional ban, in particular code 700, with subcodes. The code table is drawn up by the criminal record service, which is part of the FPS Justice Department, and it is adapted in any legislative amendment relating to criminal offences. The code table is an internal instrument for the criminal record service. Outsiders can't make any changes to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic622x.u29	Mr Minister, we must look for a system to make it possible to consult, because in different professional categories a professional ban is one of the elements on the basis of which it is assessed whether or not a person is licensed to carry out his profession. If outsiders get little or no information about this, there is a major problem in practice. I therefore call on you to take a look at this and submit a solution to the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic622x.u30	Mr President, Minister, I know that Mrs Lambrecht has already intervened on this subject and that we know the circumstances of the decision of the Constitutional Court of 9 February last annulling the law of 28 April 2015 on the reform of registry rights, which, at the time, had been widely contested. In short, this is in line with the legal logic of the opinion of the Council of State and, consequently, I will not go back to the legal aspects. On the other hand, I will return to an element of reply that you gave to Mrs Lambrecht, during her intervention in committee on 22 February, when you stated that you had initiated a consultation to examine how to resolve this issue before 31 August 2017, a deadline imposed by the Constitutional Court, and that your administration would shortly propose a solution. I dare believe it! Therefore, can the minister let me know which actors are involved in this consultation? Will the bars be represented - they are still at the base of this stop? In the event that you are replying to me that the reflection is ongoing, which I suspect, there is no need to make specific commitments to perhaps enunciate one of these exorbitant principles which wanted the collection of registry fees to be fixed "applicant per applicant" rather than "cause by cause", which would result in adverse consequences for access to justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic622x.u31	Mr Maingain, as already stated in the Committee on Justice on 22 February, I am thinking with my administration and the FPS Finance about how to reform the legislation on registry rights following the ruling of the Constitutional Court of 9 February 2017. I can confirm, however, that the various actors involved in this reform will be consulted in due course and that access to justice will remain an objective pursued by the reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic622x.u32	I thank the minister for his totally evasive response. But he still does not tell us which actors will be involved in his consultation. That would be desirable. But I hear he's still silent on the subject. We'll see what happens. The more he confers, the more he prevents legal risks.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic622x.u33	The subject is very different, it must be recognized. I don't like the term "baby box." I'm saying it right now, even though it's in use. Recently, Minister, such a box was installed in Evere at the end of January. We know the principle. We know that this practice creates controversy. The Delegate-General for the Rights of the Child in the French Community considers these boxes to be an unfortunate palliative to the absence of a legal possibility of giving birth in discretion in Belgium. At the international level, the United Nations has also considered this approach to babies as an obstacle to children's right to know their origins. More concretely, it must be admitted that these boxes are problematic, in that babies are abandoned with the complete impossibility of obtaining information on their genetic heritage or on possible anomalies. Germany took this into account and passed a law in 2013 allowing the birth to be given in discretion, guaranteeing the anonymity of the woman who gives birth while ensuring the transmission of important medical information and the possibility for the child, at the age of 16, to ask a judge to lift this anonymity. We know that France has also legislated, rather by favouring anonymous delivery. If this system is not exempt from criticism, it is nevertheless observed that, of the 600 women who give birth under X annually in France, between 50 and 100 of them would be of Belgian nationality. There is therefore a expectation in Belgium for the establishment of a legal framework, not to mention that, without it and without quality perinatal care, clandestine births, as well as infanticides at birth, will unfortunately remain a reality, even if, fortunately, one dares to believe it, this one is totally marginal. However, it is not completely non-existent. Minister, do you have any idea how many babies are collected each year, especially in other boxes, including the one in Borgerhout? Do you see an evolution in this mode of abandonment of children – since we must talk about abandonment? Is there any idea of the number of infanticides registered per year in Belgium? I hope that statistics will be almost zero. Will you take the initiative to amend the Civil Code to move towards legislation that is close to or quite similar to that adopted in France and Germany, or will you leave this care to Parliament, with a real margin of initiative? Have you possibly set up a group of experts, an information network, in this regard? In short, I would like to know your position on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic622x.u34	Mr.Maingain, in my answer, I will draw heavily on the answer I gave to a written question from Ms.Fonck on March 10, 2017. According to the figures provided to me, the civil registry officer of the city of Antwerp, Borgerhout district, drew up and entered in 2007 a report of abandonment in the birth registers. He drew up a report in 2009, two in 2012, one in 2014, two in 2015 and one in 2017. The College of Courts and Courts was unable to communicate to me in a timely manner the number of infanticides per year. Nevertheless, the statistics of the Criminal Policy Department allow me to determine the number of convictions for infanticide in recent years: one case in 2009, two cases in 2010, two cases in 2011, no cases in 2012, one case in 2013, no cases in 2014, one case in 2015. Several legislative proposals to allow discreet childbirth have already been introduced in Parliament and are all being dealt with in the Justice Committee. Several parliamentarians share your concerns about the creation of a legislative framework for anonymous or discreet childbirth. However, this issue needs to be carefully considered. As you indicate, account should be taken of article 7 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child and article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights, which enshrine respectively the right of children to know their origins and the right to identity. Furthermore, the right to respect for the private and family life of parents, based on Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights, must also be respected. In addition, careful consideration should be given to whether the introduction of this regime has any other undesirable consequences. Thus, it is possible to open the door to the transfer of children for purposes that are not covered by such a regime, such as commercial grounds that may be discussed in case of pregnancy for others. Similarly, the use of such a regime could take place in situations other than force majeure. While experience abroad is undoubtedly useful in this debate, I would point out that there are already a lot of reception mechanisms, such as assistance organised by the Communities. In view of the above, it seems to me that the debate is continuing in the Committee on Justice, taking into account the various factors set out above.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic622x.u35	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic622x.u36	Minister, at the end of last year, the Belgian State was ordered by the Liège appeal court to pay periodic penalty payments to prisoners in Lantin prison. That was the outcome of a procedure initiated by some detainees following the prison strike in May and June 2016. The periodic penalty payments were substantial. Mr Minister, my group has been pressing for a long time for us to put forward various proposals for the introduction of a guaranteed service in prisons. The absence of this regulation has been noted on several occasions by the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture and Human Unworthy Treatment. In December 2016, you stated that you would hopefully be able to communicate about a guaranteed service in the short term. In the meantime, we are again a few months later. We await your answer. Minister, when has the European Committee on the Prevention of Torture and Human Dishonoured Treatment still spoken to our country about the absence of minimum service in prisons? What timing did you set for such an arrangement? When can we effectively expect a design to introduce the minimum service? Can you clarify the possible delay? How often has our country been sentenced in the past to pay periodic penalty payments to prisoners in the absence of minimum service? What amounts are we talking about?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic622x.u37	Minister, I go back a little further in time than Mrs Van Cauter, namely to the coalition agreement, which includes guaranteed services. We must introduce them, in order to safeguard the basic rights of detainees, especially since the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture and Unworthy Treatment has failed our country. In addition, there is the protocol agreement No. 351, which has been closed by the Sector Committee III since 2010. I remember the questions and answers with your predecessor De Clerck very vividly. It has always been said that arrangements for the provision of services would be defined in consultation with the social partners. That is what is needed, the strikes in prisons last year have shown once again. The Belgian State must now even pay periodic penalty payments or damages to some of those detainees as a result of these strikes. In addition, a strike in prison requires the police to jump in and this time the army also had to be deployed. That can't be the intention. Guaranteed services provide an essential response and allow everyone to remain in their core tasks and not carry out tasks that are not theirs. Besides, the police have other priorities. Minister, I have already asked you a number of questions on this subject. Also in December I put another one. You confirmed to me at that time that you had been consulting with the trade unions for a long time on the provision of services and that you wanted to communicate in a concrete way in the short term. In the meantime, we're a little over three months away. Where are we now with the introduction of the guaranteed service? Will you succeed in introducing them in consultation with the social partners? If not, Parliament will have to take an initiative. Finally, have legal proceedings been completed since my question of December in which the Belgian State was ordered to pay final damages or periodic penalty payments?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic622x.u38	The European Committee for the Prevention of Torture asked us on 17 November last year for pertinent information on the installation of a guaranteed service in prisons. The government has replied to its ambition to have a framework agreement by the coming summer to ensure the organisation of the continuity of detention. It is my conviction that we can do this in consultation with the social partners. In its reply of 13 March 2017, the CPT stated that, on the basis of the evolution of the file, it decided at its plenary session from 6 to 10 March 2017 not to issue a public statement and to follow up the dossier further. In the context of the visit of representatives of the CPT to Belgium in the coming weeks, they will also consult me on this. Work is ongoing on achieving the objective. As regards the amount of the periodic penalty payments, I can only give you an overview for 2016. Following the strikes in Brussels and in French-speaking prisons, two types of proceedings have been initiated against the Belgian State: unilateral requests and interim proceedings. These two actions resulted in 135 convictions by the Belgian State to ensure that detention conditions would be in line with human dignity and that on penalty of periodic penalty payments. The amounts and details of the periodic penalty payments shall be variable, from 20, 250, 300, 500, 1 000, 2 000 or in one case EUR 10 000 per day for non-compliance with or infringement of the order, in all cases from the date of service of the order. In the vast majority of cases, the Belgian State filed third parties' actions and/or appealed against the decision. A large part of the matter is still under way and the decisions are not yet final. In the cases in which the Belgian State made third parties' representations, 24 claims on unilateral applications were withdrawn and the periodic penalty payments therefore lifted. In the cases in which the Belgian State has appealed, either directly after an interim decision or after an unfavourable decision following the third-party action, 34 cases have so far led to a review of the original order and thus to the lifting of the penalty payment. In about 50% of cases on appeal, no judgment has yet been delivered. All decisions on appeal are still open to appeal. Today, the Belgian State has not yet paid a penalty payment in respect of a case resulting from the strikes in spring 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic622x.u39	Minister, it is certainly a good thing that you are continuing to work on reaching an agreement, but you will have to admit, together with me, that there is a long way to go. It's already in place. Today, the government has already made considerable efforts to improve working and living conditions in prisons as much as possible. You must take advantage of the tranquillity that is now prevailing on the ground, now that the moods are not heated, to continue to work on the guaranteed service. There is no point in postponing that problem further for us. We need this guaranteed service and I hope you will introduce it as soon as possible. We will, of course, continue to keep a close eye on the issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic622x.u40	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I have noted that you want to draw up a framework paper with the social partners by the summer. I look forward to the summer, as all of us do, but when I hear you say that you will come up with a solution by summer, that is, frankly, a déjà vu for me. I've been hearing that since 2011 and 2012. The year after it will be weather by summer. Meanwhile it is already 2017 and the guaranteed service is still not there. I'm counting on that very much. I agree with Mr Van Cauter. Right now there's peace, thank God. You need to forge the iron now that it's hot. Following last year's efforts by your staff and your cabinet, the time has come to find a solution to the guaranteed service, of which everyone can get better in the long term. I am firmly convinced of that. You have our support. I really hope that next year, together with you, I will not have to look forward to the summer of 2018 in order to obtain that guaranteed service, but that it can be for once this summer. There's a song by Rob De Nijs.It was summer, well now let it be the next summer please.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic622x.u41	Mr President, Minister, this is a question that I understand from the report that it has already been partially answered to a colleague. It is a question that I asked about the coverage of a number of forensic dental experts who have not been paid for their performance, including the identification of the victims on 22 March. Their invoices would have remained unpaid so far. Minister, I have read that some of these invoices have already been paid. There would still be one invoice open. I can therefore confine myself to the question of whether the remaining invoice was actually paid. My question has a second part, and that is more generally about the problem of late payments of court fees. Mr Minister, efforts have been made to provide additional resources so that the late invoices from the Justice Department could be paid. We can read in the press that more than 140 million euros of late invoices have been paid. This can also be partly derived from the discussion of the budget for the past year. Minister, I know that you have made efforts to achieve some uniformity and consistency in the registration of contracts, invoices and payment orders, so that this can be done smoothly. Does the question remain as to what is going on with the late invoices? Is there still a delay in payments? If so, how much is the delay? How many outstanding invoices have been paid in the meantime and for the various years, as I have requested in writing?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic622x.u42	Mr President, Mrs Van Cauter, the appointment of an expert in the context of a criminal investigation, with additional investigative actions, takes place on the initiative of the public prosecutor, an investigating judge or the police. The FPS Justice can only deal with cost statements if they are registered in a central accounting system. This presupposes that a contract to an expert was properly registered at the Registry or in the Office Secretariat. This presupposes that a magistrate has verified an expert's claim and that the Registry has registered the claim for payment of the statement of costs. The statement of costs shall be forwarded to the Court of First Instance of the FPS Justice for inspection and payment only thereafter. If the statement of costs is not passed on by a registry or public prosecutor, it is not known by the FOD and cannot therefore be paid. The three dentists received their assignments from two investigators. In the meantime, the administrative formalities were completed in order to pay all invoices. The largest invoices have now been paid. For further details, I should like to refer to the answer to question No. 16808 by Mrs Lambrecht. The basic allocation in the Justice budget, which includes the appropriations for expenditure on judicial costs in criminal matters, has literally been subject to underfinancing for years in a row, which meant that in the past, almost every year, a significant amount of arrears had to be carried over to the next year. Upon my arrival in 2014, it appeared that volume of unpaid cost states has risen to more than 62 million euros. By obtaining additional appropriations through the budget for the interdepartmental commission and through internal redistributions on the justice budget itself, the following evolution has been achieved since 2014 on appropriations for expenditure on judicial costs in criminal matters. In 2014, there was an initial loan of EUR 87.5 million, which evolved to EUR 100 million by the end of 2014 following a commitment credit, with a concrete amount of EUR 97.3 million to be settled, which is an additional EUR 12.5 million for the initial budget. In 2015, there was an initial loan of EUR 70.9 million, which evolved to 146.3 million by the end of 2015 following a commitment credit, with a concrete payment of EUR 147 million, an additional EUR 75.4 million. In 2016, there was an initial credit of 73 million euros, which evolved to 105.9 million euros by the end of 2016 following a commitment credit, with a concrete settlement of 105.8 million euros, which is an additional 32.9 million euros. In 2017, there will be an initial loan of 77 million euros, with additional funds from the interdepartmental commission, by analogy with 2016 and as a result of the increased counter-terrorism actions. I am doing everything I can to ensure that the budget is properly credited, which corresponds to the average annual consumption level of around EUR 106 million in court fees in criminal matters. I can tell you, however, that there are no major loopholes at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic622x.u43	Mr Minister, I should like to record, and I think that is a good thing, that there are no late payments, at least not in respect of invoices registered and passed on for payment. I do not know if it was a one-off or if it is common that between the transfer of the invoice and its registration, the check and then the order to pay and the effective payment expires one year. If this is still the case, the perception remains that there is still no proper payment. I assume your services will follow this, Minister. In my opinion, it would be a good thing for the judiciary if they were to continue along this path. Also with regard to the time lag between the delivery of the invoice, on the one hand, and the effective payment, on the other hand, some additional efforts could be made to speed up the payment of the invoices. It is a very good thing that the historic backwardness has gradually been eliminated.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic622x.u44	Mr President, Minister, it has been known for a while that you have a plan to redesign the judicial cantons on the basis of what you think can be a better geographical distribution and workload. In total, 34 peace dishes are closed in Flanders, while in the first instance there were only 29 closures. In West Flanders the peace dishes of Diksmuide, Wervik and Harelbeke disappear. In Geel, at the request of the Justice Department, even a new peace court is closed that has not yet been put into service. Minister, will this not further increase the distance between the citizen and the court? Is it really intended that people will no longer find their way to the court of peace? Is it already known when these peace appetizers will close? What happens to the buildings that will then be empty?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic622x.u45	Minister, I am also asking you a question about the closure of the justices of peace, more specifically that of Tubize. As part of the reform of the justices of peace, you have therefore decided to close Tubize's justice of peace. This decision is, for me, regrettable given the proximity of this jurisdiction. The citizens of Tubize, Ittre and Rebecq will now have to go to the justice of peace of Nivelles. So, minister, to go straight to the point, I have three questions for you. While the justices of peace of Nivelles, Brain-I'Alleud, Jodoigne and Wavre are maintained, what were the reasons why you closed Tubize's? On the basis of what objective criteria did you make this decision? Can you tell me what impact this decision will have in terms of job loss? Will the Tubize Peace Justice staff be fully reclassified to other workstations? The justiciable should not be the loser of this reform of the justices of peace. What are you planning on strengthening the justice system of peace in Nivelles, given that it has expanded its powers to include the municipalities of Rebecq, Tubize and Ittre?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic622x.u46	Mr Minister, I agree with these questions put by my fellow Members. I did not hear Mr Lambrecht's question. However, it is in the same sense. In spring 2015, you launched your Justice Plan. A chapter was also devoted to the peace appetizers. All this has led to a thorough rationalization exercise and a three-stage plan for the peace courts. In the meantime, you have decided that 34 peace courts will close the doors. Here are also the peace dishes of Harelbeke, Diksmuide and Wervik in West Flanders, while Wervik had another brand new building built. The building has only been in use for 2.5 years. There's a lease that says the Buildings Regie still has to rent the property until 2032. The mayors of the cities and municipalities concerned were never contacted. There is nothing known about the closure procedure either. Minister, I would like to have an answer to a few questions. Thirty-four peace courts will close. On what criteria did you decide which dishes should close the doors? In response to a parliamentary question by Mr Goffin, it appeared that the choice of the new seat would be based on the following criteria: the geographical location, the state and the status of the building, the preference of the peace judges and presidents concerned, taking into account the most practical location and workload. Have you made a decision on the basis of the same criteria? Secondly, if that is the case, how do you explain that the new building in Wervik will no longer be used? Does one criterion, if any, weigh more heavily than the other? Thirdly, to what extent did you take into account the proposal of the Presidents of the Peace Courts? Fourthly, what will happen to the new building in Wervik, which has to be rented for another 15 years? Fifthly, what will be the future of the peace judges who were indeed appointed for a peace court in a specific canton that is now being closed? Finally, has this decision already been approved by the Council of Ministers?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic622x.u47	Minister, I am not in the habit of asking very local questions, but last week I was somewhat surprised when I heard the report on the closure of the peace courts. Surprised is actually not the right word, because I knew you were planning on doing an efficiency exercise. When I heard about the peace dishes, specifically in the Antwerp region, of course I know the region best, I looked strangely at them a few times. My husband thought I was looking very strange at the table when I was reading that. With my iPad at the table, I'm not supposed to do that. I was a bit shocked, because in Antwerp it is about the closure of Hoogstraten, Arendonk, Herentals, Geel, Borgerhout, Berchem, Ekeren and Schilde. That's a big deal. Fortunately, Minister, my questions are general. I would have liked to hear from you what savings you actually make with that closure. How much is that for the whole country and how much specifically for the Antwerp? You can always give me those figures, of course. What will be very important in the communication that questions come in is, of course, also on the basis of which objective criteria were decided which peace dishes remain open and which would be closed. Besides, what's the future for these buildings? There are, I believe, buildings belonging to the Belgian State. So what's gonna happen to those buildings? Finally, very important in your communication as well, were the local authorities of the cities and municipalities concerned informed in advance by your cabinet of the decision, or is that not the case? I know that there had been consultations and proposals within the peace process and between the various seats in advance. This decision is a little different from that. I would have liked to have some explanation from you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic622x.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, this third phase of the peace process plan, which I have already mentioned in the March 2015 Justice Plan, has been the subject of political agreement for some time. There has been a wide consultation, both with the presidents of the peace judges and with the party leaders. Of course, this is an issue in which everyone will never be happy. I would say that this has happened as well as possible under the circumstances. To warn everyone long in advance who is not known by their own authorities only poses dangers for large leaks. That's how it works. Those of you who have ever taken responsibility know that. The government has agreed to this in the nuclear cabinet. It is not a personal decision of your servant. It's a political decision of the whole government. It has yet to be passed in the Council of Ministers at the time when we have completed the draft law on the modification of the limits of the cantons which, as you know, are in the annex to the Legal Code. This will therefore have to be passed through Parliament. You also know that the distances of our cantons are calculated on the distance a horse can travel with a cart in one day. This means that a certain update was therefore possible. Most of you will realize that a 10% reduction in this third phase is absolutely not an exaggeration, absolutely not. There is also the possibility of sous löjarbre, which has been explained several times here. This is a provision contained in potpourri V which has now been sent to the Council of State for advice. It will make it possible to maintain proximity in those places where the peace court is abolished. The municipalities concerned all received a personal letter and an e-mail immediately after publication. As I have already said, there has been extensive contact between all government parties. The criteria used for the final list rightly list most of you, such as the operation, the workload, the location, the state and the status of the building, the economic activity, the area, the population and so on. It is rare that all these criteria refer to one and the same place. That is rather difficult when six criteria are used. A choice must then be made. For the peace court in Wervik, my administration will contact the Government of the Buildings, which will have to negotiate the break-up with the owner. As for all buildings, that is the responsibility of the Buildings Regie. When the peace court leaves a building, Justice will return it to the Government of the Buildings, after which the Government of the Buildings will take the necessary steps to valorize that building through the termination of the lease, by selling it or by giving it another useful interpretation. It is there that the greatest saving lies for the federal government, alongside a number of peace judges' mandates, which will disappear in the long term. The figure will therefore be better assessed later by Mr Jambon, who is responsible for the Directorate of the Buildings. As far as the justice of peace in Tubize is concerned, I understand that it is difficult, but this is the case with all the sites where justice of peace will be closed. We have already received the justice of the peace of Tubize since then. Here too, the general criteria have been applied. Why one and not the other? This is and remains a question of appreciation of pros and cons. All available arguments are taken into account as far as possible, but at some point a decision must be made. Now that the decision has been taken, my administration is working on the practical application. Among other things, this is about an amendment to the law. The appendix of the Court's Code lists all cantons and should be amended. A number of transitional provisions are also needed. This dossier will pass through the Council of Ministers. Once this preparatory work has been completed – which will soon be the case – a concrete timetable will be communicated. The objective is to achieve full deployment over approximately two years. A detailed plan will also be prepared for all staff members and will be considered where they will be reassigned, where the needs are greatest but taking into account, as far as possible, the wishes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic622x.u49	Minister, many, along with me, regret that the proximity to justice is deteriorating considerably, and still at the level at which the most vulnerable come into contact with it. I hear the comparison of a distance a horse travels with a cart in one day. Of course, that is a nice boltade, but many people do not have their own car and will now, in much more difficult circumstances, be able to reach the peace court, which represents the Justice Department. I hope that not everything is as final as it seems to be now.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic622x.u50	Minister, I would like to complement what my colleague has said. Some people do not have a vehicle or the possibility of travelling by public transport. They also do not have horse and cart. I regret that this comparison is being made. I would like to comment on the savings.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic622x.u51	Excuse me, I know I'm not supposed to interrupt, but I don't think it's so neat to grab me on that horse with a cart. It is quite clear that we will ensure proximity in a number of places. Where public transport is problematic, certainly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic622x.u52	I would like to comment on the other points. If you are talking about saving and restructuring, look at the two local situations to which I have referred. I'll start with Wervik. My colleague also referred to it. There is a new building built by the city of Wervik, if I am in favour of it, and for which the Government of the Buildings now has a lease for twenty years, of which two and a half years have passed. This means that the next 17.5 years will have to be paid even further. I would point out that, on the one hand, this rent will have to be paid further, while the merger is proposed with Menen, where the Buildings Control is looking for a suitable location for your services because the peace court has difficulty finding a place there. So I do not understand the decision to transfer the peace court to Menen, where there is no suitable location, while in Wervik there is still a rent for 17,5 years. I would also like to refer to the consultation. I understand that discretion must be shown, but I do not understand that until a few months ago in my own city, Harelbeke, people of your services were actively looking for a new location for the peace court. So that has been lost effort for those people. It also came as a thunderbolt in the clear sky that the Justice of the Peace in Harelbeke was confronted with this. More, and that is the next question to which I have not received an answer today or which I have not understood so clearly. Some peace judges are appointed at the location itself. If I remember correctly, most of the peace courts that are now on the list for merging are going to disappear, places where the peace judges will soon retire or not be appointed in the canton itself, but in another way, which will allow them to be relocated. This is not the case specifically for Harelbeke, so no savings can be made there. One final remark. I read a majority press release on the criminalisation of squatters. Who's that called? The Justice of the Peace who is given more power to act in this case. That is a contradiction: on the one hand, the proximity of the court is called into question, on the other hand, the majority today in a press release calls for more powers to be given to the justice for crackers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic622x.u53	Mr President, I thank the Minister for his answers. I'm not hiding from you that they leave me a little on my hunger. I asked you for clarification of the criteria; you did mention six general criteria for these closures. I understand well, but I would have liked to have a little more details on the comparison, according to these different criteria, between the different justices of peace, especially in my constituency of Walloon Brabant. I will re-examine you in writing in order to obtain these clarifications because I am still greatly concerned, especially since in fine, you also said that the decision was difficult, that it had been complicated to find one place. We have to make decisions, of course, but what bothers me the most is obviously the consultations. You said that you had consulted the presidents of the justices of the peace - it seems to me logical - but also the leaders of the parties; which seems to me far less logical. I have the impression that, specifically for Walloon Brabant, it is indeed a political decision that you have taken, since it can be seen that all the justices of peace in the cities headed by the liberal ministers have been maintained, whereas those which are led by a socialist mayor have been abolished. I will therefore rely on the written questions on these comparisons. Like my colleague, I find that in such a case, access to justice is becoming increasingly difficult. There is a necessity, especially in the justices of peace, of a certain proximity. I can tell you that for the inhabitants of Rebecq who will have to go before the justice of peace of Nivelles, access to justice will not be easy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic622x.u54	Mr Minister, first of all, ladies and gentlemen of the sp.a. on the crackdown: there is not so much more power given to the peace court, a faster procedure is something else altogether. One will be able to work faster there. I've noted statements from your party's people over the past few days. I know that, out of economic conviction, you prefer to allow cracking in Ghent, that you even see it as a solution to a failing housing policy, but all on the side. Secondly, Minister, it may be useful to explain once again to some fellow Members what sous löjarbre really is, to judge under the tree, actually just in local areas, in town halls. I told you at the time that I would make my mayor's office available to the peace court if it wanted to be on the ground, if that were necessary. That's a real proximity, and a much greater proximity than today. That is a fine principle that we must respond to. Thirdly, as far as your decision is concerned, I'm going all the way back to my roots. At the time, I started at the bar in Herentals, one of the peace appetizers that is about to close. I understand the efficiency exercise. If you had asked me for a pronostics in advance, I would have gambled on Yellow or Mol and Herentals, but I never thought Westerlo would make it. The decision that Westerlo will make it will probably have something to do with the building. You are quoting objective criteria in terms of proximity, accessibility and consensualness, but I think it is a very strange solution. Herentals is a small town on my first working day in the office I dared to call it a village, which was obviously a mistake with social housing companies and hospitals, so proximity and concentrationux might have been a more important criterion. So I don't quite understand that decision. It is really important that you communicate well with the actors in the field and explain why that choice was made, because it was certainly a surprising choice for me. That one would drop, I knew, but that the beautiful but smaller Westerlo would make it on the larger Herentals was a surprise for me, and also for the people on the spot.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic622x.u55	Minister, in the past I have asked you questions about the payment period between companies. The law of 2 August 2002 on combating late payment in commercial transactions was strengthened with the introduction of European Directive 2011/7 with the aim of supporting small and medium-sized enterprises in Europe. The payment period between companies was fixed at a maximum of 60 calendar days, unless the term is contractually extended. The period of control and verification was also legally limited to 30 days, unless the contract allows for a longer period. However, the law introduces some restrictions to ensure that large companies cannot abuse their dominant position. For example, exceeding the maximum time limit, both in terms of payment and in terms of control and verification, is only possible if it is contractually committed and provided that there is no manifest unfairness of that contract towards the creditor. A judge may limit the time limit in the event of unfairness. In the answer to question No. 13512 of September last year, you replied that your services had not received any notifications or complaints about companies systematically using the legally authorised time limits to obtain a favourable payment contract. On the question of how many companies went to court last year to prove the unfairness of a payment period, the answer was that no data were available on this issue. Nevertheless, it is an existing problem that can best be tackled at European level. The European directive already mentioned is an important first step, but is clearly inadequate in its implementation. It is logical that there are few cases of unfair payment periods. When small businesses are suing large companies, they can lose important trade relations and income, while it is relatively easy for large companies to find new suppliers. An example of this has recently emerged in a Telenet press release. The company stated that its cash flow had increased, partly thanks to a supplier credit programme which allowed it to extend the payment period for certain suppliers to no less than 360 days. Since this practice creates liquidity problems for many small and medium-sized enterprises and a real solution needs to be found, I would have liked to hear from you the following. Have you been in contact with the sector to get a better idea of the problem? If not, do you intend to consult with the sector? Will you raise the issue with your European colleagues in order to find a solution that also works in practice?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic622x.u56	Mr President, I would first like to raise a point of order. At 16:45, I have to be out for 10 minutes, because there's a radio transmitter waiting. I'll be back, but if you want all your answers before 5:00 p.m., I'm gonna have to read soon. It's what you want. One can also convert the questions. At least I'll be back, but I'm just telling you, I don't want to be rude. Mr Klaps, Article 4 of the Law of 2 August 2002 on combating late payment in commercial transactions does indeed allow companies to agree on a longer payment period than that laid down in the law. However, Article 7 of the same law provides for the creditor to request the court to review a contractual competition which, taking into account all circumstances, constitutes a manifest unfairness against him. The example you cite, namely the extended payment period agreed upon by Telenet with at least a number of its suppliers, in this case 360 days, does not necessarily indicate the existence of injustices in the relationship between the company-debtor and the company-debtor. Indeed, a small supplier-debtor will not automatically be in a weaker position vis-à-vis a large company-debtor to which goods or services may be supplied.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic622x.u57	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic622x.u58	You didn't listen to me. That's because they're waiting for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic622x.u59	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic622x.u60	The interpreter must not follow; this is not necessary. I said why. I can do it in French, if you wish.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic622x.u61	No, no.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic622x.u62	Indeed, much will depend on whether products or services can easily be replaced by a similar and equivalent alternative. However, it may indeed happen that, for fear of damaging the commercial relationship, a small company supplier will not always exercise its rights as a creditor. In the meantime, this was recognised by the European Commission in its report to the European Parliament and the Council on the implementation of the said Directive and is seen by it as a factor which may hinder the effective application of the Directive. However, the Commission states that these imbalances, inherent in the market, cannot be fully corrected by legislative initiatives alone, so that a more systematic use of soft measures and out-of-court dispute procedures, such as mediation and alternative dispute resolution arrangements, seems useful. The Commission therefore recommends in its report that the Directive be retained in its present form. It also notes that more time is needed before all its effects become visible. However, the Commission will provide guidance on the establishment of a common methodology for calculating payment deadlines. As the report informs the European Commission, the European Parliament and the Council of the EU on the issue, it seems appropriate to await the Commission's guidelines on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic622x.u63	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. No one here expects a concrete solution from you within the month. That's impossible. A possible solution should be developed at European level. That, too, is clear. However, the fact that there are few complaints does not mean that there is no problem. In practice, it is almost impossible for small suppliers to do something about this themselves, because they depend on the large firms, for which they often work exclusively. I urge you to keep the item on the European agenda and, if possible, take steps in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic622x.u64	Mr President, this is a follow-up question, because in November last year the Minister replied to me that at that time 14 prisoners were staying in the Deradex section of the prison in Itter and nine inmates in Hasselt. About 160 prisoners, who at that time stayed in prison because of facts related to radicalisation, were imprisoned in ordinary departments. Minister, you said that in the short term a common roadmap would be drawn up with all the initiatives taken to deal with the problem of extremism and radicalism. In particular, it concerns the way in which cooperation between federal services and community services can be optimised. This initiative was launched at the Justice Houses Conference on 5 December. The launch of your action plan, which also provided for a specialised framework, was already a year and a half behind us. In the meantime, in early January, it became known that a network of experts against radicalisation and polarisation, in particular UFUNGU, is working on a new programme following a foreign example. You also mentioned that nine Islam consultants would be recruited in addition. I would like to ask you the following follow-up questions today. How many prisoners are currently living in the deradicalisation wings? What is the respective maximum capacity? How many prisoners, who are suspected of facts relating to radicalisation, reside in the ordinary departments of our prisons? Is the common playbook ready by now? If so, can you explain? What are your views on the UFUNGU network initiative? How does it relate to the playbook? Have the nine additional Islam consultants been recruited in the meantime?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic622x.u65	Mr President, Minister, I will leave the context behind my question, because I fully support Mr Lahaye-Battheu's question. I'll just come straight to my questions. How many prisoners are currently in the specialised wings in Ittre and Hasselt? How many prisoners with a risk profile or terrorist background are currently in the ordinary departments? How many prisoners with a risk profile or terrorist background are currently present in the five satellite institutions? Is it possible to get a split and therefore a figure per institution? Does it happen regularly that a detainee of the separate wing moves back to the ordinary regime? If so, why? Does this mean that, according to the prison staff, the prisoner is no longer a threat?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic622x.u66	Mr President, Mr Metsu, in Hasselt ten prisoners are currently in the special section for radicalised persons, the so-called Deradex. In Itter, there are currently 15 inmates in that department. The maximum capacity of each wing is twenty inmates. Since the start of the Deradex departments, no prisoners have been returned from these specific departments to the ordinary regime. However, the Directorate-General for Penitentiary Institutions is currently preparing a procedure and the criteria to ensure that these detainees are transferred and expelled from these specific departments. There are currently eleven prisoners in the Bruges satellite facility who are being followed by Celex, the cell within DG EPI monitoring the presence of radicalised detainees. Ten prisoners are in the satellite prison in Ghent, 15 in Saint Gillis, nine in Andenne and ten in Lantin. In the other prisons, a more detailed breakdown of the radicalised prisoners present is not yet available, but this can be provided to you in a separate table which I make available to the secretariat. There are structural contacts and consultations between DG EPI and the Communities. The development of cooperation arrangements and roadmaps between partners on the follow-up of radicalised detainees during detention is central to this. Since all the actors involved, in particular the prison services, the services of the Communities and the Islam consultants, fully fulfil their tasks in relation to this population, they cannot yet be finalized, but the works are progressing. Fifteen Dutch-speaking and fourteen French-speaking Islam consultants are currently active in prisons. Of the established framework of 27 full-time equivalents, 22.7 are currently working full-time, including three Islam consultants soon to join. The Muslim executive launched an accelerated procedure to recruit the remaining 4.3 full-time equivalents. As far as the UFUNGU network is concerned, I can confirm that during the specialized training of board members and staff of the psychosocial services of the prison with a Deradex department, in this case in Hasselt, as well as in the Flemish satellite prisons, the director of the Dossinkazerne provided a training module for radicalisation and disengagement as a trigger for this network project. In this respect, this network has thus contributed to the acquisition of expertise of the prison system on the phenomenon of radicalisation. However, the roadmap referred to above focuses on cooperation between the three actors mentioned in relation to concrete initiatives concerning the detainees.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic622x.u67	Minister, I understand that the roadmap announced in the short term on the cooperation of federal services and community services is still not in place. I'd like to insist on it anyway. This is very important for the most efficient approach possible for such prisoners. One cannot work side by side, one has to work together, if not the results are very difficult to achieve.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic622x.u68	Thank you, Minister, for your reply and wish you every success in your radio interview.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic622x.u69	Minister, I'm not sure I can speak as fast as you can. I will also avoid doing so, if only for translation services. In recent years, I have already had the opportunity to ask several questions on this subject, since unfortunately we have had to witness several dramatic situations. Violence against doctors has increased further in recent months. The College of Physicians has set up a contact point. From June to September 2016, more than 20 incidents of serious violence were highlighted, not to mention the black figures for cases of less severe violence. In relation to this, two advances seemed important to me. On the one hand, the emergency call component with an application 112 on smartphones, and on the other hand, the establishment of a list of patients at risk of violent slippage who would only be received in the firm under enhanced and strict security conditions. So I learned that the doctors, especially the ABSyM, had the opportunity to meet with you a few days ago. I would have liked to see with you the conclusions you reached from this meeting with the delegation of doctors. Beyond you, as Minister of Justice, would it not be time to move forward within the government, with the various ministers concerned - the Interior, Health - at least two of your colleagues, so that we can be more effective and, above all, more concrete in terms of actions and decisions? Much has been said, but the actions have not followed. It's obviously an opportunity to get back on track with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic622x.u70	Mr President, I did receive a large delegation of general practitioners last Friday, but also other care providers who feel vulnerable when they consult and make home visits. They are confronted from time to time with verbal or physical aggression. Their request for greater security seems to me justified. The important stumbling block here lies in the exchange of information between the professional groups concerned, all subject to professional secrecy, and the administrative, police and judicial authorities. To be able to communicate to health-care providers possible incidents or pathologies that increase the risk of violent behaviour or even judicial information to health-care providers where relevant, is important in order to be able to properly assess the risks to health-care providers and provide security measures. However, both professional secrecy and the secrecy of the investigation prevent it to a large extent. Providing health-care providers with direct access to criminal databases, such as criminal records, or vice versa, giving police and justice access to patient files, obviously encounters privacy objections and therefore goes too far. The same applies to the creation of so-called "black lists" of patients at risk or the refusal to respond to certain calls for help. In view of these elements, I would encourage regular consultation at the level of local police areas, for example between the security coordinator delegated to the guard circles of general practitioners and other health-care providers, and the security triangle of the mayor, the king's prosecutor and the police chief of the local area. In order to address the problem of professional secrecy, such consultation could be regarded as a case-cooperation within the meaning of the proposed new Article 458 ter of the Criminal Code, as I propose to Parliament in my fifth "pot-pourri" law, namely a consultation set up with a view to the protection of the physical and psychological integrity of healthcare providers. In such consultation, discreet agreements could then be reached on the necessary security of hazardous home visits, on the revision of a central police call number, on the registration of certain cases of assault, etc. and this information may be disseminated within the guard circles. The professional groups concerned may also be made aware of any incidents of violence of which they themselves have become victims and which they themselves may report to the police, notwithstanding their professional secrecy. On the basis of my competence, I will insist with the College of Prosecutors General, once this 'professional secret' reason of exception has become law, so that prosecutors are also sensitized. Other initiatives, such as an alarm bell, the organisation of calls during the day-care services or campaigns to raise awareness of violence against the target groups concerned, which can also contribute to increasing security, fall within the remit of my colleague from Safety and Interior and my colleague from Social Affairs and Public Health. I hope to bring colleagues together on this subject sooner or later with a view to joint agreements for a more comprehensive approach to the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic622x.u71	Minister, thank you. I already want to stress that this is not only about home visits but also about consultations in the firm. A general practitioner was again very recently assaulted very seriously in his office. I have heard the regular consultations with local police, judicial authorities, etc. Do I have to conclude, moreover, that the discreet agreements you are talking about offer the possibility of obtaining a list of patients at high risk of violent slippage in order to strengthen the safety conditions of healthcare professionals, whatever they may be, when they are in contact with these patients?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic622x.u72	I can't answer that in too much detail. Much will depend on the good cooperation between the local police area and the local physician custody area. If they get along well, I believe that many things will become possible under the new law.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-15-54-commissie-ic622x.u73	I can understand that you did not want to speak further on this point, but I would nevertheless like to point out that local contacts are not going to be enough. In big cities alone, it goes beyond the neighbourhood or the area of a city. This may also include attacks on paramedics or hospitals. Patients do not necessarily stay in their neighbourhoods, in their communes, or in their cities. I really believe, minister, that we need to consider a signposted system. In fact, professional secrecy is important, but one cannot continue to close one's eyes to these violent slippages that target health professionals in a particular way. This is all the more true given that patients have an obligation to intervene with patients.
