ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic751x.u1	Madam President, Minister, on 7 September last, France proposed to Belgium a "in-depth partnership" instead of a response to the call for tenders you had launched for the purchase off-the-shelf of 34 fighter-bombers. In our recent exchanges, both in the Military Purchases and Sales Committee and in the Defence Committee on 4 October, you said: "Het Franse aanbod maakt geen deel uit van de competitie". Two days later, at the small Council of Ministers on 6 October, the Minister for Foreign Affairs asked you, in essence, to talk to everyone, including France. As a prelude to your meeting, Didier Reynders told the various audiovisual media present that he would ask that the government still have contacts with the various partners, including the French partner. He wished not to reject the French offer, which you had suggested to do in the parliamentary debate that had taken place two days earlier. Minister, have you asked for a third legal analysis of this offer? If so, to whom? If so, what is its conclusion? Are the Prime Minister and the Minister of Foreign Affairs asking you to cancel the procurement process initiated by the RfGP? Have you had formal or informal contacts with your French counterpart, Ms Parly, since the letter was sent? What was the nature of it? When do you intend to respond to the French minister? When will the decision of the Council of Ministers be taken on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic751x.u2	Mr Top, I see that you have three questions on the subject. You can treat all three at once.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic751x.u3	Mr President, we are well aware of the file on the replacement of our F-16 Members. We have the candidates and the procedure. We started with five candidates: the F-18, the Saab Gripen, the Eurofighter, the Rafale Dassault and the F-35. In the meantime, two candidates have already dropped out. The French Government, with its proposal from the Rafale Dassault, presented a far-reaching cooperation agreement, but it did not appear to have submitted the file in accordance with the standard procedure. At the moment, therefore, the Eurofighter and the F-35 remain, according to our procedure. Around the Rafale, opinions would show that addressing the French proposal would be difficult or even impossible. In view of the answer you gave last week, that is also the position you are taking. You replied that further negotiations with France could put the Belgian State in a difficult position. It would expose our country to criticism and prosecution. It would also create difficult relations for our country with those states that have followed the procedures and respected deadlines. On the other hand, your French colleague is not very convinced of that position. According to advice from his legal service, continuing work is still an option. The French Minister for Defence, Mrs Florence Parly, even literally quotes: 'I always have good hope and I am determined because, although the Belgian Minister for Defence has not spoken in favour of the proposal, he has said that it is up to the Belgian Government to take the decision.' In her view, this implies that the game has not yet been played or finished and that the option of cooperation and purchase of French-European aircraft is still possible. In view of all this, I have the following questions. Firstly, is it true that you have not yet formally expressed your opinion on the new letter from the French Government? If not, when will you do that and what answer will you give? If so, what was your possible response? Can you give us a clear state of affairs? What timetable do you and the government have in mind? Finally, whether or not to join a European replacement story is a political issue. This slope is likely to be discussed within the government. Does this jeopardise the timing of the current replacement procedure? My second question is shorter and concerns Prime Minister Michel's press conference. He announced at a press conference with his French colleague Édouard Philippe that the government is continuing the legal analysis of the French offer. You had made it clear at a previous committee meeting that two legal opinions requested were not positive for the French proposal and that competition might take legal action against Belgium if we considered the French offer. It seems that the Council of Ministers has decided to seek new legal advice. What is the status of this file? When is the new legal advice expected? My third question is technical and deals with the Request for Government Proposal. In the RfGP you assign weight to different domains that will determine the replacement of the fighter planes. In the question I gave an overview of the calculation of how weights are allocated, which is divided into seven parts. Firstly, would it be possible to clarify the various criteria and to explain what is correctly understood under them? Ik denk bijvoorbeeld aan partnership and military cooperation, mission effectiveness, total cost of ownership. Secondly, what division of capacities or criteria is still being made within the criteria laid down and what weight is being assigned to them if any?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic751x.u4	Madam Chair, Mr.Minister, and my colleagues who have referred to the context, I will go to the point. At the last National Defence Committee on the French proposal on the replacement of the F-16s, you told me that "if the Belgian government continues negotiations with France, the state is giving way to criticism and is exposed to legal proceedings. France's offer will therefore be excluded from competition." However, a few days later, the small Council of Ministers decided not to follow your advice. Minister, what is your analysis of the current situation on this issue? When will the government take a position in this context and more specifically on the follow-up to the letter from the French Minister? Before making such a decision, do you intend to consult the Regions and the SPF Economy on the economic and industrial aspects of this replacement?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic751x.u5	Madam Chair, Mr.Minister, obviously within the government, we did not appreciate the way in which this matter was managed, in any case, the conclusions you gave here in the Defence Committee and your appreciation of the letter from the French Minister. It seems that the discussion in the small Council of Ministers has been quite difficult. I also realize that the discussion that took place behind closed doors, with the bad mood of the MR, which, decidedly, expresses itself more in camera than in public on this issue, has been the subject of publicity, probably due to those who saw it as an interest. I am interested in the fact that the Council of Ministers is limited to what many of us, particularly in the opposition, said, namely, that this French offer should not be rejected, that it was extremely important and that it should be studied in depth. In view of this reshaping on the part of the small Council of Ministers, I would like to know your position today. Minister, how do you intend to move forward on this issue? What answer are you going to give to the French government? I would remind you, for my part, that we are not just choosing a plane; we are consolidating a European defence. This decision is strategic and political. We can agree on the construction of a Europe of defence, and, beyond it, of a European political union. How are we going to move forward? On the legal front, what new issues are they on the table? What is the new calendar? How do you intend to study all the proposed offers and seriously analyse this offer from the French government in order to respond to them?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic751x.u6	Minister, the new French defence strategy was published a week ago and is therefore hot. To my surprise, there is no mention of strategic cooperation with Belgium. In this context, I have a few questions. Is this about the letter the French Secretary of Defense sent you recently? How do you reconcile this with the letter calling for a very extensive partnership between France and Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic751x.u7	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, both in the special Committee on Army Purchases and Sales and in this Committee on Defence, I have given detailed texts and explanations. So I will not repeat my answers and I will not take back a word of them either. Mr Top, if there are any questions about the criteria, I invite you to read the rest of my RfGP. I understand you've had time to see what it's really about. Then you will have found that more than 180 questions have been asked, in which the candidates participating in the competition can only point out that they think they can implement them. I also refer to what I said in the previous committee, namely that for obvious reasons we have determined in advance the way in which quotes will be made, and that this was discussed with the Department of Economics and the Finance Inspector. I also said at that time that we did not communicate this to the participants of the competition, and that we will not tell the public today, but that we have issued a closed envelope and put it in custody, both to the IF and in our own vaults. We also offered that letter to the Court of Auditors, which, however, did not wish to accept it. What's the situation now? In the meantime, I have received a three-page version, signed by no one, but with an accompanying letter from the French ambassador. This argument is of a legal-political nature and is the subject of a legal study. At the heart of the matter, it was indeed decided that we would have this additional document from the French examined in detail. I can also tell you that in the meantime I have also received a letter from the British Ambassador, who is speaking on behalf of the four European partner countries of the Eurofighter, asking for clarification on the extensive partnerships they offer. This letter also refers to an offer, I quote: '... for an in-depth defence and security partnership with Belgium.' In any case, I have said from the outset that this government has opted for an open, transparent and fair competition. I repeat what I have said on several occasions in this committee. The rules are clear and transparent for everyone. The evaluation methodology has been offered in advance to an independent body for evaluation so that we have the best guarantee of fair competition. I can also tell you that at the time the government decided not to go for one or the other partner. She has said that she will organise a competition for this. This means that no candidate participating is favoured or disadvantaged. And I want to keep it that way, because honestly, I think it takes the longest. I am also interested in the French proposal for a partnership, namely the development of a sixth-generation aircraft with cooperation within a European framework! As stated in my strategic vision, I have put the emphasis on moving towards a more European defence, with a capacitive anchor. However, we cannot ignore the fact that Defence needs are on the horizon of 2023-2030. As such, the legal examination of the French proposal is continuing. Mrs Grosemans, I have also taken note of the French defence strategy. It leaves amidst how strategic cooperation on replacement projects should be structured and cannot therefore give us an answer on how the French bid should be interpreted in that context. In any event, the government is analyzing all aspects of this issue. In the meantime, the procedure that has been initiated continues unabated.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic751x.u8	Minister, I asked you if a third legal analysis was being drafted. I didn't hear an answer. Are you talking about a deepening of existing legal studies and new French arguments? All right. Undoubtedly, according to the answers you have given us, there is rififi within the majority. The N-VA party rejects the French offer while the MR wishes to maintain it. It wouldn't be a big deal if we didn't talk about a EUR 15 billion market over 40 years. You have two political problems. The first one is the one I just described. It is clear that the MR no longer supports you in the procedure you had initiated and that you considered it fair and fair. Second, and perhaps much more serious, the geopolitical universe has fundamentally changed between the RfGP edition and today. Meanwhile, the Brexit took place, Donald Trump came to the head of the United States. The idea of a Europe of defence then emerged as the first step in the re-founding of the European Union. You can't help it, but your Prime Minister has thought, five or six times, that Belgium should be part of this Europe of defence. It is obviously difficult for the Belgian Prime Minister to agree to a €3.5 billion market, initially for either the British Eurofighter or the American Lockheed Martin. There's also a problem. Angela Merkel and Emmanuel Macron propose a new European fighter aircraft by 2040. The political situation has therefore fundamentally changed. What worries me is that any movement on your part - whether you reject the French offer, whether you accept it, or whether you continue the RfGP when there are only two competitors - could generate a remedy from a neglected competitor or from another remaining competitor. This is very serious, because it could have a budgetary impact. We could allocate these budgets to things other than legal remedies, such as trains or hospitals.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic751x.u9	(...) [[Not containing micro]] I note, Minister, that there is a difference between your opinion and the opinion of a number of government partners. Last week, you said that it was impossible for the French proposal to be dealt with further, since it was recommended by two legal opinions, while the government decided to examine the French proposal further. So it is clear that there are different views within the government. You reply that the French letter interests you and that it also focuses on the inspiration of your European vision. The proverb says: listen to my words, but do not look at my deeds. You may be interested in the European vision, but if it is effective at European level... For the sake of clarity, it must also come from the other European countries and their leaders. They are words, but it will now be up to all those European leaders to act, to work together and to make development decisive. I note, however, that you are continuing the course you have taken, as you have done with sending the request, despite everything that has changed at international level in the meantime, such as the desire of European leaders to cooperate in the field of defence, and like another President in America who raises doubts about cooperation with Europe and with us in particular. None of these things play any part for you to review the file and approach it in a different way.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic751x.u10	Mr Top, you have to be a little serious.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic751x.u11	Those are conclusions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic751x.u12	You're jumping to conclusions that are completely out of control. If the French proposal is so interesting, they could have done so perfectly within the RfGP, they could have perfectly applied the procedure and at that time we in the government could have made a very well-founded decision on the basis of what we had agreed. You are asking for openness and transparency to be put aside because I have received a four-page letter with which I must proceed. Well, I can't. Mr Hellings, I do not think I can be accused of asking for additional legal advice. You too draw conclusions that simply cannot be drawn. I want to work on this dossier as we have announced from the outset, as it should be. We will certainly not look at how the sp.a has shown us in the past.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic751x.u13	It is strange that things have to be stirred up from the past.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic751x.u14	That's annoying.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic751x.u15	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic751x.u16	Mr Minister, we should stick to this dossier, which already creates enough stumbling blocks.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic751x.u17	Let us, above all, do both.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic751x.u18	Madam President, I would like to speak. I simply note that what the Minister is saying here remains within the committee, but is not being heard. The Council of Ministers is asking for new legal advice. So there seems to be a political problem. You may or may not deny this at this time, but I note that there is a political problem. Last week's discussion led to the request for a new legal opinion on behalf of the Council of Ministers. Apparently, Minister, you and your fellow Members are not on the same page. As for my second question about the request itself, you always claim to be transparent. I simply note that I do not see any weighting factors in your answer to my question on the 180 questions. We do not have transparency in this regard. In the end, I will have to determine how one will have assessed at the end, while I do not get an answer about the beginning of the exercise at the moment. That is therefore a lack of transparency.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic751x.u19	Mr Minister, I note that there are more eloquent silences than words and, in my view, the absence of the MR in this debate is also so. I see a certain change in your attitude. Previously, you rejected the French proposal with a back of your hand. Today, you say you pay attention to it, but without any enthusiasm. I obviously agree with my colleagues: we are facing a political problem. I also note that you prefer what you call in-depth partnerships with Brexit or Donald Trump. You will understand that none of these prospects pleases us. They show that your statements about a European defence are just announcements because you do not translate them into reality at any time. It's obvious in this case!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic751x.u20	Mr Minister, I would like to welcome and welcome the fact that today the analysis of the French offer is continuing. That's what I remember from our interviews.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic751x.u21	Legal analysis.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic751x.u22	Yes, you say "legal analysis." In fact, you are well aware, Minister, that this is primarily a decision of a political nature. You know that!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic751x.u23	Mr Dallemagne, the rating is in the RfGP! All the elements are part of the file: policy, but also price, operationality, etc.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic751x.u24	I'm going to go on with my reasoning. I think we agree on this point: it is a decision of a political nature, accompanied by a whole series of industrial elements, a vision of European defence and the consolidation of the European Union. Others have said so and it is very important to remind him. You're accusing us of wanting to dump the RfGP in the trash. Not at all! Everyone agreed on this procedure. Everyone thought she was smart and interesting in some respects, even though criteria, transparency, etc. could be discussed. There is still a whole series of questions, but we agreed on the procedure. But the world has changed since then and I think it would be a bad decision not to want to see it. It's simple: the context has changed. We are not going to choose a plane that would not correspond to the desire expressed by our Prime Minister and other European officials to speed up the process of European integration. A window of opportunity has opened since then with Brexit, with the American will to promote America first, with certain dangers and threats to the East and South. We know that we can no longer depend on the foreigner for our own defence. Together with other colleagues, I come back from the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Romania. Belgium is now the last of the class in military equipment and defence research. We know that we must have a very important industrial anchor. That is also what needs to be considered today. We are not going to reject all of the RfGP criteria. On the contrary, it is a very interesting reading grid, including for the French offer. I think and hope we agree that there is no legal problem. We can put an end to the RfGP if we want to. We can also pursue it. At the same time, we can carefully analyse the French offer, which is much more strategically important, and which can also be viewed in accordance with the RfGP criteria. As far as the British offer is concerned, I know that the ambassador of the United Kingdom, whose role it is, is very present to know how the decision will be taken. I hear much less the other Eurofighter partners - neither the Germans nor the Spaniards. According to the defence press, Germany and Spain are preparing to turn their backs on the Eurofighter. It is also an extremely important element in our analysis. What the British present today as a European plane is becoming more and more like a British plane. This is an extremely important political element towards a country that has always blocked the construction of European defence. It's not a charge, it's a fact.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic751x.u25	Thank you, Minister, for your explanation. I hear several colleagues talking about strategic cooperation with France, while cooperation with Belgium is not even worth a footnote in the most recent revision of the French defence strategy. I hear here saying that we should join the project on the development of a French-German aircraft. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not even a footnote, but we are talking a great deal about bilateral cooperation. Several European countries are being addressed, including all neighbouring countries. If, however, you enter the search query "Belgian Belgique" or "Belgian Belgique," you will find zero results. We are not part of the French defence strategy. Does this mean that I don't think cooperation with France is important? On the contrary. In the past, we have worked very well together in the Balkan wars, in Afghanistan, in Libya, against IS in Africa. It's gonna stay that way. France knows that we will always support them in their demand for a European defence if it ever comes. Strategic cooperation can only be achieved with respect for each other's institutions, the legal framework and the rule of law. I hear here that there are different views and that there is a political problem. I find these insinuations totally unfounded and I do not see any attempt to influence legal procedures. Rather, I see France's outstretched hand to work side by side in the future. I hear the government say very clearly here that the competition continues: a fair competition with pre-established rules of the game, in accordance with our own legislation and with European legislation on public procurement. That's the only proper course of action. Moreover, it is the best guarantee that our air force and taxpayers will receive value for money, which has not always been the case in the past.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic751x.u26	(...) [[Not containing micro]] I'm being contacted by people from the neighborhood or the region with the regularity of the clock. Sometimes the number of contacts increases. Now there is again an increase in the number of e-mails and phone calls in which people complain about noise pollution, any adverse health effects, air pollution and, especially for the Kempen with its nuclear installations, safety. It goes without saying, Minister, that this does not call into question anyone, nor do the people with justified complaints in my view want our F-16 pilots to practice in order to be operational in the places where they are needed. My questions for you are next. How can we combine exercise, training and military expertise with good neighbourliness? Has there been a recent increase in the number of flights in the region? What about the spread? We have a distribution plan and there are dispersal discussions in and around Zaventem. Can we also develop an optimal distribution for military flights? Minister, in connection with previous discussions and contacts I have had on the issue with the military, I have also had a look at what options might be available to carry out practice flights elsewhere in the world. Has research been carried out on the health risks related to air pollution and particulate matter concerns? Are there any results, conclusions and recommendations from that investigation? Is it possible to consult between the military leaders and the residents of the neighborhood?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic751x.u27	Mr Verherstraeten, the F-16s flying above the Kempen are mainly and almost exclusively from the base of Little Brogel. With regard to the number of flights, there has been a decrease in the last 10 years from an average of 5 000 flights to 3 000 flights per year. This decline is in stark contrast to the exponential growth of civilian flights in the same region. I start with Little Brogel, where there are about 3 000 flights a year. There are no 3 000 flights above the Kempen, quite the contrary. Only a very small percentage of flights from Kleine Brogel go west, in the direction of the Kempen. It is true that part of the southern Kempen is a mandatory corridor for fighters to stay between the controlled flight zones of Antwerp and Brussels. When they pass by, they do pass through a rather narrow corridor; that is a fact. The number of low-altitude flights that are the ones causing real nuisance has fallen significantly in recent years. This type of flight is mainly carried out in a zone between Liège and Bouillon, so not in the Kempen. In addition, approximately 40% of the total F-16 flight plan is flown abroad as part of operations. By the way, in 2018 we also had an eight-week deployment to the United States in order to be able to operate a maximum of low altitude flights there. Pilots should also be able to do what they have to do at low altitudes. In the Kempen the zone extends from Antwerp to Kleine Brogel. If we fly there, we are actually talking about a height of 10 000 to 30 000 feet, which is 3 to 10 kilometres. As far as pollution and fine dust are concerned, if fine dust is emitted at an altitude of 1 500 metres, it would move 150 kilometres horizontally to the north and east under normal climatic conditions before reaching the ground. Given the altitude, the extent of the area and the wind effects, it is very unlikely that air pollution caused by fine dust from military aircraft could have a local effect at the Kempen level. By the way, the latest report of measurements by the Flemish Environmental Company of 2015 did not reveal increased benzene concentrations in the Kempen. Nor was it found to be a region with an increased concentration of fine dust. Mr Verherstraeten, as regards consultation with the neighborhood, I can tell you that people who address my cabinet or the regular channels of defence are all being answered. However, I think you will find with the answer I have given you that it is difficult to discuss this. The fact is that we are doing much less and that we are doing very much. It may be that there is a nuisance, but that is kept to a minimum. If there are specific problems, the people on the DOD website can find the phone numbers they can call.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic751x.u28	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I note above all that the number of flights is falling, which is a good thing. If steps can be taken without compromising pilot training, I would further encourage that. You also referred to a corridor in your reply. In any case, within that corridor there is a problem which justifies the legitimate complaints of those residents. You say people can call. My suggestion would be that, at least in that corridor, Defence should proactively contact the local authorities in order, for example, to go on the ground next spring, hold public consultation meetings and explain the efforts that are being made in this area and which you have just outlined. I think a lot can be solved with a little more understanding. Perhaps with what one hears from the people there small adjustments can be made, so that a lot of subjective nuisance can be avoided. I call for increased efforts to reduce the number of flights, especially low flights, where possible, and for proactive local hearings to be held in the corridor and in consultation with the people.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic751x.u29	Mr Verherstraeten, if you take local initiatives to get an explanation, for example, the municipal authorities are proposing to organise an evening, then I commit myself to explaining it. However, it is outside the scope of Defense to look locally for interlocutors to discuss it. People don't even know who to address at first, if you know what I mean. I am therefore kind enough to have our department explain, but the initiative to do so is best taken locally.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic751x.u30	I will inform the local authorities, which are in the corridor, of your reply, so that they can take the initiative if they so wish.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic751x.u31	I propose that we take one more question because after that it seems to me that it is time for the hearing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic751x.u32	Madam President, Minister, a request for construction must be made for windmills to be built and implanted. The Defence Department shall issue an opinion on this matter. On 25 September of this year, like Flemish Minister of Energy Bart Tommelein, you received a letter from the Flemish Wind Energy Association (VWEA) in which some concerns were expressed regarding military aviation restrictions. Among other things, the letter states that the talks between the VWEA and Defense, rather than solutions, have led to more restrictions. First of all, the many years of development and licensing work has been cancelled by the implementation of Eurocontrol radar guidelines, since they require a study for all locations in Belgium, even at distances of more than 80 kilometres from a radar installation. The result is that many cases with initially positive opinions are now subject to a negative final opinion. There is also the limitation of the validity of opinions, which indirectly undermines legal certainty as a legal principle, since opinions already delivered can or should be revised. It is also given that it is still not possible to install wind turbines in the Belgocontrol radar zones Koksijde and Florennes, as no mitigating measure is accepted, despite the fact that this is possible and successful abroad. Finally, it is pointed out that with the restrictions imposed it is impossible to place wind turbines with a tip height of more than 122 meters in CTR zones, despite the fact that nothing actually stands in the way of this. Renewable energy is crucial both for the future and for achieving the European standard of 13% renewable energy by 2020. Taking into account the freedom offered by the International Civil Aviation Organization and the regulations of NATO and Eurocontrol, I have the following questions for you. Firstly, are you prepared to do everything possible to think and act on solutions so that progress can be made and that this could benefit energy policy from renewable sources? Secondly, do you, as the Minister responsible, take the necessary steps to achieve wind farms in the areas concerned in terms of technical solutions? Thirdly, the call for more renewable energy and the increasingly stringent advice of the defence industry contradict each other. What solutions do you see for this problem? Fourthly, for what reasons are applications within the radar zones Koksijde and Florennes refused? Fifthly, do you have an idea of the number of opinions that have already been delivered that need to be revised? Finally, can you give an overview of the last year regarding the number of opinions that Defence received? I would also like to have an overview of the number of opinions adopted, the number of opinions adopted subject to conditions and the number of opinions refused.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic751x.u33	Madam President, Minister, my question actually has the same scope. I believe that we do not disagree on the substance of the matter, namely that wind energy can provide an environmentally friendly solution to our energy needs. In Flanders, I have prepared it myself, there is a wind plan by the Flemish minister for the construction of more windmills, but it is a very difficult, difficult matter, both by its own Flemish regulations and by restrictions imposed. We know that we live in a densely built country with a lot of air traffic. Indeed, this also requires special safety and amenities requirements. That's why the Defense and Belgocontrol have to look at a lot of applications to give their approval. We understand that Belgocontrol announced at the end of September that the consultation procedures will be reviewed and certain criteria will be relaxed, which should allow more room for the construction of windmills. Flemish Minister for Energy Bart Tommelein stated on 3 May this year in the Committee for the Environment that: "A working group with the Flemish government and the military services, under the influence of the sector federation, is actively working on solutions. I also expect that we will be able to present concrete results by the summer." I understand those results are not yet available. That is why I am asking this question for an explanation. It is clear that the wind energy sector is particularly concerned that we are in a blocking situation here. Mr Top already referred to the radar zones of Koksijde and Florennes. We have the Eurocontrol radar directive, which would lead to a lot of negative building advice. We note that the impossibility is created to build turbines with a tip height of more than 122 metres in control areas, while the current tip height is now between 150 and 200 metres. That is why I have a few questions, supplementary to those of my colleague. What is the state of play on the reform of aviation restrictions from the Defence Department? How are the negotiations going in the working group with the Flemish government? Are you in contact with your fellow Members, the regional energy ministers? What solution do you see to contribute to the development of wind energy in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic751x.u34	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I can confirm that the Flemish Wind Energy Association has obtained a mandate from Minister Tommelein to negotiate with the Defence Staff, and they would also do better instead of sending letters. In this context, two formal discussions have already taken place during the first semester. On the Walloon side, an official discussion took place between the cabinet staff of Walloon Minister Di Antonio, Defence and the Walloon sector organisation EDORA. A further consultation between Defence and both parties is scheduled for 26 October. That is what is being worked on. These consultations are a continuous process in which we must reconcile the interests of Defence and the wind energy sector. In addition, there are discussions between Defence and Belgocontrol to strive for a coherent policy and position for both organisations. Defence distributes an aviation map showing the main limitations. One last update happened a while ago. At that time, I too asked for a number of training areas to be adapted to the benefit of the wind energy sector. It is therefore not the case that we would be totally unfavorable. On the contrary, I said from the time I took office that we should go along with all the more green energy and that dossiers should be treated favourably, albeit with technical constraints. Since then, there have been a number of measures such as abandoning some reserve airfields, decommissioning the Glons radar, technological upgrades of our radar systems to better mitigate the effects of wind turbines, cooperating in projects to install gap fillers on wind turbines, which is a technical solution for radar signals that are interrupted and so on. We have therefore been actively involved in this in the past. In 2014-2015 the Defence Staff modernised its aviation maps in accordance with NATO guidelines. ICAO and Eurocontrol standards should also be applied to our communication, navigation and surveillance systems. The purpose of these Directives is to assess whether the physical presence of the obstacle can have an impact on the availability or quality of the communication, navigation and surveillance signal, and therefore also on flight safety, not only of ourselves but also of partner countries. As military radars offer good technological mitigation possibilities, this rarely leads to negative advice. These measures are therefore being taken. During the past year, the Defence Staff delivered 224 opinions in connection with applications for wind turbines. 98 were approved without delay, 112 were approved with conditions and 14 were refused. So it's not like nothing's possible. On the contrary, 14 clashed with a refusal and 112 were asked for restrictions for the sake of technicality. Wind turbines and their impact on our systems remain subject to the technology and standards that evolve over time for Defence. Wind turbines are also becoming more numerous and higher. Each decision is always part of a thorough consideration and study, in accordance with current standards. For the safety of our staff, we reserve the right to review the opinions after a certain period to take account of the evolution of the parameters evaluated. As I told you, Eurocontrol and the other standards have been added. The limitation of the period of validity of pre-opinions was introduced after we found that there was a very long period of time between the pre-advisation provided and the official application for authorisation. They ask for a pre-advisation and then finally the licence application, which often does not correspond and for which other European standards may apply in the meantime. When it comes to opinions in the context of official licence applications, there is no time limit. They will therefore remain valid for as long as the authorisation procedure is in place or as long as the licence is valid. There is no limitation on this either. During a subsequent consultation with the sector, this issue will be discussed in order to assess a reasonable period of validity of the pre-opinion with them. With regard to the problems in the radar zones around Florennes and Koksijde, these are civilian radars that provide images to the Defense Department. So that is not our technology and does not fall under our control, but they provide us with images. The use of another technology does not require any mitigation measures on Belgocontrol radars. For further explanations on Belgocontrol, however, I would refer to the Minister responsible for this matter. You can assume that Defence and I share the importance of the further development of wind energy, and that all changes and adjustments to flight procedures take maximum account of the applications of the sector. In addition, during the formal consultations, Defense itself launched a proposal to allow wind turbines in military areas. This was welcomed by the sector, although we should look with the Finance Ministers concerned at what that means for our property tax.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic751x.u35	Minister, I am pleased that we are working with the sector to find solutions. You also support the importance of renewable energy, and I hope that we can indeed come up with good solutions for planting windmills as far as possible in our country. I will ask your colleague about Eurocontrol's radar directive. I look forward to the results of the next consultation, where a reasonable period of time for the pre-opinions will be negotiated. After all, when applying for windmill projects, the deadlines are always long. That is a difficult point, but I understand, of course, the difference between a pre-advisation and an effective advice in the building application. I can understand that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic751x.u36	For your information, I would like to add something to that. I understand the industry's demand to make the pre-advisation truly legally enforceable, but then, of course, it is no longer pre-advisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic751x.u37	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic751x.u38	Thank you, Minister, for the reassuring answer. In the field of communication, however, it might be interesting to hold inter-ministerial consultations to coordinate the violins on this point.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-18-54-commissie-ic751x.u39	The remaining questions on our agenda are postponed.
