ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic708x.u1	Minister, the Order of Flemish Balies, together with the Walloon colleagues of the OBFG, launched an online application at the beginning of June that allows to submit all legal documents online, called DPA deposit. At best, documents are simply transmitted digitally to the court, but that can only be done if the court is connected to the e-Deposit application. Almost a year ago, the government started rolling out that application, which is looking at what can happen to the pieces. I have some questions about this launch. Can you explain this project further? Is there an agreement between the profession of lawyers on the one hand and the judiciary on the other? If so, what are the modalities of this agreement? Which courts are currently not equipped with the application? By when should the rollout be complete? What about civilians who don't hire a lawyer? Do they have the possibility of digital access? If not, will that be possible in the future? Will the project be evaluated?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic708x.u2	On 22 June 2016, a cooperation protocol was concluded between the FPS Justice, the legal professions and the Minister of Justice. This protocol agreed on cooperation on ten digitization projects. In order to optimise the digital exchange of information, it was also agreed that each of the three legal professions should have a central platform. The notary and bailiffs already had such a platform. The lawyer has now launched her own platform with DPA deposit. DPA stands for Digital Platform for Attorneys. The platform was established by the OVB and the OBFG and is a central communication platform for lawyers through which all communication can be done digitally, not only to courts and courts but also to other lawyers, clients, experts and so on. In accordance with and within the framework of the Protocol, the lawyer has engaged in talks with the notary and the bailiffs, both of whom have had their own platform for a longer time, in order to determine whether they can allow their communication on their platforms to take place. With the launch of this platform, the lawyer is taking a giant step forward in digitalisation. Where the DPA is the central platform of the legal profession that can run various applications that are useful and necessary for today's and the future's attorneys, e-Deposit is the specific application of Justice that allows the courts that are equipped with it to make digital conclusions. Technically, these platforms are paired so that they can be used to communicate mutually, safely, end-to-end. In practice, this means that, for example, a conclusion from the software for lawyers can be placed in the proper file of the Registry. Of course, the DPA platform allows more than e-Deposit. For example, RegSol, the central curator's file, is also connected to it, but also the link to the National Register, etc. The courts and courts that are currently affiliated are the courts of appeal, the labour courts, the courts of commerce, the courts of first instance which are pilots of Antwerp, Liège, Namur and Ghent, the peace courts that are pilots of Antwerp, first and second cantons; Charleroi, second cantons; Tubeke; Châtelet, Herne, Marche-en-Famenne, Nivelles and Sint-Pieters-Leeuw. Systemically, all other courts will be joined so that, in the course of 2018, it will be possible to make electronic submissions to all courts forming part of the judicial order. Citizens who have not appointed a lawyer may already use e-Deposit from the start via the website of the FPS Justice Department. They can lay down free conclusions and bundles of documents here. It is part of my policy that the citizens who want to take up their own business should have the same opportunities. This is true for e-Deposit, but also for depositing claims in the RegSol application. As for the evaluation, I have to tell you that all ICT projects are the slogan of some companies, they happen every day. The satisfaction of hundreds of thousands of users must be earned every day.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic708x.u3	Madam President, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I remember that this is a big step forward for the lawyer and that all courts should be connected to e-Deposit in the course of 2018. This means an important efficiency gain for everyone working with and for Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic708x.u4	Minister, in our country we have had the law on co-parenting for more than ten years. This means that the judge must, as a matter of priority, examine whether residence co-parenthood is in the best interests of the child if one of the parents so requests. You know my position on this: priority is given to problems in the field and to different applications by the judges. That is why I put forward a proposal to delete priority. In response to an earlier question, you said that an evaluation of co-parenting legislation would be carried out shortly. The law on residence co-parenting also provides for a number of articles in case one of the parents fails to implement the judicial decision. Then the law provides that the decision concerning the stay may be reversed or a penalty payment may be imposed. From what I know and read, these articles appear to be little used in practice. However, decisions are often ignored and children for a long time do not see the other parent, resulting in alienation. Recently, the British therapist Karen Woodall stated that children who did not want to see one of the parents after a divorce should be placed with that parent as soon as possible. Firstly, what is the state of play in the announced review of the law on residence co-parenting? Secondly, what about the claim that in our country all too often judicial decisions relating to the residence scheme of children are not carried out by one of the parents, while the other parent is powerless and this notwithstanding the fact that non-release of children is punishable and despite the articles in the Civil Code that can provide a solution? Thirdly, how does the Minister respond to the thesis of the British therapist Karen Woodall?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic708x.u5	I can inform you that, on the basis of the available scientific studies in March, the issue of the evenly distributed residence regime was discussed in the Family Court Working Group, which, as you know, is composed of professionals from the sector, lawyers, magistrates, clerks and representatives of the children's rights organisations. Opinions within the working group on the importance of the child and the organisation of the residence scheme are very different, as are scientific studies in this area. There is a consensus that there should be a positive starting point, in particular equal parenthood, but this is not necessarily the same as a evenly distributed residence scheme, as you rightly point out. A week-week scheme can be particularly difficult for the child, depending on age. A lot of parents would live with the idea that they are a bad parent if an unevenly divided residence scheme is pronounced. As is often the case in a matter which leaves a great deal of discretion to the judge, there is a need for more uniformity in assessment and a good justification. Many parents feel that their interests and the interests of their children were not taken into account in the judicial decision because this would not be discussed very much. Support for the organisation of the transitional arrangements and the lack of communication would also often give rise to problems in practice. Within the working group, the idea is put forward to register a checklist in the law whereby the judge should reflect at least a number of criteria relating to the assessment of the child's and parents' interests in the communication between parents. As an important study on the equal distribution of the residence scheme at KU Leuven will be completed this autumn, it was proposed to continue this exercise. The problem of parental suspension, which is linked to the non-respect of the residence scheme and the non-execution of judicial decisions on this issue, was addressed at the working group meeting in May this year. This showed that it is not a recent phenomenon and that, in the absence of objective elements, it is difficult to assess whether there is any parental withdrawal in the given situation. I do not have any figures to show that judicial decisions relating to children's residence arrangements are not being implemented while the other parent is powerless. I cannot therefore comment on the fact that this is all too often not happening, but I am aware, inter alia, of my contacts with associations dealing with this issue, that the application of the law of 18 July 2006 is not without problems. To answer your last question, I am convinced that there is no miracle cure but that emphasis should be placed on the timely identification of the problem and the search for an appropriate answer at every stage of alienation. In the fight against parental deprivation, I believe that a palette of civil, protectional and criminal measures is necessary which can be used appropriately. The focus should be on prevention, in particular ensuring that parents continue to communicate with each other and not use their child as a toy ball. In this respect, Karen Woodall's thesis that the residence scheme should be reversed in the event of parental withdrawal is a possibility which, as you yourself say, exists today but does not necessarily provide the appropriate answer in all situations.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic708x.u6	Thank you, Minister, for your reply, which contains a lot of food and drink as they say. I remember that in the autumn there will be concrete news about the evaluation of the law on residence co-parenting following the study of KU Leuven. It is important that you say that the lack of support in the exercise of the residence scheme is often one of the pain points. What can one do as a parent today? That is often just walking to the police to file yet another complaint for non-release, complaints that, as we know, are almost systematically dismissed. You also said that in many cases the lack of communication between parents is a pain. In 1995, the law was amended. He says that even if the parents don't live together they continue to exercise the authority together. So they have to make important decisions together. It is a pity to say it, but I believe that this happens only in a minority of cases in our country with parents who do not raise their children together. But what can the legislator do about it? That is, of course, the question. However, it is certainly harmful for the children.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic708x.u7	Président: Kristien Van Vaerenbergh.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic708x.u8	Minister, some people respond to impulses that push them into heinous, cruel, degrading acts for their victims. These perversions mark these victims forever with insoluble traumas. Minister, in the case of those incarcerated for the first time in the prison system because they have been held responsible for their acts of rape or paedophilia, what concrete measures have been put in place to frame their reintegration into a world where they could once again meet new victims? What is the recidivism rate of sexual offenders responsible for their acts? What are the causes of recidivism? What measures are in place to reconcile the reintegration and protection of victims? What are the methods used by your colleagues, the European Justice Ministers, to reduce the risk of recidivism? What is Belgium's place in the ranking of European countries with the least recidivism in cases of rape or paedophilia?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic708x.u9	Mr Flahaux, in the context of a possible release, any prisoner convicted of rape or paedophilia is examined not a specialized unit within the prison, specifically the psychosocial service. The Committee shall draw up a detailed expert report. The release of such convicted persons is always subject to the condition that the convicted person be treated for his or her conduct of sexual deviance, whether residential or outpatient. This condition is subject to supervision by both the Houses of Justice and the Public Prosecutor's Office, in consultation with the institution and the person responsible for the treatment. Other conditions for the benefit of victims are contact bans and temporary site bans. This is also common practice in Europe. For those sentenced to sentences of up to three years, the prison management takes the decision. In the case of a sentence of more than three years, the sentence enforcement court shall decide. As part of this oral question, I am not in a position to provide you with figures or statistics on the number of recidivism cases and their causes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic708x.u10	I understand that, in the context of an oral question, it is more difficult to respond to statistical requests. You have already pointed that out to me correctly at the time, but this question has already been tabled. I will ask this question again in written form. For the rest, thank you for your answers, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic708x.u11	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Van Cauter's 19646 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic708x.u12	Madam President, Minister, on 25 January I asked you a question about the presence of ammunition in the Brussels Justice Palace and the risk that it entails, such as fire risk and even explosion risk. It is striking in this dossier that the fire safety building is actually not in order. An extensive report was prepared by the FPS Employment, Labour and Social Consultation a few years ago. I am aware that this is a complex dossier, but four years after this report has been drawn up, not much has been done about compartmentalisation in the cellars where the papers lie. Minister, I have three questions. First, what were the recommendations in this report of the FOD WASO? Secondly, what is the state of implementation of the recommendations? Thirdly, will you take measures to ensure fire safety in the Brussels Palace of Justice?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic708x.u13	Madam President, Mrs Lambrecht, you say correctly that this is a complex dossier, but many points have already been addressed. The 2014 FOD WASO report contained several infringements and recommendations that target the whole of infrastructure, the storage of which is merely a component. In order to deal with these infringements, many efforts have been made in recent years by the Government of the Buildings, the judicial services and the services of the FPS Justice Department, which are, of course, continuing. I would like to give you an overview of the most important actions carried out: adaptation work to the internal evacuation doors, installation of safety signs indicating the evacuation routes and extinguishing agents, repair of defective hydrants or hydrants, timing of safety lighting on evacuation routes, adjustment of the fire escape route along the outdoor parking and installation of an additional outside fire escape. In addition, there are ongoing projects on general warning systems and automatic fire detection in risk rooms and adaptation works to the evacuation doors on the outer shell. In addition, the Council of Ministers took the decision of principle that there should be a specific warehouse for the documents of conviction. My services are currently developing the need programme for Brussels, after which it will be transferred to the Directorate of Buildings for implementation. Pending this, the premises in the black cellar were adapted specifically for the storage of chemicals as follows: fire-resistant doors and tyres, adequate ventilation system and explosion-resistant lighting, adapted floor coating and correct signaling. The move will follow the next day. The agreements with DOVO still apply to the evacuation of ammunition. The judicial services concerned have informed me that there is a regular removal via DOVO.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic708x.u14	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic708x.u15	Minister, we have known for a long time that the justice palace in Brussels is a dangerous place to work, but I am a little reassured by your previous reply. Unfortunately, however, it is not the only building that is not in order about security. In Antwerp in the Solvijnstraat and Sanderusstraat there are warehouses where a lot of articles of conviction are archived. The fire safety of these buildings does not comply at all with the legal requirements. The fire department even calls for urgent action to be taken on its comments to safeguard both the safety of its own workers and of neighbouring countries. I'll list some defects in the buildings. Most emergency lights don't work. The electrical wiring is a disaster, because no one knows which wires are still active. The woodwork of the floors is in very poor condition, there are large holes in the floor. Many wooden beams from the roof are rotten. There's a lot of moisture, so there's a lot of fungi. That's how I can keep going. The advice of the prevention consultant of the FPS Justice Department is not to allow the building to enter until the works have been carried out. This dangerous situation has been dragging on for years without any significant intervention. Some priority works have been carried out, but despite these interventions, the buildings continue to pose a very serious threat to the safety and health of the people working there and those living around them. The site is located in the middle of a residential area and close to a gas station, which results in an extremely dangerous situation. Are you aware of the abuses in the warehouses in Solvijnstraat and Sanderusstraat? Are you planning to take measures to make the warehouses safe again or to move to another location?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic708x.u16	Mrs Lambrecht, I am aware of the situation in Antwerp. It is also for this reason that an entirely new project has been developed which foresees that the buildings in the Solvijnstraat and Sanderusstraat in Antwerp will be abandoned. Indeed, these buildings, which are made available by the Government of the Buildings, do not comply with the standards and the applicable rules for the storage of such products. Evidence of this is the inspection reports of the prevention advisor and the report of the FOD WASO. It is our strategy to bring together all the beliefs from the Antwerp district in a single central warehouse. The need programme was drawn up by my services and was approved by the Minister for the Budget after a long procedure this week. Now the file is then forwarded to the Executive Board of the Buildings, responsible for the realisation of the project. Parallel efforts are also being made to improve the efficiency of the procedure for the adoption, retention and outflow of documents by the judicial services.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic708x.u17	Minister, I know you don't like giving a second answer, but I'm going to try anyway. I hear they're going to move to a warehouse. Do you have any idea when this will happen and how much longer one will have to stay in the current premises?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic708x.u18	You know my second answer: as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic708x.u19	Mr President, Minister, a case has not been dealt with twice in the Brussels Correctional Court because there were not enough members of the Security Corps to bring the detained suspects to the courtroom. There is also great dissatisfaction in Antwerp about the operation of the security corps, which has few staff available. It is reported that the first President of the Appeals Court raised this situation with you in an e-mail. Among other things, this was a case involving 6 serious criminals requiring 7 security officers, but apparently only 10 staff were available, mainly due to illness and withdrawal of recovery days. Of those 10 staff members, part of them have a fixed assignment such as scanning at the entrance. In Antwerp, 15 delays have already been reported, linked to security personnel. What is your response to these problems, Minister? What is your response to the writing of the first chairman of the Antwerp appeal court? What solutions do you propose to counter this persistent problem, because this problem is regularly returned and is not resolved? Pending a ruling by the Constitutional Court, you could not yet start rolling out videoconferences in criminal matters. Do you guarantee that the necessary budgets will be available to start as soon as the Constitutional Court gives the green light? Which arrondissements or resorts will be your priority?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic708x.u20	Mr President, on the matter in Brussels, I can tell you that the assistance process lasted until 2 p.m. the night before. As a result, a number of people had to be replaced in the permanent team of the security corps. The security corps has 21 people for arraignments, of whom six were ill. 10 officers were needed for the assists process. Since no assistance could be provided by the federal and local police this time, the security corps did not have the capacity to bring the detainees to justice. As for the incident in Antwerp, the following. On 21 June, 11 of the 28 staff were ill and 7 were on holiday or recovery leave. The 10 attendees were all in charge of fixed posts, such as the scan street, the cell guard and the prisoner transport. The local police couldn't raise additional troops that day as she had redistributed her efforts in response to the failed terrorist attack at the Brussels-Central train station and patrolled more near stations and crowded places. That's why the hearing couldn't go on. In reply to your second question, all the points cited are known. This has already been the subject of extensive communication with the competent judicial authorities. In answer to your third question, since 1 June, 2 more staff were added in Antwerp. I understand that there are regular consultations between the security corps and the judicial services. I asked for this meeting to be organised on a permanent basis. Parliament has also discussed on several occasions the creation of the new General Security Service, which will be composed of the members of the Security Corps and several other corps of federal police and defence. The operation should therefore improve as from next year. In response to your fourth question, following a ruling by the Constitutional Court, a tendering procedure will be launched and the necessary budgets will be provided. The video installations necessary for such situations are complex and require the complete establishment of a courtroom and a prison room to comply with international standards in this area. I cannot comment on precise timing at this time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic708x.u21	I really hope, Minister, that this problem can be resolved, because it is indeed a recurring phenomenon. You talked about a lot of sick people, 11 out of 28 in Antwerp. That's a lot of them. You also said that the new information you are announcing must be improved. I hope this is true, because it is of course not good that things should be postponed because people cannot be transferred. I also hope that you will work on the video conference, which may not solve everything but will be a step in the right direction. Of course there are resources to this, I know, because infrastructure also needs to be adapted. I hope that you will take the necessary steps.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic708x.u22	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Lahaye-Battheu's 19722 is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic708x.u23	Mr Minister, according to a report by the Flemish Institute for Peace, relayed on Saturday 24 June by several Belgian newspapers, the illegal arms trade in Belgium is increasingly focusing on weapons of war. According to federal police figures, 238 cases of illegal arms businesses have been discovered since 2009. This number does not increase significantly, except unfortunately for weapons of war. These accounted for only 9% of the total in 2009, compared to 24% in 2015, according to the report. As a reminder, illegal weapons are those that individuals are not allowed to possess, such as automatic firearms, silent weapons, infrared weapons, as well as weapons chargers with a greater than normal capacity. Such weapons of war fall almost exclusively into the hands of the most dangerous criminals and terrorists. On Friday, June 23, you announced that a new amnesty period to declare illegal weapons would open from January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2019. For information, in my commune, Saint-Josse-ten-Noode, a 49-year-old man had been placed under arrest after a shooting that broke out on Saturday, May 27, following a neighbourhood dispute between the members of two families. According to the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office, an investigating judge had been charged with attempted murder, wilful assault and carrying prohibited weapons. Therefore, Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions. What lessons do you learn from the growing focus of this trade on weapons of war? What initiatives do you intend to take to combat this phenomenon more effectively? As I said, you announced an amnesty period for two years. What do you draw from the one that preceded her? Was it effective? Are there systematic prosecutions for citizens refusing to declare their weapons illegal? If so, what is the nature of the possible sanctions?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic708x.u24	Mr Kir, first of all let me make a few remarks about contextualization. According to our statistics, our police services recorded 1,667 cases of illegal firearms trade between 2009 and 2015, with an average of 238 cases per year and a peak of 294 cases in 2015. It is true that the figures show an increase in the number of findings of prohibited firearms businesses, from 18 in 2009 to 46 in 2015. The experts of the Flemish Institute for Peace who studied the figures caution, however, against hasty conclusions. In their investigation report, they point out that the statistics relate only to offences discovered by the police and that they provide an overview of the police's efforts to highlight the problem of illegal firearms, rather than the actual extent of the problem. In this regard, I drew attention last week in my reply to Mrs Lambrecht to the improvement of the research methods which Parliament has already approved during this Parliament, which, for example, makes it possible to use telephone taps and soon also Internet infiltrations, in order to detect the illegal arms trade even better. I expect that the number of such findings by the police will continue to increase in the coming years, precisely as a result of this new legislation. Your second question concerns the new and last amnesty period, which is expected to begin in early 2018. I would point out that this positive measure will in no way affect prohibited weapons. Only persons who have unauthorized possession of arms subject to authorization may use them. During previous amnesty periods, a total of more than 200,000 weapons were surrendered. I dare say that this is a success and I hope that as many weapons as possible will still emerge from illegality in the next period. Those who continue to refuse to declare their weapons should not be rewarded. The Public Prosecutor's Office obviously has a freedom of assessment in each specific case. It can even assess whether a transaction with destruction of the weapon in question is appropriate, or whether prosecution before the correctional court is necessary. I will also discuss with the College of Attorneys General what directive we could issue to tighten the approach to the illegal possession of weapons after the end of the amnesty period.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic708x.u25	I thank the minister for his complete answers and I will certainly return to him when there are developments on the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic708x.u26	Question No 19747 by Mrs Jadin is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic708x.u27	Mr. Chair, Minister, a note from your office's strategic unit has been provided to the College of Courts and Courts. It would appear that, in the near future, future magistrates may no longer be appointed to the office and the court to which they apply to the Supreme Council of Justice (CSJ), but rather within the jurisdiction of a court of appeal which would assign them to the places and functions to be filled according to the needs of the moment. Indeed, this note lays the foundation for "integrated management" at the level of appeal courts. It aims to optimize the human resources available to the judiciary. Under this scheme, judges appointed to a court of appeal would then be despecialized and thus liable to try criminal cases one day, through the family court to decide divorces on another day or through seizures. In addition, judges would be appointed for varying periods of time, at the seat of the court in need of them. And that's not all! This project also dissociates the concrete burden of a magistrate from his office. In other words, a magistrate of the rank of adviser to the Court of Appeal could therefore continue to sit at first instance, even if he commuted with a seat to the Court of Appeal, according to the needs of the organization. Its promotion could also be just a wage promotion. Minister, if the judiciary is to be upgraded, let me tell you that this is not the way you will achieve it and that you are going to reduce the shortage of applicants. Recently, newspapers have been concerned, like the Supreme Council of Justice, about the decrease in the number of applicants compared to the number of places open or to be filled in the near future. In fact, the College of Courts and Courts even thought that this project had been abandoned. According to them, there have been semblances of negotiations – and they insist on the term "like" – while there already existed in your head, it seems, a hidden agenda. Currently, your firm refuses to comment on an internal note that is not yet a project. Yet, in the last week of June, you came in person to defend this note before the Supreme Council of Justice. Minister, let me ask you the following questions. Could you explain your plan for this note? Is it still to be negotiated or discussed or will you submit a preliminary draft directly to the Council of Ministers and possibly to the Council of State? Will you take into account any comments you may have received from the College of Courts and the Superior Council of Justice? Do you not think that the shortage of applicants will increase with this project, especially when we see that the magistrates will be despecialized, which goes a little against what currently exists. The latter will have to commute between the different courts, courts, etc. As the Supreme Council of Justice points out, is this not likely to create problems of constitutionality, since the latter ensures the independence of the judiciary?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic708x.u28	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Massin, you are referring to a confidential note sent to the College as part of the discussions on self-management with this College. In other words, the note is a simple working document in progress which still needs to be adapted and discussed. You will understand, therefore, that I am not commenting on an internal document. In any case, unless I am suffering from amnesia, I can assure you that I did not defend this note personally or by anyone present before the Supreme Council of Justice. In any event, the manner in which the note is presented in the press does not reflect his letter or his spirit. It is not at all correct that a judge would sit in another court every day or that he or she should commute between the court and the court. I think we know all the five-year periods for which the investigating judges are currently appointed. So, in my head, there has never been anything but potential and marginal flexibility after five years. I do not know where the idea of organised mobility would come from on a daily basis. The dissociation of the function's load would probably lead to a change of mentality. But I am convinced that it will also help to optimize the functioning of the organization. The reflection continues, of course. I regret this indiscretion. Once again, I can't help it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic708x.u29	Mr. Chairman, Mr.Minister, thank you for your answers, which I am a little frustrated with. I can understand you. Imagine if there were no more indiscretions, I may not have any more questions to ask you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic708x.u30	I didn't blame you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic708x.u31	I understand that. But don't start hunting inside your office to find out who unfortunately left one or the other document behind after a meeting. Beyond that, I can hear your explanations, Minister. Guarantees can indeed be provided in the context of this despecialisation. It is true that one may wonder why not despecialize some magistrates. As you know, since, as a lawyer, you have been a court practitioner for a long time, there are functions that are particularly difficult to despecialize. You alluded to the role of investigating judge. For my part, when I was going to plead regularly before the seizure judge, I always thought that to be a judge of seizures, one must have a particularly "special" mind, not to say anything else, given the complexity of the legislation. By despecializing, we would risk losing expertise in some areas. We need to pay particular attention to this. We must also pay attention to the psychological burden that may result from too much mobility of judges. This could be understood in the case of a relatively concentrated Brussels court, which falls under the jurisdiction of the Brussels Court of Appeal. But imagine – Mr Goffin will not deny it – the case of the Court of Appeal of Liège, whose territory is the largest. If you tell a magistrate who is in Arlon that he will ensure a despecialization, even in Namur, imagine the difficulty he will be confronted with in terms of transport, as well as the psychological burden that this may entail. I heard it's a strictly confidential and internal project. I have no doubt for a second that you're going to have to work on it again. These are two things that I wanted to draw your attention to, if only to go in the right direction. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic708x.u32	Mr President, this is changing questions about Mr Massin's "favourable winds". Minister, on 24 May last in plenary session, by your law changing the procedures for changing names and genders for transgender people, a law for which I thank you again, you were bringing Belgium among the most progressive countries in the world. You know how expensive this problem is. The next step is to change attitudes in society. Everyone should be able to accept that people who feel compelled to live in a body that does not wear the right sex go so far as to start a transition that can lead to a sexual reassignment operation. I was recently arrested by a lady who finished her career. She's waiting for her new civil status identity. This person is currently on trial in the Family Court. Although, obviously, his physique no longer bears any memory of his masculinity, both the magistrates and the opposing party have ceased to appoint her according to his former genre by calling him "monsieur". Of course, this person did not violate any law, since this lady's identity card still informs her of the male type. However, she felt denied by what she felt as a lack of respect for what she is in reality, that is, a woman. In addition, it is officially moving towards this goal. If one adds to this all the stress that one can feel in a family court, this lady has experienced a deep trauma that she is slow to heal. Minister, do you think there is a possibility that Kingdom magistrates can be sensitized to avoid such situations? The law is new, so I can understand that this awareness has not yet been achieved. What are the means (circular, directive) that you could use for this purpose? Do you think that an explanatory circular or directive will suffice? Could you also recall the mission of the reference magistrates?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic708x.u33	Mr Flahaux, according to the new article 62bis, § 5 of the Civil Code, the civil registry officer drafts the act of modifying the registration of sex in the civil registry if the King's prosecutor has not issued a negative opinion. In this case, the act is entered in the civil register. It is at the time of this entry that the act produces its effects. In the event of a refusal to act on the change in the registration of sex, an appeal may be brought before the Family Court, in accordance with article 1385 of the Judicial Code. In this case, the act cannot be entered in the civil registry and be effective until the court decision on the change in sex registration has become final. Therefore, the person changes sex during the proceedings before the family court and this must be considered as such by the magistrates. However, I am aware of the suffering that may be experienced by persons who may have already undergone interventions to change their sex, although this change has not yet taken place legally because of procedures that suspend the registration of the act of amendment of the sex registration in the civil registry. I cannot issue instructions to magistrates by circular because of the principle of separation of powers. I would remind you, however, that the Supreme Council of Justice has drafted a guide for magistrates in order to recall the different principles governing their functions. This guide specifies, with regard to the probity of the magistrate, that it leads the magistrate to prohibit not only all conduct punishable by law but also all indelicate conduct. Similarly, according to the same guide, the magistrate must show humanity, a humanity that manifests itself in respect for individuals and their dignity in all the circumstances of his professional and private life. The magistrate shows respect in his relations with the litigants but also towards those who make up his professional environment such as lawyers, administrative staff, etc. On the other hand, my administration is in the process of drafting a circular for registrars to inform them about the scope of the new reform. To this end, my administration will examine the most appropriate means to bring this procedure into line with the right to privacy and human dignity.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic708x.u34	Minister, I am satisfied with your answer. I would tend to say that if all the magistrates were like you, there would obviously be no problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic708x.u35	Question No 19756 by Mr Calomne is postponed. Questions Nos 19765 and 19445 by Mrs Jadin are transformed into written questions. We have no news from Mrs Lalieux; her question No. 19630 is therefore considered withdrawn. The same applies to Question No 19701 by Mr Degroote.
