ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic785x.u1	Mr.President, Minister, the federal government decided, during the July 26, 2017 agreement on Budget 2018, to stop the appointment of statutory officers in the federal public service. This decision, which is probably based primarily on the budget, ignores the very essence of the statute within the public service, namely a guarantee of continuity of public service and the independence of civil servants. The result of the measure will certainly be to encourage the contracting of functions, which will have the corollary of increased politicization. We are far from the principle of good governance, which should be the thread of all political actors, including your government. It can also be inferred from this measure that the use of the Selor will certainly be less in terms of the verification of the qualifications of the candidates in the civil service. My party believes that priority should be given to the successful candidates of the examinations organised by the Selor, paid into the recruitment reserves because, in general, contractual recruitment interferes with the final subsequent recruitment if the contractual agent is awarded an examination. For us, the status must remain the rule and the contract, the exception. However, the effect of this decision will be a reversal of this paradigm. Finally, I would like to point out that the measure driven by budgetary imperatives can generate a lack of revenue, moreover, since the Federal Pension Service (public servants' pensions) risks being deprived of the 7.5% of the contributions paid by statutory officials, while the contractors pay their share directly to the ONSS. Minister, when will this freeze of appointments take place and for which FPS? What is the amount of savings generated? What will the role of the Selor be in the future, in terms of competency verification? Have any estimates of the above-mentioned loss of contributions to support public pensions already been calculated? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic785x.u2	Mr President, Mrs Caprasse, the summer agreement provides for the adaptation of the legislation to give priority to contractors for the recruitment of new staff in the public sector, in order to make the administration more efficient and flexible. This measure should be considered to be included in the structural reforms that this government is undertaking and not in the preparation of the 2018 budget. I would like to make it clear that the final appointment will not be abolished, but will be reserved for the regal functions. A study is being carried out to determine the whole range of sovereign functions which require, through the exercise of their functions, a status which guarantees the interests of the State and of the civil servant. As for Selor, it has recently been integrated into the Strategy and Support FPS (BOSA). The selection and engagement of statutory or contractual staff will, as is already the case, have to meet objective criteria. The Director General of Recruitment will ensure the independence and objectivity of the selections. For each selection or examination, the same level of quality, the same approach and methodology will be systematically used to verify competencies. With respect to your fourth question, both the ONSS and the Federal Pension Service are an integral part of the public service and, in particular, entity 1. Therefore, there is no loss of contributions within entity 1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic785x.u3	Minister, thank you. You say that appointments are not deleted but only for regal functions. That's probably what's going to be a problem. We will review the consequences of your decisions and come back to the issue in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic785x.u4	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Fonck's 22272 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic785x.u5	Minister, I apologise for the delay, but I am glad that you are still here to reflect on what was once an important project and has now become invisible in the budgetary tables, in the policy. During the previous budgetary exercises, redesign was a fixed agreement in the Court of Auditors' analysis, but this year there was not much to write about it because there was not much to know about it. I also had an exchange of views with Minister Jambon on his policy paper on the Directorate of Buildings, which still contains the remainder of the redesign exercise. All in all, it seems pretty thin to me. Especially for a government that says it wants to work on expenditure, it seems to me to be a constructive, reasoned and structural exercise about the organisation of our government. Now it's a bit of a guess about the state of affairs, where it went wrong and what's still on the shelf. That is why I have a number of questions for you, Minister. The political direction remains unclear to me. Who's qualified for what? How many pilots are there anyway? Is there anyone else at the wheel at all? What is the status of this project? That may be oral, but perhaps a written report can also be shared? You don't have to explain everything. Can you give an overview of the budgetary return in 2015 and 2016 of this operation? What efficiency gains do you expect in 2017 thanks to the redesign exercise? What are the plans for 2018? I realise that these are rather general questions, but it is difficult to ask more specific questions about something that I do not think is particularly concrete for the time being.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic785x.u6	As has been said repeatedly, each minister is responsible for his or her own course of redesign. As you know, I am responsible for Route 1 and Route 6. My answer will therefore only relate to my own routes. Trajectories 1 concern centrally coordinated federal purchases. By implementing that route in 2017, the FPS and the PPS will now systematically give priority to common contracts for the purchase of supplies and services. The process starts from an overview of needs, taking into account strategic projects over a five-year period. The final multi-annual needs plans of all vertical entities shall as such be centralised, consolidated and analysed with a view to discovering common opportunities. The decisions are taken in the monthly strategic federal purchasing consultation, in which the delegates of the FPS and the PPS are present. The common tasks shall be carried out in the Tactical Operational Purchase Consultation. For 2018, about a dozen new joint procurement projects are in the scaffolding. The new purchasing model should, in principle, allow voluntary collective purchases to save at least EUR 250 000 in 2017. That goal was largely achieved and even exceeded, because ultimately, EUR 380 000 was saved on business trips, hybrid cars and paper. Trajector 6, the second stage for which I am responsible, aims to rewrite the supporting processes in the federal public office with a view to an optimal service at a lower cost. This will better support the vertical departments so that they can focus more efficiently on their own core tasks. As you know, a new horizontal entity was established on 1 March 2017, namely the Federal Public Service Policy and Support, which included three existing horizontal FPS, in particular the FOD P&O, the FOD B&B and Fedict, and the Empreva service. The necessary decisions on the internal functioning of the new FPS have been adopted by the Council of Ministers and have been published. The new FPS will do it with 10 percent fewer staff appropriations and with eight staff or managers less. The initial number of redesign sections has now been expanded from six to eight. The digital transformation of the government and the operational excellence of the various study services were added. For a state of affairs on the other routes, the best thing to do is to address the ministers concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic785x.u7	Mr Minister, I have two observations to make. Coordination remains clearly a pain. You say you're qualified for Route 1 and Route 6. For the rest, you do not suspect any unimportant nuance in the parliamentary debate that I should be with the other ministers. I initially asked the Prime Minister this question. If it is a project involving several ministers, it is up to the Prime Minister to have an overview and to share that information with me. So I'm being strengthened in the idea that there's no one in the cockpit. In fact, I find it very difficult to understand that the Prime Minister withdraws completely from something that was once an important project of the whole government and that you confine yourself in your reply to two routes. Secondly, you are talking about a concrete figure of EUR 380 000 in savings. I am not a savings fetishist, but EUR 380 000 for something that has been announced as the great spending exercise is, in my opinion, quite an asset in terms of efficiency gains.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic785x.u8	If you don't mind, Mr. Calvo. I'm not a savings fetishist either. I simply want us to be careful with the resources that are allocated to us by the Belgian people. I have indicated that the FOD BOSA will do it by 10% less for staff appropriations and that eight administrative policy functions will disappear. We have chosen a route that is supported by the services themselves, otherwise it will certainly not succeed. If I refer to the growth from 250 to 380, this means that growth will have to take place in the years to come. If you've ever given any thought to what the federal government or federal government is, you know that the first and greatest challenge is to get everyone on board. We are talking about a cultural change, open to opportunities so that we can focus on the core tasks. This is not clear at all, but we are nevertheless successful. I have already indicated in other discussions what the growth potential is. You can read the parliamentary documents on this. Redesign is mainly based on a different way of dealing with the resources that are made available to us. Unfortunately, it is also a long-term work. We won't be able to tell you overnight that we're gonna do half of it. That's not realistic either. The fact is that, in preparing this whole story, we found that, when we started with the federal government, there was no possibility of even seeing which contracts were dealt with where within that federal government. That work had to be done manually. We have noted that 80% of the purchases that take place represent a value of less than EUR 80 000. This means that people are trying to comply with all kinds of legislation in all departments. Hopefully, they'll be able to do the same. A lot of energy is lost with projects that are essentially too small. We had to create a framework for this, no matter what happened in the meantime. Yesterday morning I allocated the additional staff appropriations for centralising or at least monitoring the purchases. The principle is that the best buyer can buy for the rest. Where we are making a joint purchase today that does not even reach five percent of the total amount of contracts concluded by the federal government, we should be able to go to 20 percent or 25 percent in the long term. If, as a rule of thumb, we say that we can achieve a 10% saving on that, then that is pretty much in the millions. That is the potential of this project. However, this project must be given the opportunity to succeed and it can only succeed if it is supported and supported in intercultural terms.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic785x.u9	Mr Minister, I am anything but disturbed by your last intervention. You talked about graduality, acceptance and a very inclusive way of working, as well as investing time, resources and energy to achieve results later. I can perfectly imagine. However, for me this is at odds with a discourse that is sometimes heard elsewhere in your government and in your own party. In addition, it seems as if spending can be made up of millions and billions with a fingernip. [[Mr Calvo flashes fingers]] Those two things are connected because those statements sometimes result in less support for a track like redesign. I can only ask you to express your pragmatic, sober, not so strange approach in your own party, in your party management and in the Council of Ministers. This will only improve the willingness to reform in the public sector. I believe that a more politically coordinated approach, a clear pilot and a great political commitment from you or from anyone else to the whole of the redesign could strengthen and speed up the process and turn it into an exciting story. In the public sector, too, a lot of people are waiting for politicians to stand up for them today and tell them that a lot of things are being done well, that they are trying to get things right and that they want to be a partner in it. That is one of the other shortcomings of the redesign process. Furthermore, I can only encourage you not to follow in the footsteps of your predecessor in the next legislature and not to write foolish essays. I want to finish with that happy note.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic785x.u10	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Maingain has converted 21247 into a written question. Mr Gilkinet and Mr Vercamer are not here and have not been heard from. Their questions 20943 and 22534 are therefore considered to be repealed, in accordance with Article 127, 10 of the Rules of Procedure.
