ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, since yesterday the vote on the motion requesting the presence of the Prime Minister remained ineffective, we should now proceed strictly to the vote. In the meantime, the Prime Minister is here. The motion therefore no longer serves any purpose and I therefore propose to begin with the oral questions addressed to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u3	Prime Minister, the energy transition needs courageous women and politicians. It also needs clear messages and signals. Two regional governments agreed on the Energy Pact. This morning, your government refused to do so! This message, this signal, this refusal is catastrophic. Prime Minister, yesterday you said you wouldn't let anyone torpedo the Energy Pact. Indeed, you didn't let anyone torpedo the Energy Pact, you torpedoed it yourself! Prime Minister, no one is fooled, either here or outside, whether they are observers, citizens or actors in the energy transition. The need for encryption that is now mentioned is an excuse, a screen that hides very badly, very difficult the fact that you have folded to the diktat of the N-VA. At the same time, you sealed the fate of Minister Marghem. You sealed the disavowal of his action. No, Madam Minister, it is not either N-VA parliamentarian who opposes your pact, it is your colleague, the N-VA leader in the government, who blocked the project. They are not isolated parliamentarians, they are a formation within your majority. Prime Minister, you can hear it, I am bitter, I am angry because this Energy Pact was within your reach. My only question will be whether you are aware of your responsibility for this failure, whether you are aware of the catastrophic signal that you are sending to the actors in the energy transition.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u4	Mr Prime Minister, the only real question here is the credibility of your government, whose members are, for the time being, not very numerous in this House. What is the value of a Prime Minister's speech in our country? Your majority agreement states that "all power plants will close in 2025". Recently, in front of this Assembly, you yourself recalled it in your speech on the state of the Union. Yesterday, in a press release that was meant to be manly, but also very ambiguous, Prime Minister, you pretended to show the fangs by saying that you would not let anyone torpedo the Energy Pact. The N-VA – which is absent in this assembly, in any case, its ministers – was obviously not impressed at all by your little authoritarian exit. Nationalist MPs – starting with Mr Wollants, whose RTL interview I heard – continued to say that he was out of the question of getting out of nuclear power in 2025. Again this morning, your main Deputy Prime Minister said exactly the same thing: "It is impossible to get out of nuclear power." In other words, Prime Minister, they've put their feet on your majority agreement. They made you rattle your word, so your government is slammed. Of course, it is Bart De Wever and his vice-prime ministers who are the employers' federations who have whistled at the end of the recreation, the slogan being: "Everything about nuclear power, whose business must continue in Belgium." I come to the question of encryption. Prime Minister, we held hearings this Tuesday on the Energy Pact. Elia, the CREG, the Plan Bureau have come. The latter even gave figures, believing that it was possible to get out of nuclear power. So don't tell us we need to encrypt this program! He already is. Simply, you are unable to enforce your government agreement and your word on your own team. Once again, Prime Minister, it is the N-VA that makes the law in your government. And who will have to pay, Prime Minister? These are all the energy players, in particular our citizens, in terms of the environment and safety. I have only one question for you, Prime Minister. When will you finally respect your government agreement and keep your own word promising the closure of all nuclear power plants in 2025?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u5	Mr President, Prime Minister, two days ago, you were in Paris to respond to the call of the President of the French Republic, who said: "We are losing the battle against global warming." But a party in Belgium contributes to this fatal outcome, it is the N-VA. What is the meaning of being in Paris when, in Brussels, you are not in a position to master the government mix to respond to the call of those who consider it time to give the firm, definitive and certain signal of a commitment to an ambitious energy pact? For months, we interviewed the minister. She told us: "Don't worry. We'll get it in time!" We still had to wait. We even went to international conferences without being able to make a lot of commitments. Finally, there are four governments involved in this document. Today, a government is dragging its feet, it is yours, under the influence of the N-VA. Let us no longer be told that studies are needed to determine whether the exit from nuclear power is realistic or not! Even today, the press reports on the study of the think tank Itinera which shows that the release in 2025 is realistic with political will. With political will! The debate is no longer that of studies. It is that of political choice and will. Then, you can still try to delay but continue to delay, it is finally giving the signal that you do not want to embark on the sure path of renewable energies by giving the signal to the economic community that this choice is irreversible, necessary and indispensable in the very short term. Any moment lost will be a time that will delay the victory over global warming. So stop running international conferences! Take responsibility in your country!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u6	Prime Minister, last weekend it became clear that we have an Energy Pact. Unfortunately, today we have to express this in the past: we had an Energy Pact. That's thanks to you, but mostly thanks to one party in your coalition. One party in your coalition manages to change your mind. You're gonna have to explain that to me. Prime Minister, you are suddenly questioning the feasibility of the core exit. However, you stated here almost week after week that you are going for the core exit in 2025. Suddenly you doubt that, because the N-VA does not yet want that nuclear exit. Not only are you silenced, we see today that no other majority party dares to speak here. You doubt your own coalition agreement, but above all you also doubt the efforts of your own Energy Minister. That is really unacceptable. You cannot take a picture alongside President Macron and declare that you are pursuing climate objectives and energy transition, when you are failing to take even one step in that direction in your own country. Prime Minister, will you step out of the coalition agreement? I'm wrong, but what the heart is full of. It's a first question. [[Hilarity]] Secondly, will you implement the coalition agreement and effectively implement the core exit by 2025? Will you support your Minister for Energy? Yesterday you tweeted from Paris: "Tous en march pour le climat. Yes, we can." Today you should actually tweet: "Tous en arrière pour le climat. No, we can't".
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u7	Prime Minister, when we care about the safety of our people, we realize that we must not continue to produce electricity in completely obsolete nuclear power plants. The risk to security is enormous. It's immeasurable. No one in this country wants to continue with plants with micro-cracks of 18 centimetres. No one, except the FEB, ENGIE Electrabel and their towel rack, the N-VA. Four ministers decided on the deadline of 2025 and one mayor, the mayor of Antwerp, blocked the decision. You, Prime Minister, are going to bed! The majority agreement is very clear. But again, Prime Minister, you're going to bed! There is also the question of the cost of this energy transition. The pact exempts large industry - once again, the big industry - and returns the carbon tax to households. Prime Minister, do you confirm compliance with the government agreement that plans to exit nuclear power in 2025? Are you only sleeping in December or are you still going to bed in January? What steps will you take to achieve this? As far as costs are concerned, do you confirm that the large industry will be out of reach, that the costs will be borne by households and that this carbon tax will cost 270 euros per household if the prices recommended by the European Union are applied?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u8	Prime Minister, until the key exit was decided in 2003, still under Verhofstadt I. The closure of the power stations was planned for 2015, but the whole file ended up in the freezer together with the Community file and the budget balance. A few days ago we were able to hear about an Energy Pact; yesterday we heard that it was a vision paper and what it is today, I do not know, I ask you. I notice that there are cracks in a number of nuclear power stations, while there is a serious crack in your government, Prime Minister. It's so big, you didn't even risk coming to the Chamber yesterday to explain. You have gathered a meeting of the nuclear cabinet. What did we see? Selfies, interviews and a press release. In it, you say you're not going to let anyone torpedo the Energy Pact. But what Energy Pact? When I look at the Energy Pact, I see words, words, words. What I see very little is numbers. A problem is, of course, the chaotic division of powers. The Federal Government is responsible for the exit, but all compensatory measures must come from the Regions. Energy consumption, green energy, that kind of thing belongs to the Regions. If we have to dismantle gas installations, it will cost a lot of money. The Flemings don't want Tommeltol after the Turteltaks. That is why we believe that the Energy Pact should be seriously considered. For us, first of all, it must be affordable, and secondly, there must be security of supply and, very importantly, self-sufficiency. What is your view, Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, 1975 is the birth year of our Prime Minister. 1975 is also the year in which Objective 1, Objective 2 and Tihange 1 were launched. Today we can say from the Prime Minister that he is Prime Minister at a relatively young age, for a nuclear power plant that actually means that she is very old. I had to be born myself then. I was "less than 12 years" then. Meanwhile, a lot has changed in the world. In their own countries, too, there is incredible support for the people and, in fact, for the political world to finally achieve the breakthrough towards renewable energy. Almost 85% of our country's citizens say it's time for more climate action. This may also have to do with the fact that in recent years there have been a lot of problems with the old nuclear power stations. Just think about the cracks and the problems with the nuclear waste. In fact, nuclear power plants only work part-time more. Very often they have problems. The arguments are there, the studies are there to finally opt for a breakthrough in renewable energy and for a core exit. Purple-green was a pioneer in that field. Today, post Fukushima after the breakthrough of renewable energy is a core step the obvious itself, Prime Minister. You were half on the selfie with Macron at a climate summit. If you want to be a climate country, you can actually do only one thing, and that's the key decision. You must give the green light to the text of the new Energy Pact. Listen to your Minister Marghem for once! For once you must follow them! That way you can follow up on Bart Tommelein's plea. Mr Van Quickenborne, I find it sad that Open Vld and the CD&V have the debate monopolized by the N-VA, the Nuclear Flemish Alliance, in the hemisphere today. They are the best ambassador of those other monopolists, ENGIE and Electrabel. Prime Minister, show that you are a prime minister of our time. Show me you're a young, modern prime minister. Show that you deserve to be on the picture of a climate summit and decide, like the Brussels Government, here and now that the text of the Energy Pact is no longer being negotiated and we as Belgium take the lead. That's what I expect from you today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u10	Mr. Chair, Prime Minister, after the material before us, the finding is clear, namely, the inability to make a decision. This is obviously a fundamental element of the current situation. In 2014, the government agreement was clear. To date, you have lost three years for the country, three years for the citizens, three years for the climate, three years for the environment. I note that there is still no decision and that you step back when the problem arises. Your Deputy Prime Minister is now going backwards, torpedoing your own trial decision. It has a cost, Prime Minister. With the passing of time and perhaps a hidden agenda, we are faced with an implicit decision to extend nuclear power in the worst possible conditions. What is happening today is no less than a slamming of citizens, businesses, the environment and the climate. A few months ago, Prime Minister, we asked you to take over the matter under your Minister of Energy's jurisdiction. It didn't have any effect. The decision has become impossible today because of the decision made by one of your partners. Prime Minister, I would like you to reconfirm before us your agreement on the release of nuclear power in 2025. It is indeed urgent to act and to stop procrastination. The energy transition is currently stopped as you travel to Paris or elsewhere to make its importance known. I'm looking for coherence. We urge you to make every effort to advance a sustainable, sustainable energy transition at an acceptable price for businesses and citizens. I would like to know if this is still part of your plans and how you are going to do it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all a first remark in reaction to the last speaker and others. I remember, three years ago, during the debates in the framework of the government agreement, harsh, violent and virulent criticisms of the opposition about our energy strategy. I am pleased to see today that many in the opposition are encouraging us to implement this government agreement. So it is a development that we are pleased to see! Mr President, I agree with the analysis that the Energy Pact is obviously a serious subject, a fundamental subject, a substantial subject and, I believe, is not suitable for approximations, for counter-truths or for one or the other simplistic. I will therefore try to respond to the legitimate, democratic questions addressed by Parliament with the seriousness that suits a subject such as this one. Contrary to what I have heard, a decision has been taken by the government which reflects the government agreement and which has been voted by Parliament. The decision was made. It foresees the release of nuclear power in 2025. I maintain this goal with determination! [[Applause on the benches of the majority]] In this context, because we are serious people, we are indeed going, in the Energy Pact and as the government agreement provides, to translate the ability to achieve the objectives. Some have experience here. Some have been sitting in this assembly for a long time. In 2003, we adopted the first legislation to get out of nuclear energy. For the first time, thanks to the work undertaken by the Energy Ministers in recent weeks and months, we have a document which, in our view, is not yet finalized but which is a solid basis for us to continue working on four objectives which are contained in the government agreement, four objectives which, I hope and believe, are widely shared beyond the differences between the majority and the opposition. What are our four main objectives? Firstly, with a very strong commitment, we will continue to work on security of supply. That's not a detail for us. That is absolutely not a detail. We want to be sure that supplies are and will remain a reality. That is a question of responsibility. Secondly, and this is not a detail, we will be aware of the effects of our Energy Pact on prices for families and businesses, on competitiveness and job creation. That's not a detail either. Thirdly, of course we will also be aware of safety. In fact, that was a remark made by some members of the opposition. Infrastructure security is obviously very important. Fourth point: mobilisation is needed around climate commitments, in which the European Union and Belgium intend to play their full role at the international level. I want to be very bright and open, with the necessary nuances. These are four important principles, but it is correct that there is not necessarily a spontaneous convergence between the four principles. It must be the intention of governments, I hope, with the support of parliaments, to make the right choices and make the right decisions there. Yes, I assert it, I assume it and claim it! We consider it necessary, as governments that have already made progress on this pact also consider, to work with federated entities as well as economic actors and civil society to ensure that the financial projections for each of the four principles are reflected in a way that accurately measures all the consequences. Mr Nollet, I am very kind and kind to you, and I highly value you. But when you ask me what is the point of encrypting an energy pact, I understand that in the past, when it comes to photovoltaics in Wallonia, we preferred not to encrypt it with, therefore, an invoice for the citizens. Mr President, I would like to speak on one last extremely important point because I want to be serious. Over the last three years, we have worked hard on the climate agreements and on the transition in our energy policy. I give you an overview of this in a few points because I feel it is necessary to refresh the memories. First point: we have made substantial decisions, thanks to the minister concerned, on support for offshore wind. This is the equivalent in 2020 of two nuclear power plants thanks to our decisions, while reducing the impact on consumer bills compared to the model you validated under previous governments. Second point: interconnections. A few weeks ago, we inaugurated very important infrastructure in Zeebrugge to strengthen our capacity to deal tomorrow and the day after, in the Energy Pact, with this need for a regional European energy dimension. Third element on which no word has been said and I regret it: I am proud to have been in Paris announcing on behalf of the whole government, of all parties, that we will be the second country in Europe that will issue green bonds for €5 billion in investment in clean transport, renewable energy and energy efficiency in 2018. These are facts and results! Mr President, as you have understood, we are not impressed by the weakness of the arguments we heard at noon. We will continue our work seriously, with determination, and I am making the commitment that in 2018 there will be a credible energy pact that will ensure the conviction that we are carrying with you: meeting the four objectives I have set and ensuring that we are up to the meeting for the generations that will follow us. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u12	Mr President, I see that the photovoltaic point is reached very quickly. If it does her good, if it allows her to have fun, why not? More seriously, Prime Minister, when you recall the need for security of supply, short-term security, cost impact analysis, analysis of the necessary climate efforts, do you think for a moment that the four energy ministers who signed the pact did not take these elements into account? Do you think that Mr Cricke, Mrs Marghem and Mr Tommelein have nothing to do with this? I listened to their comments a few days ago that it is a pact that is finalized. Do you think these four do not matter to them? Let's be serious! You know very well what you're doing: you're trying to save time. But in doing so, you are training Belgium in an extension of nuclear power. Prime Minister, look at the number of Members of this House who are ready to confirm with you the end of nuclear power. You remove this group (the N-VA) and take into consideration the vast majority of this assembly, you can then be determined for the release of nuclear power in 2025.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u13	Mr. Michel... [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u14	I think the N-VA never called Mr. Di Rupo, "Mr. Prime Minister."
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u15	When asked to show respect for a Prime Minister, the Prime Minister must be respected by his government and all partners in the majority must respect his words. That's not what you do. And if I say "Mr Michel," it's because the N-VA doesn't treat him as Prime Minister. When the Prime Minister tells us about the bill for households, he makes fun of us. The first decision on electricity, energy, was to increase VAT for all households from 6 % to 21 %. That is what you have done so far for households, Prime Minister. So you were there and you were strong. But you are not here when it comes to ensuring the safety of the population in the face of nuclear risk. You're not here because the N-VA doesn't want it. You're not here when it comes to saying "no" to the N-VA. You are not here when it comes to reducing the overflight of Brussels. You're not here to drive the RER in the south of the country. Prime Minister, the public is tired of your repeated inability to enforce a government agreement, an agreement validated by four ministers, including an MR Minister, Mr.Crocke. This agreement did not need to be encrypted to pass it this morning on the government table. Prime Minister, your words failed to hide the silence of the N-VA when you spoke of the release of nuclear power in 2025.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u16	Prime Minister, this Energy Pact is not a basis for negotiation, it is the outcome. Or tell us that the mandate given by your government to Mrs. Marghem today is disavowed and that the minister, in short, would have only ruined her work. One more! Let us be told very clearly once and for all whether the government approves the Energy Pact as it stands, as concluded between the four ministers. This is the only course of action that can bring together all the governments of that country. If you need support to approve this pact in this House, I will table a motion for a resolution calling on all political parties to assume their responsibilities and to say here whether they publicly endorse the Energy Pact as it stands, without amending it, without calling it into question and without weakening the guideline that supports it. That is the real choice, it is no longer necessary to negotiate, it must be applied!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u17	Mr President, Prime Minister, I am not surprised that you did not answer my first question, but I am surprised that you did not answer the other questions either. So we still do not know what will happen to the Energy Pact. You say the government has four more important cases to investigate. Prime Minister, security of supply, security, price and climate objectives are, of course, included in the Energy Pact. Those are the starting points. And that we do not applaud, ladies and gentlemen, is because these things are obvious to us. But to you, Prime Minister, they are not. That's the problem. Now the N-VA has come to state that the cost to families must be taken into account. Colleagues of the N-VA, do you know that your government has increased the cost of the energy bill for families by an average of EUR 350? [[Rumor]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u18	Colleagues, let Mrs. Temmerman speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u19	It concerns the increase in VAT from 6% to 21%. Do you also know, ladies and gentlemen, that today 80 000 families need payment plans because they suffer from energy poverty? (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u20	No, that's because of current government. The previous government didn't do that. Ladies and gentlemen, you say that the government does not want to forward the invoice to future generations. Well, then what do you do with the defense budget? What do you do with the purchase of the planes? And what are you doing with the tax shift, which has still not been funded? That invoice of 7 billion euros will be sent to you. Prime Minister, you have now failed. I really hope that you will convince your Minister today and that the Energy Pact will be approved.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u21	Thank you, Mrs Temmerman.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u22	Mr President, I have been interrupted many times. [[Disabling microphone]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u23	Mr President, I am waiting for my colleagues to calm down, because they are a little agitated...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, let us listen to Mr. Van Hees!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u25	Prime Minister, I have found a barometer that is effective enough to know whether you are telling the truth or not. When the N-VA doesn't applaud, it's because you say you're wrong. When you say we're going out of nuclear power in 2025, she doesn't applaud. So that's not true. On the other hand, when you set four conditions as a pretext for not getting out of nuclear power, she applauds – so, I believe you, Prime Minister. You are right in saying that, since 2003, no government has made any serious progress in the energy transition. However, the closer we get to the deadline, the more dramatic it is not to act. For the past three years, however, this government has not undertaken anything in this direction. And now you set the conditions for persisting in not acting and thus wasting more time. This is called the policy of fait accompli. In fact, you don't want to get out of nuclear power in 2025. You've already hit us under this legislature, delaying the deadline. Clearly, the problem will resurface under this one. You're asking the question of the cost to households, but you're not answering the one I asked. Indeed, the Energy Pact exempts large-scale industry. This means that all costs will be borne by households. So, it's already programmed, in accordance with your government's usual practice. In this regard, I quote a recent survey. This shows that 85% of Belgians view climate change as a problem that requires an urgent response. When asked who is responsible, 91% of them designate the big industry, the one you exonerate to make people pay better.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u26	Prime Minister, all we can see is that federalism of cooperation with fragmented powers is simply not working. One of your Deputy Prime Ministers is now in favour of re-federalisation, but if I see that after three years there is still no quantified agreement within the federal government, then I still have my doubts about re-federalisation. After all, you are concluding a summer agreement, Prime Minister, which even allows you to get to the point where it leads to winter fun. If that is to be an efficient decision, then I am holding my heart for the further development of the Energy Pact. I see something else, Prime Minister. You're pulling another file towards you as Prime Minister. You have to play the lightning rod again. I actually feel sorry for you, because all the hard cases you take to heart, you can solve them. Actually, you should have started a government with you alone. That would have led to a little less spending. Minister Marghem, we know you like to polarize. The result is that there are no figures yet. That is why, of course, you are also welcome to be called Madame 100 000 volts. We hope that you will come up with a quantified and detailed plan, because we do not want it to lead to another Tommeltol on top of it for the Flemings. So please let it be affordable for our citizens and do not let the light go out.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u27	Mr President, Prime Minister, I do not understand you very well. My question to you today was to be a great Prime Minister, a modern Prime Minister, a prime minister of today. I'm telling you openly, you totally missed that opportunity. Colleagues, we are talking about a pact on our energy future, a pact for which we should preferably work together across party boundaries, majority and opposition. What are you doing, Prime Minister? You attack the opposition all the time, when it should be a project in which we work together. If you had talked to Bart De Wever as much as the opposition, the nuclear power stations might have been closed for a long time. You also missed the opportunity to support your energy ministers. Your Walloon energy minister, from MR signature, your federal energy minister, from MR signature, and the Flemish energy minister. They have been sitting around the table for the past few months, although far too slow, and have delivered something. It is not a starting point for the discussion, but this is how pacts normally work; a pact is not a beginning but an end, the settlement of a discussion. You didn't do that today, and that's a missed opportunity. There's a third missed opportunity. Look around, from here to there, and you see a huge social and political majority in favour of the core exit. You should have taken that chance. The N-VA has no absolute majority. If they are so crazy to dream of nuclear power stations until 2065, let them do so, let them live in the past. Let us decide, ladies and gentlemen, to close the power stations by 2025. Prime Minister, there is an incredible opportunity there. We are a partner for an ambitious Energy Pact. Ladies and gentlemen, progressive colleagues, but not the conservative N-VA and not the nuclear lobby, let us decide together on a nuclear trip.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u28	Mr. President, Prime Minister, you have given us your four objectives. But when we are witnessing the debate in our Committee on Energy, there are obvious objectives. Following the hearings organised, the people met, there is an axis according to which we are moving towards an energy transition that mixes renewables, gas support, storage, demand management. These objectives are self-evident. Your answer announced the obvious. Statements, but no decision! Once again, you played the watch. You haven't decided, but the country needs decisions. Whether it is business or citizens, we urge you to implement the energy transition. Mr Jambon is entering the Chamber, and we will be able to get information on-line. The Acting Prime Minister is in session, Mr. 2025! Businesses and citizens need decisions. We urge you to send a clear message for sustainable energy at an acceptable price. I was waiting for you to rise to the heights today when you decided. I'm disappointed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, all of us here have been questioned by many extremely worried artists. Concerned because, without consultation or preamble, the interpretation of the rules allowing them to access and retain the status of artist has changed. In the discussion of the policy note, Minister, you had the opportunity to answer a question asked by my colleague and then indicated that the law had not been changed in any way and that the rules had not been tightened. In a way, you have validated this measure, giving reason to the restrictive interpretation of the ONEM. However, it must be noted that these new abusive rules of interpretation simply exclude from the status of artist a large number of people who had previously enjoyed it. This is a genuine breach of contract! Here are a few examples: whereas this is not in the legal definition, as soon as there is reference to a collective labour agreement, there can be no question of remuneration on the job and the benefit cannot be taken into account to guarantee the maintenance of that status. [[Brouhahaha]] Perhaps the defense of artists is less important than the exit from nuclear power, but I ask you for a little attention, thank you! Benefits are systematically refused if they have the misfortune of not being included in a list. Slammers, for example, are excluded, as if there was a limitation on artistic expression. Minister, you said in committee that the law would not be amended and that you were going to convene a meeting at which the ONEM could give more details about it. What about this meeting? What came out of it? Minister, I am the voice-bearer of these many artists who ask you: do not put them "naked", but support them! While waiting of course for an improvement, an extension of the status of artist, restore the old rules of interpretation and enter, please, in consultation with the sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u30	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, during the discussions on your policy note, we had an opportunity to discuss the problem facing our artists today. If I were to question you, it is because artists are front-line actors for our social cohesion, for the defense of a sense of belonging to our society, based on the sharing of a culture. Who wears and defends culture? These are the artists, to whom we would like to grant a true social status full and complete. We did not achieve this when we put in place this "hybrid" social status, which aims to maintain their social rights despite their flexible working hours, despite the special forms of remuneration they enjoy today. If I asked you about this ten days earlier, it is because today's artists cannot be pioneers of workers without rights. In committee, then, after I explained to you the scope of the arrangements made by the ONEM, you agreed that you would go to the ONEM, that you would meet with the artists' representatives so that they could keep a right to pay for the job (turning a stamp into working days), allowing them to keep their right to unemployment. Today, Minister, have you had the opportunity to meet, on the one hand, with the ONEM and, on the other hand, with the artists to whom this remuneration is denied for contracts agreed prior to October 13, when the ONEM, on its own initiative, made this decision that penalizes them?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, it should be stressed that the rules on unemployment take account of the specific situation of an artist and provide for derogations for him to be admitted to unemployment benefits. This provision is maintained and I repeat that I will not change the current regulations. Mrs Gerkens, I have already given you some information in committee and I think it is very important to find, within the legal framework, a solution to the artist problem. I understand the artists' current concern about the actions of the ONEM. I have therefore convened a working group within the Management Committee of the ONEM which will once again consider this issue. I hope to receive adequate information and answers by the end of the year because, like you, I believe that the rules must be respected and that a clear answer must be given to the artists. I hope to be able to give you additional information in 2018 and convince artists that there is no need to take important action against the minister responsible for employment.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u32	Mr President, Minister, your answer has reassured me, and I believe that the arts sector will also be. As you know, this sector is facing difficulties. I will not recall here the essential role of artists and culture that enhances our daily lives, both at home and abroad. The artists deserve our utmost respect and I will ask you to continue on this path and defend them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u33	Thank you for respecting the commitments you made in committee and to meet with the ONEM to remind him that he must respect the rules and not interpret in a diverse and sometimes abusive way the rights of artists. Can I conclude from your answer that artists who have been penalized from October 13 to today or until the day of this meeting will not be penalized, since this interpretation is an initiative of ONEM officials and does not correspond to any changes you wish to make? If you want to work on a real social status of artists, you will have us by your side. We have a year to finalize it before the next elections.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u34	Minister, I didn't want to believe it at first, but unfortunately it turned out to be true. Last Sunday an election took place in four different cities in our country in which illegals, people without papers, as one says in politically correct terms, could vote for candidates to represent them at the Economic and Social Council of Europe where some conference on this issue will take place shortly. This has been done openly. In Sint-Niklaas, Brussels, Liège and Charleroi, elections took place in several local elections. There were four candidates, all four illegals. One of them was elected, Mr Diallo Mamadou, who, according to his election paper, has been illegally resident in our country since 2011 in several cities and also on the Internet. The other candidates stayed illegally in our country since 2013, 2007 and 2011. That's what they read on their election propaganda. Before that election, some 450 illegals came up to vote for their candidates. Mr Diallo Mamadou has been elected. Mr Mustafa Aboulkhir is his replacement for the Council of Europe. That's surreal. I have also seen a report on this in the news of the RTBF. The RTBF has openly filmed those elections, reported on them and conducted interviews with those involved. All this can be done in our country: public elections of illegal immigrants who organise themselves and hold elections in buildings of all kinds. Our country is like a sort of illegolopolis, in which illegality and clandestinity are tolerated. That is why my question to you, Minister for the Interior, is quite obvious. How can this kind of election be organised without the government acting and without your services making that impossible?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u35	Mr Dewinter, this is possible because we live in the rule of law. A Constitution is in force under the rule of law. That Constitution states that there is freedom of association for Belgium. In a law of 1921, that was extended to everyone who is on our territory. If certain people think that they should in any way refer to a spokesperson, because that is what we are talking about here, it is a spokesperson who should be referred to and that is what is happening peacefully, then I do not see why we should use force to prevent it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u36	Minister, that is a very special and curious answer. So you are saying here today that people who are illegally, illegally and without documents in our country and who ultimately commit a criminal offence by staying illegally in our country without paper, without any object of the government, the police or anyone else can organise and organise elections here, identify representatives and so on. Mr Home Secretary, you will understand that this is a state-of-the-art invitation, an open invitation to all those who reside elsewhere in illegality to come to our country. This is the clearest, most ostentative evidence that illegality is tolerated in our country, which I say encouraged and facilitated by the government. After all, it seems that Sunday's elections of illegal immigrants could take place in this country to identify illegal immigrants to be represented in a European institution. This is the world upside down. Belgium is not only illegapolis but also Absurdistan.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u37	Mr. Secretary, I don't know if you've had a chance to look at the reportage. There are no new elements, but when one looks at the whole thing, it is quite bloody to see how a problem like drugs can dominate a city, which means in terms of nuisance, crime or the way in which the entire social fabric in the city is affected. Ten-year-olds are being called in. Fifteen- and sixteen-year-olds in class say they deserve more than the teachers they teach. It is noted that the problem needs to be addressed. It is not for nothing that we sometimes talk about confused drugs. In addition, there is also a total omerta with scores and shootings. It is seen that port workers play a part in this. Policemen are threatened. We are not talking about Naples here, we are talking about Antwerp. Mr Vice Prime Minister, it's like Naples on the Scheldt. For my group, that is all terrifying. Minister, it is clear that the Antwerp police cannot handle this alone. That is why I am asking you this question. It all starts with the port import. Customs intercepted 29 tonnes of coke last year, but could only check 1% of containers. There is a need for action by the judiciary and the police, including to dry out money laundering and so on. Prevention is also needed. We need to focus on the urban environment. We must ensure that young people stay off the streets and go to school. That is why I ask you, Minister. An integrated approach is needed, a chain approach. I refer to what happened in Brussels with the Channel Plan. What is needed here is action by local police, by city services, by port companies, by the various ministers, but also by the Minister for Combating Fraud. A while ago, there was a Power Plan. How's the Power Plan coming along? This is not about energy, but about a similar approach in Molenbeek with the Channel Plan. Is that plan implemented? Is that on the government table? Can you inform Parliament about the state of implementation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u38	Mr Dewael, the problem has been known for a long time. We didn't need the Panoreportage for that. You are right that we do not need an isolated approach by several administrations for this type of phenomenon, but a global approach. That is why we also met in Antwerp in September: the local police, the federal police, customs, port services, State Secretary De Backer for the social inspection, in order to arrive at an integrated approach similar to the Channel Plan. What's the status? The plan is as good as round. There are still a few consultations planned. At the end of January, we will come out with a final plan bringing together the various services in a common approach to address this unacceptable phenomenon in a coordinated manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u39	Minister, the plan has indeed been under discussion for a long time. I think it is right that this should be done at a certain point in time. So I take your word for it, Minister, and we will remind you of this at the end of January.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u40	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I think that at the moment we are all engaged in carrying out surveys within our own municipalities in preparation for the municipal elections. Safety is always one of the important aspects. Security is a task for the police but can also be a task for the military as we see in the cities. Mr Dewael has just referred to the integrated safety chain. Security is increasingly a matter of all of us. The longer the boards want to bet on that. Mayors want to bet on that. CD&V, together with his mayors, has drawn up notes on this subject in which we consider armed administration, administrative enforcement to be very important. The government agreement also contains clear agreements on this, although they are quite minimal. All mayors who want to do enforcement together, to ensure security and to accept their responsibility, regardless of the police or military, ask for information to act, to be able to maintain administratively. My question is quite simple, referring to the coalition agreement which announces the need to provide a number of frameworks on this subject. Where are we on administrative enforcement? Where are we with the frameworks that need to be created to give even mayors sufficient power to act as some sort of armed government?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u41	Mr President, Mr Terwingen, we have talked about this subject a number of times, including in this House. Our approach consists of two shutters. One part is the creation of RIEC. Last week we had the opportunity to install a RIEC in Hasselt in Limburg. In that information office, mayors and local authorities can obtain information when faced with an opening of a new case and they suspect that there are problems with it and do not have all the information. In this RIEC, concerted actions can also be planned with all possible services to assist the mayors to carry out a thorough social inspection, financial inspection or inspection of spatial planning. That inspection is then coordinated from the RIEC and can be done in consultation with the local police. The RIEC will also connect with the European Agency to allow information to flow where necessary. We installed that RIEC in Limburg with three permanent staff. In Antwerp it was started with two staff and a third staff member will be added on 1 January so that it will be fully operational from then on. In Namur we plan a RIEC in the first trimester of next year. These are three pilot projects that should give us information on where legislation is still lacking. This brings me to the part of the legislation. As you know, Brice De Ruyver, blissful remembrance, has done a very good job of taking stock of the resources and methods available to local authorities under current legislation. He has also exposed which things still require legislative work. Together with my colleague Koen Geens, I am completing that now. In the near future, we will be able to move to the government to extend the legislative work on armed administration, administrative enforcement. This work is in the final stage and will be presented to the government in one of the following weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u42	Thank you, Minister, for your clear answer. It's a good thing you remember that first hatch. If you had someone to support you in bringing such information and expertise centres to Belgium, it was me. A Euroregional ARIEC is yet to be established, and I will, of course, support you in this. The second hatch is important. I'm a little worried about that. It's important that the mayors get that information delivered. In the Netherlands, this is regulated by the BIPDO legislation which allows the mayors to request this information from a particular agency. They can get advice there, which they also have a certain authority and which they can apply. What I fear and what we really need to avoid is that only certain elements are given to the mayors and that they must then further analyse and evaluate what to do with them. I would argue that, by analogy with the Netherlands, we should come up with an agency that gives authoritative advice that mayors can apply in their local regulations. This is certainly true of the border municipalities, of course, but I believe that all colleagues in this Chamber will agree with me that this is an instrument that all the municipalities, not just the border municipalities, can use to deal with organised crime and the common crime that we face in connection with drugs.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u43	Mr President, Minister, I was very surprised by your statements on the extension of nuclear power. You are the deputy prime minister of this government and also the minister responsible for nuclear safety. You are normally not a spokesperson for employers' associations at all. It's no secret to anyone, the reliability of nuclear power plants decreases with the aging of facilities. Do you seriously intend to extend the life of our plants once again? Do you intend to extend the lifespan of Tihange 2 and Doel 3, of which we know that the reactor tanks are micro-cracked and cause concern to our German and Dutch neighbours? Their viability is still being called into question by very serious specialists. Do you intend to extend Doel 4 who was sabotaged three years ago, without the culprit being identified yet? Are you really going, as your party announced on its website, to extend the life of our nuclear power plants to 2065? Forty more years! There is a great deal of public concern about nuclear security. I'm sure you've received some feedback from the last report on the subject on the RTBF this week. Minister, how are you going to reassure the Belgians by deciding on further extensions?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u44	Mr Thiébaut, with regard to the extension of the life of nuclear power plants, it seems to me that the Prime Minister responded at the beginning of the sitting. The decision on the future of nuclear power plants will be taken by the government. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u45	Colleagues, let the minister speak!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u46	Clearly, the safety of nuclear power plants is a key element in this decision-making. This is one of the four parameters that we are going to study again. We have already discussed on several occasions the current safety of our power plants. I will respond consistently, and my answer is always the same. I am the AFCN in all its opinions, without calling them into question. I trust our nuclear security agency. Sometimes we disagree, but so far and for the rest of the legislature, I will follow the advice of the Federal Nuclear Control Agency. This is demonstrated by the fact that when the AFCN proposes to close a nuclear facility, it is done. If the AFCN then says it is reassured and confirms that the elements to ensure the safety of the installation are present, it is reopened. This will be my course of action for the rest of the legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u47	Minister, you didn't answer me. My question was simple. It consisted of knowing, in the case of an extension of the life of our old plants, as you intend to do, how we will guarantee their viability and the safety of the environment and citizens. You don't answer that question. You don't have a solution. Your answer is worrying for the safety of citizens and for the protection of our environment in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u48	I've been told Minister None is on their way. Minister Van Overtveldt and colleague Van Peteghem are present. I would like to begin with the question to the Minister for Finance. I also ask the services to call Minister Reynders.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u49	Thank you, Minister, for being here. After all, today's debate shows that the climate affects everyone. We've been over this before. Last week there was a poll of VTM in which 85% of the population indicated that they were awake from the climate. In that debate, citizens have a partner to CD&V. One of the fundamental values on which our party is built is that we are caring about the world in which we live. CD&V wants to ensure the future both for this generation and for all subsequent generations. We fully support any initiative taken to this end. Minister, we were particularly pleased that our Prime Minister announced at the One Planet Summit in Paris that green bonds would be launched in our country from next year onwards. In addition to a financial return, these bonds will also have a social impact. They're necessary. It is investment that prepares our economy for the future: investment in sustainable and affordable energy forms, in the development of a circular economy, in sustainable mobility, in green innovation and so on. We are imposing very strict rules on this. The sustainable nature of these investments is very strongly emphasised, and we are also saying very clearly that they require the collection of EUR 5 billion. All this is anything but non-binding. It is a very ambitious commitment of this government and of this country. Mr Minister, that is why I have questions. What will be the modalities of these green bonds? Is it intended to extend this to the regions in the long term so that we actually involve the whole country in these efforts? Will it also be possible for citizens to participate in this?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u50	Colleagues, Mr Van Peteghem, of course the government also subscribes to the climate change mitigation initiatives. A new part of this is indeed the issue of these green bonds, green bonds. We have worked out that project over the past few months, together with the Belgian Debt Agency. It is indeed the intention of this instrument to create a specific channel for these green investments, not least towards climate and climate objectives. You have already mentioned the intention to raise EUR 3 to 5 billion in this first try-out. It is also intended to proceed quickly, so that there is sufficient liquidity in that market fairly quickly. That's very important, isn't it? First of all, we are focusing on what is called institutional investors. That is to say, both those who invest in government paper in a classic way and those who want to give their investments or investment strategy a more green touch as an institutional investor. Indeed, in the first instance, the small investor, the average citizen, will not yet have access to the direct issue. It goes without saying, however, that when this expenditure is made, there will immediately be a secondary market to which citizens will have access. That will, of course, happen very quickly. As a country, this issue is one of the biggest issues that ever happened in that area. I have already indicated that it is the intention to continue along this road in the near future. Immediately after the issue we will organise a colloquium together with the financial sector and the regulators, in order to give the project an immediate initial evaluation, with hopefully also guidelines or guidelines for the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u51	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The climate objectives are very ambitious and we must show the necessary ambition to achieve them, for the future of our children and grandchildren. We must not lose that battle. You mentioned it and I am very pleased that we are taking the lead in this with our country. I'm very proud of that. We have very clear objectives and we must try to achieve them. The issue of green bonds shows that there is a strategic vision for the future in this country with this government. We choose a sustainable, viable future, and we must do everything we can to achieve that vision. The bonds are one element of that. I am very pleased that you have put forward this plan and we fully support it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, it may have to do with the shift that we have made in the timetable, but in the absence of a minister, I must now suspend the session. We will resume our work as soon as possible. The meeting is adjourned. The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u53	The meeting was resumed. The sitting has resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u54	Mr President, Minister, I really need to talk about a tradition and not so much about extradition. In popular terms, that is the same thing, although it is something else in legal terms. Mr. Secretary, you know the case. Last summer we were confronted with a specific situation when a Belgian investigating judge asked for the surrender of a number of suspects on drug offences. A Dutch judge then decided not to do so. It was based on the report of the anti-folter committee, on living conditions in prisons, on the wave of strikes and on the overcrowding that existed at the time. At that time, you were able to clarify that file, after which the judge finally decided to hand over five suspects, but with the very specific emphasis that the guarantees could only be given to those concerned. Meanwhile, convictions have taken place, including in drug files, convictions up to eight years, with orders for immediate arrest, but those involved are in the Netherlands. That case-law could therefore have a precedent value. Minister, what is the state of affairs in relation to the traditions between Belgium and the Netherlands? Is there an evolution? Have we been able to offer additional guarantees that will stop the surrenders being refused? Or is this case law being systematically implemented, so that one can remain safe and free in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u55	Mr President, Mrs De Wit, first of all I would like to apologize to you and to the House for arriving a few seconds late. My cabinet is a little further away. I did my best, though. The extradition procedure, of course, no longer exists in relation to the Netherlands. We only have the European Arrest Warrant, which has become well known in recent months. That should normally lead to a tradition comme une lettre à la poste. However, the judge is given a number of instructions by the European legislator not to immediately decide on surrender in certain cases. In the Netherlands, in two recent cases, a Dutch judge at the level of the district court in Amsterdam has indeed used these handles which grant the European arrest warrant to the court of the host State........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Up to twice the Amsterdam Court has obtained information from the Belgian authorities on detention conditions in Belgian prisons. My department and I have done our best to provide this information within the right time frame and with the necessary details. In both cases, we finally got the surrender, which reassures me for the future, in the sense that no additional specific requests have been made since then and there have been no further difficulties in this area. I can only say that we are dealing here with a procedure which is carried out between two judicial authorities and in which the government, the executive, plays no role other than giving information, as we have done. I hope that the efficiency gains we have achieved with the European Arrest Warrant can still often be achieved with the Netherlands in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u56	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. You did tell the Dutch court that the guaranteed service would be introduced at the end of this year, which would be one of the guarantees you would have offered. That is why I am concerned, because it is not here today. It is important that we continue to be able to provide these guarantees and that we ensure that the surrender can take place. Otherwise, this case law will remain in the Netherlands and the Netherlands will become a kind of free port for those convicted in Belgium. One is quickly across the border and then one is cheerful and free. After ten years, the sentence is over. We cannot tolerate that. You have promised the guaranteed services to the Netherlands. We are counting on that here in Belgium today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u57	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as we know, addiction to gambling is a scourge. The addiction can lead the player into a negative spiral, which has consequences not only for him, but also for his environment and his loved ones. Pathological gambling is a real scourge in our society. The Supreme Council of Health has taken up this issue. In November 2017, he published a study and an opinion on the problem of pathological gambling. Unfortunately, we lack objective and quantified data to enable us to analyse the phenomenon more accurately in our country. The problem would affect between 1 and 5 per cent of the population. We feel like we need to go further in the analysis. Today, technological advances are too fast for the legislator to follow. Through instant betting, television, smartphone or any other means, it is possible to play very quickly, by impulse, and the addiction is reinforced. The Higher Council of Health makes three recommendations in relation to the problem of pathological gambling. The first is simply the prohibition of advertising on gambling. The second is the reduction in the availability of games, raising the legal age and limiting opening hours. The third objective is the creation of an independent supervisory body to monitor compliance with the exclusion of pathological players and the obligation to report problematic players by gaming operators. Minister, these recommendations deserve our full attention. My questions are very simple. What is your personal analysis of these recommendations? Do you have any contact with the players in the sector? Among public and private actors, there is a desire to go further in the discussion in order to better frame the problem of the legal game, so that the illegal game does not take the place, with its drifts. Finally, are you going to give concrete legislative follow-up to these recommendations of the Higher Health Council?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u58	Mr Goffin, the opinion of the Higher Council of Health was delivered on 11 December 2017. I fully share the concerns expressed therein. Essentially, the following points are highlighted in the report. First point: advertisements for games of chance must be prohibited. A total ban on this type of advertising seems difficult to do and could also have a perverse effect, in the sense that players could be attracted to the illegal circuit. We did, however, act on the legislative front by means of a royal decree aimed at further reducing advertising for gambling. For example, advertising for games of chance will be prohibited in front of live sports competitions and children's programs. Before 8:00 p.m., no advertising can be made for online games. These initiatives demonstrate that we are trying to achieve optimal protection for the player. The draft royal decrees which provide for these provisions are currently being submitted to the European Commission for its opinion. It takes about three months. The Commission has until 18 January to make its remarks. After that date and on the basis of the remarks made, we will be able to continue the work and submit the texts to the Council of State, after which they will be submitted to the parliamentary debate. Second recommendation: more support should be provided for vulnerable players. The conclusions of the opinion that self-help groups should be provided for at the provincial level can certainly be considered in the long term with the various actors involved. As far as this opinion is concerned, I read in the media that the gambling committee would be too closely involved in the sector. It's referred to as the UNIZO in the sector. It is up to her to keep an eye on the sector and, in any case, to give priority to the protection of players. In practice, more and more work is being done. In particular, more effective systems are being sought in order to carry out the processes of identifying players and to encourage their awareness. In addition, additional attention will be paid to the particular vulnerability of young people, as the increased risk goes hand in hand with online gambling. For now, we are preparing a set of regulatory and legislative measures that will have to be ready before the big holidays. Mr Goffin, you should know that regulating this issue is extremely complicated! Therefore, we are doing what we can, especially since I am very attached to it personally.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u59	Minister, thank you for your answers. I am aware of the complexity because the explosion of technology makes things much more difficult in terms of control and regulation. In the Committee on Justice, we wanted a debate to be organised with all the actors around the texts when they came back from the path you described. It'll be a good time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u60	Minister, there is encouraging news today. Belgium will send two ambassadors to Iran and Saudi Arabia next summer. For Saudi Arabia that would be an international scoop. I understand that the ambassador for Iran may join her Dutch colleague there. They have a difficult task ahead of them, because the two countries are at the top of the most misogynous regimes in the world. Recently there was international applause, because Saudi Arabia stated that women will soon be able to drive and go to sports competitions. That international applause says everything about the tristes of women in those countries. Mr. Secretary, I have a few questions for you. That's an important signal. We welcome that, but do they receive specific instructions? Should they wear a headscarf to diplomatic contacts? Will they draw particular attention to the situation of oppressed women in Saudi Arabia and Iran? Countries can choose whether or not to accept ambassadors through an agreement. Is there any response from Riyadh and Tehran to our decision?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u61	Mr President, Minister, as we have learned today, among the various diplomatic appointments to new embassies, two women will soon be ambassadors to Iran and Saudi Arabia, respectively. This is a strong political signal. Minister, my questions are simple. What will be the instructions? In addition to the usual instructions, will there be any other ones related to having, with these two designations, an international first in diplomatic relations with those two States? Moreover, in relation to the privileged contacts of our excellent diplomats with the Human Rights Council in Geneva, but also within the United Nations, will there be any specific messages to be conveyed in those countries?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u62	Mr President, first of all, we are striving for equal opportunities for men and women in Belgium and certainly in the Department of Foreign Affairs. That's how two cabinet chiefs are wives. In addition, two women are part of the Executive Committee of the FPS Foreign Affairs. That's a first step. In short, we are making efforts in this area in our department. I am very pleased to be able to appoint two female candidates for the posts in Riyadh and Tehran. That's a first step. Two female diplomats are themselves asking to go to Riyadh and Tehran. As far as the instructions are concerned, they are exactly the same as for a male diplomat. Nothing else! For the time being, we are having intense discussions with these two countries. I have asked the chairman of the department to report to the Foreign Affairs Committee on his mission with several State departments in Saudi Arabia. Of course, our local ambassador will continue the work that has been started with our Saudi colleagues to see how to advance the status of women. In many other areas, including the fight against radicalism – the chairman of the committee who has mentioned this issue of terrorism is well aware of this – we are working on how to combat the spread of certain radical ideas from Saudi Arabia or other Gulf countries in our country. With Tehran, it will also be a matter of continuing to work on human rights. We are now engaged in a serious discussion on the death penalty. For example, we ask that Professor Djalali's death penalty should not be enforced. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to have found today two candidates determined to go to these countries, but I am saddened to see that this is causing an event in our country. It should become natural to send ambassadors anywhere in the world, but I understand the reaction because it is less obvious to the countries to which we send these ambassadors to receive them. I hope that the procedure will proceed smoothly. It's too early to give you an indication. It is too early to be able to say anything about the reactions of the two countries. We're at the beginning of the procedure. I have received a proposal from my board of directors, but we must first issue a royal decree. Then there can be concrete contact with Riyadh and Tehran. Thank you for your questions. The fact that the two female diplomats themselves are asking to go to Tehran and Riyadh is, in my opinion, a very good initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u63	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. First of all, it is a good thing that you strive for the gender balance of your cabinet and advocate it in our society. I can only welcome that. You agree with me that there is a great imbalance between our country and the misogynous regimes in Saudi Arabia and Iran. It is indeed courageous that the two women should be eligible for this position. Maybe they could get some coffee with two other brave women. First, I'll name Darya Safai, you may know. She is an excellent advocate of women's rights in Iran and I think it is right that the two women should speak with her before they leave. I also recommend Mona Eltahawy's book "Head cloth and hymen." It calls for a sexual revolution in the Arab countries. I believe that we should also work on this: women can fight for their own rights from the bottom up. We must encourage this. I believe that we must repeat this message from our country: equality between men and women is a vital security for us.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u64	Minister, I share your sadness. It is true that it is a shame, in 2017, to have to rejoice at this point. But I am all the more pleased that I have just learned that the request to go to this post was made by the diplomats themselves. I stress the importance, boldness and courage of these ambassadors. These missions are not and will not be easy. Work, including on women's rights and equality, is a job that we must do here and that we must also export abroad because we have achievements and convictions in this area. Minister, thank you for this answer and I wish these two ambassadors an excellent mission.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u65	Mr Minister, a file that was messed up from the beginning was described in the Eurostadion file of Brussels. Because of this clumsy situation, UEFA has decided to remove our country as a host country and as a host country for Euro 2020. This was written in the stars. Brussels has chosen to create a megalomaniac stadium outside its territory. That had to come at a place where the rules in force would never allow it. This was known from the beginning. This should have been known in Brussels too, but it was probably thought with a degree of arrogance that we could fit into these rules. Fortunately, the time has passed when the spirit of entre nous was able to regulate all matters. I believe that every citizen, and certainly the government, must abide by the rules that apply somewhere. In short, it was the PS government of Vervoort who single-handedly mishandled this file. Neither Flanders, nor the federal government, nor the N-VA, nor the Football League, nor Bart Verhaege had any fault for that. Meanwhile, we are years away and it has become painfully clear that the project at Parking C has been written off. However, there is a solution in the form of the renovation of the existing stadium on the Heizel site. That site has a lot of potential. This was also understood by the Brussels PS, because it is planning a major project there, the NEO project. Why not integrate the stadium into that project? Today, I even read in the newspaper proposals from construction companies that respond to them and that want to realize them. Mr. Secretary, this file has been completely messed up. Now the Brussels government wants to transfer the blackbird to the federal government. Rudy Vervoort proposes that the federal government take over this file. For me, that's a weakness offer. In fact, he means that his own government is no longer able to manage the file. Now, ladies and gentlemen, the federal government is capable of a lot, but a rotten cake is never tasty again. You can pour as much whipped cream on that as you like. Minister, I have two clear questions for you. What do you think of Prime Minister Vervoort's request to transfer this file to the federal government? What do you think of the slope of the renovation of the existing stadium?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u66	Mrs De Coninck, first of all I regret the failure of the Euro Stadium with regard to the European Championship 2020. It is a disaster that Brussels will not be present as a host city for the European Championship. This is a strange situation for the capital of Europe. I have three comments to make. Firstly, like many others, a few years ago I received information from the press about the decision of the Brussels Government to build a new stadium in Grimbergen. I understand that there has been no contact with the municipality, with the province of Flemish Brabant or even with the Flemish Government. We see that so far there is no agreement between the various authorities. However, there was no question to the federal government in that regard. It was a decision taken by the Brussels government in Ostend, a very nice Brussels municipality, on the 'Brussels coast'. There was chosen for the location in Grimbergen, without question to the federal government or consultation with other governments. Secondly, in the past we have already taken such an initiative for the candidacy of Belgium and the Netherlands for the World Cup in 2018. At that time it was possible to have proper cooperation between the Regions, the municipalities, the cities and the federal government. I was then Minister of Finance and we were prepared to give a tax incentive for the renovation of various infrastructures in many different cities. In Zurich, however, the choice was made for Russia and Qatar, so Belgium had no chance anymore. Thirdly, we are still prepared to do something at federal level, but with all the different governments and with a global approach to the dossier. I am therefore still in favour of the renovation of the Heizel stadium. I think it would be better for Brussels to do so within the Brussels Region and in the capital of Belgium, Brussels City. Secondly, we must do so in cooperation with all governments. A few years ago, for example, Beliris was expected to do something. You know it's only possible for Beliris to do something within the 19 municipalities, not outside. I regret today's situation. At the time, it was the decision of the Brussels Government to make only a choice, but we are always prepared to sit back around the table for a global approach to all the elements in this dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u67	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your clear and comprehensive answer. You confirm the track of the renovation of the current stadium in Brussels and even say that there might be a possibility for Beliris resources. I am pleased to hear you say that the federal government cannot simply take over and solve this dossier on its own and that the Brussels Government itself has made a mess of things. I regret that, too. It is clear that Brussels needs a new policy and, in my view, a new Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u68	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, 'raped, murdered and burned' headlined De Morgen today. That is the fate of thousands of Rohingya who cannot escape from Myanmar. According to Doctors Without Borders, who published a report today, there are now at least 6 700 deadly victims, including 730 children under the age of five. People were shot while they fled, others were battered to death. Those who fled into their homes were burned alive. Thousands of Rohingya women, who were initially able to escape, were raped just after watching their children murdered. The worst thing is that there are many more deadly victims than have been known to be sure. Meanwhile, the persecutions and atrocities continue. Minister, according to the UN, there are indications that the Myanmar regime is carrying out ethnic cleansing against the Rohingya. At this point, more than 650 000 Rohingya fled to refugee camps in Bangladesh. Even though their situation is far from ideal there, they are safe there from the madness that is in Myanmar's grip. Colleagues, such inhumane situations are intolerable and we must respond to them. Minister, how will Belgium respond to the new revelations that reveal the scale and brutality of the crimes committed by the regime in Myanmar? What diplomatic and humanitarian initiatives will come from Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u69	Mr President, Mrs Pehlivan, I have repeatedly expressed my concern about this situation, as have you and many partners in and outside Europe. The situation of the Rohingya is unacceptable. We must exert diplomatic pressure on the regime in Myanmar. We have already done this at the United Nations, through many Belgian interventions in Geneva as well as in New York, in the European Union and through many bilateral contacts with my colleagues from the region. It is very important to get pressure from the region too, from China but also from Indonesia and other countries. I have also had contacts with India on this issue. With all this pressure, it is still possible to make some progress. That may not be enough, but in this way we will have better humanitarian access to the Rohingya in the various camps and on the ground, especially in Bangladesh. There is also a possible agreement between Bangladesh and Myanmar to allow the return of the Rohingya to the state of Rakhine. So there is now an agreement between the two countries. Now that agreement must also be properly implemented. However, that is not yet certain. We therefore call for the presence of international organisations on the ground to ensure proper reception of the Rohingya and to ensure proper implementation of the agreement on the return to Myanmar. That too is not enough. After all, a return to Myanmar must be accompanied by a democratic approach. This means that the Rohingya must have a real statute. However, this is currently being refused. So that might be the next step. So the steps are next. First, the cessation of violence, then a possible better reception in Bangladesh, followed by a return and, finally, strong pressure on Myanmar for a real status for the Rohingya. That is the direction we are heading. There are many diplomatic initiatives at European level, at UN level and with a number of bilateral partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u70	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I and many of my colleagues are shocked by the latest reports. I've been following up on this file for a while. Steps have been taken, but I believe that we need to go much further. The Rohingya have been living in unacceptable conditions for decades and are systematically discriminated against. This discrimination is, by the way, legally established. Something must be done about this. Last week I met a number of representatives of the Rohingya community in Belgium. They have urged me not only to talk about the current atrocities, but also to point out the situation that has been going on for decades. I have drawn up a motion for a resolution which I will present today. I hope you will support it. I invite colleagues to sign it with me, by the way. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u71	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u72	The general discussion has resumed. The general discussion was resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u73	Ladies and gentlemen, we are taking up our agenda. The proposal is to start with the chapter on energy and the environment. I give the floor to Mrs Temmerman.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u74	Mr President, Minister, Ministers, but of course I am mainly addressing you, Madam Minister. I actually wanted to congratulate you on your Energy Pact yesterday, but we all know what is happening in the meantime. It would be a very important step in the energy transition and, above all, an important step towards investment security for renewable energy. We all know that political instability and changing the rules of the game permanently after each election is, of course, very damaging to investment. What does the Energy Pact say? We still hope, but that is one of the questions, of course, that the core step will be retained. The focus is on efficiency. By 2050 we must heat fossil-free. And we're going for 100 percent renewable in 2050. Madam Secretary, sp.a wants to fully support this. Once again, we want to fully support this Energy Pact and, above all, your core step. We all know that one party from your coalition does not agree with this. We also find it a little strange that the Prime Minister is going to look mainly at the regions for the purpose of development. You may remind the Prime Minister that security of supply is a competence of the federal government and that the key step in the federal government agreement is in place. Madam Secretary, we had hearings the day before yesterday. I'm sorry you weren't here, but of course you know all these studies. There were differences in the studies, that's right. But there was one thing in common, every study said that the core exit is possible by 2025, but, and all studies also say that action must be taken now. Actions are now needed. Moreover, a number of studies also say that investment will be necessary in the future. Despite the fact that the N-VA says it wants to keep two nuclear power plants open, even then those investments in those alternatives will have to be made. Action is necessary. Offshore should be further developed as soon as possible. I now summarize the various studies in one movement. This means that we need to establish a new place and, above all, a new maritime spatial implementation plan, that the MOG should stay on track and that we should start Stevin II. The North Sea Minister is also here, so I hope you will be able to work well together, because that is necessary. The studies differ in the calculation of the number of gas plants that will be required, taking into account energy efficiency, storage, interconnection and demand flexibility. Madam Secretary, the federal government in general and you in particular bear a great responsibility here. My question is therefore what your approach will be in view of the situation you are now in. I do not envy you in view of the fact that there is disagreement within the government and also in view of the fact that one coalition partner has actually already fired off your Energy Pact before you got off to a good start. Madam Secretary, what is your plan of action? How will you ensure that the energy transition is possible? How will you ensure that this energy transition is not just for the happy few, but for the whole population? I would also like to remind you that the survey recently conducted by the FPS clearly points out that around 80% of the population support the policy of closing down and even investing in nuclear power plants. By this I mean that one understands that there is a cost involved. Madam Secretary, I hope you stand firm. You have your Energy Pact ready. Two governments have already adopted the Energy Pact. I hope that, in the very short term, I would like to stress that this Energy Pact will also be adopted with this government in the very short term. If this does not happen in the very short term, it will again be a gift to the large energy supplier, the energy supplier of the nuclear power stations. Either way, we want to get rid of that. Thanks a lot.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u75	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are talking about the policy paper by Minister Marghem, which was discussed in committee some time ago and where my colleague Werner Janssen replaced me with dignity. I think we can ask the questions again, but in the light of yesterday's statements, I have the impression that you would very much like to have a different debate with me. Many of you have intervened on the Energy Pact or at least on the text prepared by the four Energy Ministers, texts on which we have indeed been waiting a long time. You will agree with me that the intention was to have this debate by the end of 2015, because at that time the Energy Pact was intended to be implemented. It would have been even better if we had been able to debate alternatives in 2003 when the initial core step was decided, but we all know what history is. The Prime Minister has repeated it. We have had to wait a long time for the energy vision and the nuclear exit law to be dealt with. At that time it was primarily about a political decision and a government formation, but that was a long time ago. Today we are talking about an energy vision that needs to be worked out. In my view, the Energy Pact is a step that we still have to wait for. After all, the current coalition agreement provides for the energy vision, after consultation with stakeholders, to result in an Energy Pact. The government had a very clear concern when approving the government agreement, namely guaranteeing security of supply, affordability and sustainability of the energy transition, so that it can achieve a core step. I repeat that last sentence, which is very important in this debate, and I have the impression that it is forgotten far too often. It is about ensuring security of supply, affordability and sustainability, so that the government can achieve a key step. Moreover, the government has committed itself to developing a monitoring and correction mechanism to ensure security of supply, affordability, sustainability and security, including in the longer term. That's what the coalition agreement says. The same coalition agreement also addresses the famous energy standard. The aim of the energy standard is to protect the competitiveness of businesses and the purchasing power of families. The different components of energy costs such as the networkosts, the cost of energy production itself, taxes, charges, etc., should not be higher than in the neighbouring countries. Furthermore, the energy standard had to include a correction mechanism which would allow us to intervene, if any, to reduce these deviations. Ladies and gentlemen, this is clearly the framework of the coalition agreement with which we are working. This brings us almost seamlessly to the text now presented by the four ministers and to the studies that have already been cited a few times today. What connects the various studies is that they are quite similar in terms of the need for new gas plants. You know them: Albrecht, EnergyVille, Elijah, and so on. Everyone agrees: there is a need for additional gas plants. The complete closure of nuclear power stations involves 8 to 9 gas plants. If two nuclear power stations are kept open for longer, and in other words 5 others are closed, about 1 500 to 2 000 megawatts can be used to reduce the number of gas plants. Where scenarios differ mainly in terms of quantity, type of renewable energy, CO2 emissions, and, of course, the cost of the different scenarios. It's gonna go from paying a lot more to paying a lot more. Johan Albrecht says it's about a fork of about 40 % to 100 % more pay for our energy. EnergyVille accounts for between €3 billion and €4.5 billion in most scenarios in 2030. Elia herself is talking about EUR 2 to 3 billion, just to cover investment and fixed costs. I do not always agree with the CREG, but I have to admit that she said that those figures are actually a little low and that extra detailed research is needed. If we look at this not only for 2030 but over a period of time, then we are talking about tens of billions more. I cannot say whether I can get to Mr Bogaert's figures on the cost of the 32-hour week in one year, but when one speaks in 10 years' time in a maximum scenario of EUR 4.5 billion, which is not really the maximum scenario, then it is about a huge amount of money. If we look further, we also see constants in the studies that have calculated the effect of a partial lifetime extension of a limited number of nuclear power plants. They are always cheaper than those with high shares of gas. For example, Elijah is talking about about about half a billion euros difference, and EnergyVille is talking about 0.7 billion euros difference. Then the question automatically arises as to whether I find 700 million euros a year of money. Is that what you take out of the washing machine every week after a wash? Colleagues, you will remember the famous discussions on the solar panels in Flanders. The wells dug by the oversubsidisation of solar panels have led to heated debates both on this side and on the other side of the street. Former colleagues of ours have put all the warnings given to former Minister Van den Bossche on the table in these debates with large packs of paper, and they have asked whether action should be taken at that time. Everyone has been talking for years about the high cost of the solar panels story, but that dossier was about EUR 600 million per year, not EUR 700 million, at least if EnergyVille is right and Mr Belmans is not too wrong. Another example is offshore wind farms. The offshore wind farms were planned with an additional cost of around EUR 800 million per year to be borne by families and businesses. In the meantime, a lot of that money has gone by. I'll be right back on that. However, I leave it to you to determine whether the solar panel debt was change, just like the offshore subsidy, as it was originally planned. What do we read today about these costs in the prepared texts? There is little about these costs in the texts. In the meantime, everyone may have the lyrics. To whom she does not have, I report that they are currently on the web site of a large French-language newspaper. So I'm assuming that everyone knows what's literally in it. There is a passage in which it is stated that an energy standard must be established. At the end of 2018 we will study the state of our energy bills. In the course of 2019 there will be an energy standard. A little further, it is about safeguarding the competitiveness of businesses and SMEs as far as possible and leaving citizens' purchasing power intact. I do not find any further figures in the document on purchasing power and competitiveness in the texts. It doesn't say who's gonna pay the costs either. When I follow the text, the invoice does not go to the citizens. The invoice doesn't go to the companies either. The committee's report on Minister Marghem's policy paper states that the invoice does not go to the government either. This is financed entirely privately. Dear people, I believe that the private sector is all of us. That's you and me; that's the citizens and the businesses. I honestly confess that I don't believe in towering costs, which then mysteriously disappear. They do not go to companies, they do not go to families and they do not go to the government. One can promise heaven and some will believe it. However, it cannot be said that it costs a lot more, and then that nobody will have to pay for it. At the Energy Week, Germany was at least clear about the story. The policy makers argued that the German industry was too sensitive and that they would therefore not allow that industry to pay. The industry didn't get anything from the invoice to pay. It would be the citizens who should be coughing up the extra costs. It was assumed that this would cost some EUR 60 per family. It turned out to be 120 euros at the end of the ride, but they were at least as honest to decide who got the invoice eventually. We do not make a choice today. Sometimes, when I read the document, it seems as if those costs do not exist at all. It is very clear that, if we take a decision today, the opening of the new gas plants, however many it may be, will suddenly appear in 2025. After all, the gas plants do not come on their own. This is clear from everything that has been written about it by several professors and authorities. We need a lot of subsidies to build these plants. This invoice is then suddenly on behalf of the citizen and the companies. We've seen that before at the Freya invoices. Today people say that there are no costs and present the invoice ten years later, which is not a good thing for us. In addition, costs can be reduced if the last two nuclear power stations are kept open longer. By the way, is it realistic to build the gas plants within the strict deadline? First there is the problem of subsidies. They do need a lot of money to build them. They can only come when Europe gives the green light. Then the route for the permits and construction starts. There are already a number of production permits, but environmental permits, building permits, environmental permits and that's all not so obvious, especially since we've heard that story before. Under the impetus of former colleague Wathelet, there was a call for tenders a few years ago. At that time there were two tenderers with difficulty. You must have noticed who they were. None of the companies registered there had any production in that country at that time. Why was that? They would open a new gas plant, but it would then price the other gas plants from the market. So how do we get to nine new power stations? That's a big challenge for me, isn't it? In addition, the scenario in the texts of the four ministers has not been taken into account by any professor. The day before yesterday, Elia gave a statement on that scenario. Last week it was already in Le Soir. We are talking about 8 gigawatts of solar panels, 4.2 gigawatts of windmills on land and 4 gigawatts of windmills at sea. Strangely enough, they also came out at less gas plants than Elijah himself calculated. It is difficult to regard that as substantiated. Whoever was present at the hearing could hear Elijah's disappointment. Elijah thought it was a reasonable punishment, should anyone be able to calculate this better than the cot manager, without using tables or having no idea of the necessary capacity. A third aspect concerns sustainability. Of course, the new plants will also emit CO2. Again, Elijah says that in a maximum scenario, this is about about 7 to 8 million tonnes of CO2 per year. These emissions are in the emissions trading system and therefore do not have to be charged for the Belgian targets; we all know that. But as far as I know, there are no two types of CO2. The CO2 from the gas plants is no more holy than the CO22 from our diesel cars, petrol cars or coal stoves. In the same logic, we could all claim that CO2 from the German and Danish coal plants is not a problem at all. That's cool CO2, that's good CO2. However, we consider that to be a problem. At the Bonn climate conference, we rightly approved the Powering Past Coal Alliance because we consider it important. I congratulate the Minister for this support, because it has been far too long since been declared sacred to the Energy Week, but forgetting that 40% of coal and lignite plants are running for this purpose. I also noticed that there was no representative of the German government there. The name of the Germans is not with that Alliance. I am very sorry about that. I can only congratulate the Danish Government because it has dared to take that step. That document asked only to close the coal plants by 2030, unless they are equipped with a carbon capture and storage. That's not even such a huge challenge. But in Germany they like to continue with coal until 2040 and even 2045. I don't think that's a good thing. If we add that up, 10 years more CO2, that's 70 to 80 million tonnes of CO2 extra. Is that the road we want to take? Is that the way forward? Yesterday there were studies in the Flemish Parliament which predict that emissions will fall by 4% in a complete system storage. Four percent. I thought we were planning a lot more. I thought we needed 40 percent figures. I thought we promised in a KB that we would go to 80 to 95 percent reduction in CO2. However, it seems that 4% is sometimes good enough. These three aspects make it very difficult for our party to take the document that is now circulating as a guide to the great way forward. I have heard here from a number of opposition parties that it seems that no questions should be asked. There are even those with clenched fists who say that one should stop asking questions and just do so. I have a problem with that. If we cannot ask questions about security of supply or about affordability, what are we still doing? We, as a party, will indeed say no to that document. No, we will not approve the text as it stands. More support is needed. There's got to be more to it than what's being written right now. We need to be clear about the costs and scenario in which we play. How much billion will it be about? More importantly, who's gonna pay for that?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u76	Mr. Wollants, excuse me for interrupting. I am a little amazed at what is happening here and the inertia on the benches of the majority is calling me even more. You are busy disposing, point after point, of the content of the Energy Pact. I heard what the Prime Minister said earlier in the gallery. I see that no parliamentarian from the other three parties of the majority is reacting and I wonder in which world we live here! The minister listens carefully, doesn't look disturbed. I find this quite challenging. I'm not attacking you, minister. I'm trying to defend the content of this pact. For 48 hours, both of them in this government have torn themselves apart on the content of the Energy Pact, on the crucial issue of the exit of nuclear power. Energy ministers, including Minister Marghem and Minister Cucke, have clearly marked the main principles of the Energy Pact. It wasn't done in two shots of potting. I think, unlike you, this is the result of serious work. And I see you're dismantling the content one point after the other. Are you still part of this government? Can I still believe Mrs Marghem and the other energy ministers when they say they stand behind this energy pact? Unlike you, they've worked hard. I only have two minutes. So I cannot develop every point, but the fact is that here you are disloyal to your own government. I also note the lack of reactions on the benches of the majority. I wonder where we are and whether there is still a government, despite the facade presented to us by the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u77	The minister will answer in a few moments. Could you conclude, Mr Wollants?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u78	Mr President, I would first like to reply to Mrs Fonck. Then I'll come to my conclusion. Mrs Fonck, just now and yesterday, almost every opposition party referred to me or my party and asked why we are doing what we are doing. Well, I have answered you why we do that, why we stand up for affordability, security of supply and so on.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u79	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u80	Mrs Temmerman, quite clearly, I mentioned the billions. If you don't want to care about Elia, EnergyVille or Itinera anymore, then it's easy, because then you can decide now, as you move the costs to the next generation. That way, it's gonna be a very easy story. The costs of an extension of the opening period are also included in those studies. During the explanatory statement by representatives of Elia, a nice graph was shown to show the difference between the gas plants and the extended opening time of two nuclear power plants. The two nuclear power plants scored a lot better. In the meantime, we have to note that many people are moving in our direction. I refer to business people, such as VBO, Voka, port, Essenscia and so on. It concerns employers who provide tens of thousands of jobs. In the committee's report on the policy paper, you can read that a lot of people have stood up for it. We continue to stand up for those jobs and for a realistic story. I am therefore pleased that the Prime Minister has taken the right steps today by saying that the documents need to be substantiated. Studies should demonstrate how much a core exit would cost. A decision can then be made when the costs are known and then the right decision can be made. With this government, we have already been able to reduce the invoice by EUR 5 billion, which is very good work. The work needs to be continued. That 5 billion must not be replaced by other billions. That's what this is about. That is why we will continue to stand up for businesses, families and employment. We are asking for well-founded work and I understand that the government supports our question, so I think we are on the right track.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u81	Mr President, I am going to speak from my bench because I think that the rather technical intervention that I had planned to do is no longer appropriate. Earlier, we saw the Prime Minister in a show as he knows how to do, trying to save appearances by delivering a double speech: maintaining the 2025 target and at the same time finding that his government could not reach agreement on the Energy Pact. That was earlier, but now we have the clarity, the coldness of the N-VA speech. That is something else - you will agree, ladies and gentlemen, whether you are in the majority or in the opposition - than what the Prime Minister said earlier. So I will reserve what I had planned to say to let the minister first respond to this attack in good standing by one of the government's partners. Let it express itself in the face of this fundamental questioning, both of the work it has done and of the prospects in which we find ourselves in relation to the exit from nuclear power. Just now, some of us could still believe that there was ambiguity in the Prime Minister's remarks and that it was "one or the other," that everyone would choose their own reading of the Prime Minister's response. But now, I think things are being said clearly, credibly. Minister, are we going out of nuclear power in 2025, yes or no? I have no other question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u82	The minister will answer you in a few moments, but let us first listen to another speaker, Mr Carcaci.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u83	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the general energy policy note provides for the creation of a framework for the transition to a low-carbon society. It also provides for security of supply of electricity. The government agreement provides for the introduction of an energy standard to maintain a competitive energy price for businesses. All these processes should have been on their way for a long time. For by 2022, the first nuclear unit should, according to the law, cease production, which will result in a direct loss of production of 1,006 MW. The closure of the other six nuclear power plants is planned in the wake of 2022. We are therefore faced with a flagrant lack of political vision. I understand the position of the N-VA which claims to be unfavourable to the release of nuclear power. Even the French Minister of Energy, the famous Nicolas Hulot, modulates his position. To get out of nuclear power completely is to deprive ourselves of a production of about 6,000 MW, or half of our needs. In fact, the Elia report envisages the construction of gas-fired power plants for a total production of 3,600 MW. Where will we find the difference? Minister, even your colleague, Minister Cricke, goes further. According to him, 2,700 MW would be sufficient. Apparently, we don't have the same calculator! In addition, you are aware that a full nuclear release would increase CO2 emissions by up to 50%. Moving towards a low-carbon society is an already missed appointment. Moreover, how can we guarantee the stability of the price of electricity if we have to import it? How can security of supply be guaranteed? Let's not talk about wind, because it can only be a very weak part of a coherent energy plan. Offshore wind can only continue if it does not damage the landscapes of the North Sea, which is already the case in many places in Wallonia. We know that the demand for electricity will increase very significantly with the arrival of hybrid or even full electric car fleet. As far as renewable energy is concerned, each country has its own specific characteristics. For example, Norway can produce by hydropower. Sweden combines nuclear and hydropower. In Belgium, we have no other alternative at least to be able to meet our needs. We must maintain a significant share of electricity generation through nuclear power, as concluded by the 2030 Energy Commission, while having a strategic vision, providing for the replacement of old nuclear power plants with new generation ones and for the construction of gas-fired power plants. This is the only alternative we have to maintain a stable price of our energy. Investors would be reassured and our fellow citizens would be reassured. Our nuclear units aren't that old. They are between 32 and 42 years old. They are very well maintained and monitored at all times. Moreover, it is utopian to believe and above all to make our fellow citizens believe that we will be able to dispense with the energy produced by nuclear energy without having unpleasant returns. We will have no choice but to import electricity, which will have an impact on the final bill. Currently, Belgian electricity is produced more than 50% by nuclear power and about 30% by fossil fuel. Wind energy is barely 10%. It seems to me that setting up wind fields everywhere would fill the absence of nuclear power is intellectual dishonesty. In any case, we would no longer be able to meet our commitments in terms of CO2 emissions. If I make a small ratio, for 1 kWh produced, wind emits 11 g of CO2, nuclear 12 g, solar panels 27 g, gas power plants 490 g and coal power plants 820 g. These are the official figures published in the Nuclear Forum. We also note that in Europe, the countries that produce their electricity through nuclear power plants are the most CO2 friendly. Germany, which has emerged from nuclear power, is the third country producing CO2 in the same way as Italy and Portugal. Let us not talk about Poland, which is by far in the lead with its coal-fired power plants. Germany alone emits almost three times the amount of CO2 in Belgium. We will therefore be faced with a dilemma: getting out of nuclear power or failing to meet our CO2 emission commitments. In any case, the citizen will again be the milk cow, not to mention the disinterest of investors in our country. The Prime Minister, in his oral questions, reiterated his commitment to four key priorities. When we leave nuclear power, three of these priorities are not as obvious as the proponents of renewable energy would suggest. In conclusion, the People's Party refuses to engage the state in the footsteps of Wallonia with its photovoltaic plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u84	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I did not really intend to take the floor in plenary because we had a very good and constructive discussion in committee on the energy policy paper and budget. The discussion of the budget and the policy paper is what is on the agenda here. When listening to Mr Wollants' speech, it seemed as if we had already entered another debate, because in fact he said very little about the budget and the policy paper, but it was about the energy vision and the Energy Pact, which was a bit surprising. I want to be very clear. CD&V fully supports the coalition chord and the core exit in 2025. That is still our vision, and that must be the starting point of the energy vision and the Energy Pact. Let there be no doubt about that. The vision expressed by the four energy ministers is a very valuable document. It is the first time that such a note has been written, that there is consensus between the four ministers. We think that is very important. That's a very good step. It is very important that we continue to do so. The items that Mr Wollants has put forward are items that we fully agree with, security of supply, sustainability and affordability. I therefore find Mr Wollants' speech very strange. We are loyal to the coalition agreement. We have just heard the Prime Minister very clearly and we will ensure that it is implemented in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u85	Are there any fellow Members who would like to speak?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u86	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Nollet, first of all, I am responding to your sentence. I don't feel quickly attacked and I like fighting. Moreover, contrary to what has often been claimed by you, I highly respect Parliament. I am at his disposal to answer questions, even when they are out of the question. I've had dozens of times to answer your questions that were out of the question. I am still doing this today, with the permission of the President. It is therefore not a question of a general energy policy note but of an energy vision, namely the text which was formulated on the basis of an agreement concluded between the four energy ministers of that country. First of all, a very important reminder: only the federal government is competent for security of supply. As regards sustainability and the fight against global warming, on the one hand, and the affordability and affordability of citizens and businesses, on the other hand, the federal government exercises its powers with the Regions. It is therefore not foolish today to foresee a deepening of the figures which have been the support of the vision that we have developed together. These figures do not appear in the vision. I'll give it to you. Only energy growth figures in the various energy segments appear, but the financial figures that are linked to these objectives, to these ambitions do not yet appear. We will make them appear in consultation in accordance with our institutional framework, each for its own competences. As far as the federal government is concerned, as the Prime Minister very clearly pointed out earlier, we are leaving nuclear power in 2025. Federal law provides for this. As far as the regions are concerned, they have made this very clear: they are part of the federal law and, through the reflections they have developed in consultation with the federal government to formulate the representation you have in front of you, very clearly foresee the release of nuclear power in 2025. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, I am not going, as in Germany – even the NV-A would not agree – to launch the creation of coal-fired power plants to compensate for the release of nuclear power. Especially since Belgium has joined a high-level coalition against fossil coal energy. We're not going to make oil power plants either. Nobody makes big oil generators anymore. So I don't have a lot of possibilities. We need to be consistent. Each solution has consequences that must be accepted. We will therefore have to increase the number of gas-fired power stations in our territory. Mr Wollants, you mentioned some important studies earlier. But the CREG gave a little detail at last week's auditions. I will only quote Elia's study and the answers to it from CREG. It is on the basis of this study that the vision of the four energy ministers has been developed. Elia's talking about nine gas plants. But according to CREG, Elia forgets to take into account the gas plants already present in our territory and which can be extended. The life of a gas power plant is 25 to 30 years. That's an average. These plants, with the strategic reserve we know, total an installed capacity of 4,346 megawatts, 4.3 Gigawatts. To reach the 6 Gigawatts, 1.7 new gas plants would still have to be installed. I have indeed been concerned about the figures. I didn't get to Kern this morning without numbers. No excessive impatience! I know your reactivity, your passion in the debate, but I'm going to give orders of magnitude, so we can start the discussion. First of all, it should be noted that for 1,000 megawatts, the cost of gas-fired power plants operating in the strategic reserve amounts to EUR 28 million per year. If I consider the cost of the gas plants that would have to be built in addition to those that already exist - initially, the construction of four gas plants would seem, relevant and reasonable - I get a cost per gigawatt of installed power of one billion. For example, for four gas-fired power plants from 400 to 500 megawatts, this represents about 500 million. However, you know very well, Mr Wollants, ladies and gentlemen - enough has been discussed, which has allowed me to deepen my figures and my knowledge - that the extension of nuclear power plants in our country represents a cost of around EUR 100 million per year. So, compared to the cost of an existing gas power plant of the same power, i.e. EUR 28 million per year, there is a clear difference. I will not confront you, because I do not want to create discussions in the debate that are not appropriate, to talk to you about the cost of a new nuclear power plant in relation to a new gas plant. Therefore, I believe that the remark made by CREG in relation to Elia is extremely relevant. With existing gas-fired power plants and some high-performance additional gas-fired power plants, we could, in terms of affordability, be competitive with the cost of extending nuclear power plants. As far as CO2 is concerned, you can imagine that I have spoken of it extensively. You know my passion; it is at least equal to yours.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u87	She's legendary.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u88	Thank you, Mr. Cheron. I have, of course, told my colleagues that this is all very well, but that they will have to make considerable efforts in terms of their energy efficiency and also electrification of mobility skills. They alone are competent at the regional level and I give them enough money, in accordance with the allocation of ETS auctions through the agreement burden sharing for the years 2013-2020, in order to carry out very effective policies, very relevant to the energy efficiency of buildings and electrification of mobility. These are the two fundamental elements for considering, with a major leverage effect, the reduction of CO2 in our atmosphere. They said: "Of course, Mrs. Marghem. We will compensate for the additional CO2 produced by gas-fired power plants - which form the basis of our country's security of supply for consumers and businesses and enable us to fulfil our obligations to the federal law of exit from nuclear energy – through a very proactive policy of energy efficiency and electrification of mobility."
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u89	Don't laugh, Mr. Wollants!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u90	So all this has been exchanged in order to give shape to this vision. That is my answer to Mr Wollants! I now turn to the other speakers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u91	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u92	The other speakers, Mr Cheron! It is quite normal, and you will agree with me, that parliamentarians should ask questions, especially when they are in front of a text which is the beginning of a process and which is not yet – contrary to what some have said a little too quickly – a pact, because it will only be one – as its name says: "Energy Pact" – when all the governments of that country have approved the text. To this end, the federal government has sought, in accordance with its jurisdiction, to further examine the figures for the installation of gas-fired power plants and the scenarios proposed by the Ministers of Energy. Similarly, this government wants the federal and the regions to be able – on the basis of their common competences, which relate to citizens' and businesses' bills as well as CO2 emissions – to draw up figures so that the foundation of their programme is validated by all the governments of this country. I care so much, so that I will be extremely on the ball and willing to convince all my counterparts. In fact, not only must this document be carried by the four governments representing the entire population and the sensitivities of the country, but it must also be accessible to our citizens and businesses, credible and based on figures. That is why, in the context of the work of deepening the figures and of the phase which consists of making them emerge in the text - they are not visible to you, because they lie in the hands of each of the ministers concerned - we will re-examine a selective and relevant round of consultations with the stakeholders in order to verify our assumptions and to make this document extremely robust. In this way, the four governments of that country will be able to validate this text, which in doing so will become the Energy Pact. This is the beginning of an energy policy for 2030 and 2050, which we have long expected and which will result from laws, decrees, cooperation agreements, political impulses for the energy transformation of our economy and society.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u93	Thank you, Minister, we have heard some of the arguments on which you have based your answers. Of course, some of the hypotheses you put forward are strongly contradicted, among others by Elijah. At the hearing, the proposal to extend the old gas plants was carefully analysed by Elia. I'm not here to choose who's right, the CREG or Elia. I can only observe that they both bring a very different story and that Elijah pointed out in his slides that due to the low efficiency of the gas plant, they will later enter the merit order curve and thus be addressed later, and that these will lead to higher market prices in the event of congestion. In this way one would spend more than if one opts for new power stations. I will only give you what Elijah has come to say very clearly in our committee. Elia, of course, reckons that the 1 or 2 gigawatts that are in the tables in case of capacity loss abroad, have to be picked up somewhere. So there are still a few steps to be taken in this respect to bring everyone on the same footing. You can say that the CREG is right and that that is the end of the matter. But I'd like to know exactly what it's like and what the exact consequences are. The same applies to the strategic reserve. A strategic reserve is super cheap as long as one does not have to use it. However, the disadvantage of a strategic reserve is that it does not start working until market prices exceed EUR 3 000 per megawatt hour. That's one of the downsides. Depending on how one sees the story, this can make a difference in terms of support costs, which then returns to the story of the market price. That's what I'm worried about, Madam Secretary. It is true that there should be additional figures on this issue. I see that you have the ambition to deliver those figures and to sit down with the stakeholders to try to remove their concerns. I've already mentioned those concerns. Professor Ernst of the University of Liège has also expressed a number of concerns. He talks about a price increase of more than 100 euros per family per year. I want to know what the numbers are actually saying. You state that you will not do what is being done in Germany. I do not know whether the same applies to the distribution of costs. As regards the energy standard, on the occasion of the discussion of your policy paper, several people of majority and opposition have said that they are disappointed because there is too little going on in comparison with the costs of companies. They are disappointed because SMEs are already paying a lot more. Mr de Lamotte spoke about this in committee. That is why I call for a thorough calculation and clarity. If these companies say at that time that they are exceeding a threshold, because we are already a lot higher than France, the Netherlands and Germany, then we have a problem in terms of investment, and we would not want that at all, and neither do you, I think.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u94	Mr. Chair, Madam Minister, you have highlighted cost figures that are interesting and you have compared scenarios between the extension of nuclear power with other solutions. You even said that we could experience a reduction in the cost. I also think that if we take all the elements into consideration, we could have a reduction in the cost. Mr Wollants told us about the risk of an increase in the bill of EUR 100. You did not speak on this subject. I would like you to reassure us that what Mr Wollants points out does not correspond to the figures of the Covenant's proposals. You must reassure all those who have heard this number and who wonder whether what the N-VA says is correct or not. This is an element that enables them to state today that your Covenant is not complete. [[I heard your answer.]] I think you are right when you say that from a macro-economic point of view, the balance sheet can be interesting, but you must be able to reassure the public about the bill. Can you answer us on this aspect of the problem so that we have a clear picture of the situation? You can also tell us that perhaps the figures quoted by Mr Wollants are correct. I would like you to assure us that what you proposed does not correspond to what Mr Wollants said.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u95	Mr President, I shall reply first to Mr Wollants and then to Mr Nollet. As regards the elements put forward by Mr Wollants on gas-fired power stations and on the Elia report which interacted with the CREG during the committee, it is important to know, as the answers are not yet definitive, that certain gas-fired power stations present in our territory can be made more efficient and can be invested in the same way as all technical infrastructures. Moreover, the new gas power plants will be hyper-performing since all these technical infrastructures have a limited duration of view – which reminds us of excellent debates – and that it will be necessary for the park to remain young enough to be efficient in the face of new technologies and new requirements in terms of costs and CO2 emissions. It's a first thing. The second is the energy standard. I've been working on it for weeks and months, as well as the rest. This has enabled me to move forward quickly in the proposals for work with my regional colleagues on the formulation of this vision. In this context, you have seen clearly in the text of the vision that we were talking not only about the energy standard, but also about carbon pricing. With regard to the energy standard, I have launched several studies, as I explained to you in committee, which will be completed in early 2018 and will allow me to draw up a proposal for a standard with which I will come to the federal government. This standard will allow our companies to remain competitive with electricity prices in neighbouring countries. On carbon pricing, the national debate that I launched in early 2017 will end with the workshops that were launched in December. I will obtain the conclusions before the end of the first half of 2018. This is the pace of work of all stakeholders. I can't go any faster. Carbon pricing is one of the elements that allows you to look at the whole energy policy in a more global way. From the moment you have the valorization of all CO2 emissions and the internalisation of CO2 into costs, you can better orient your policies and you can be more incentive to orient citizens and businesses to different energy sources than we traditionally know. This means – and it was pointed out by Professor Albrecht, one of the authors of the studies on which we relied – that it is not certain that in 2035 the gas will not have become, because of this, so expensive that it became unprofitable to build gas plants. One day, fossil fuels will no longer be part of our energy mix. When? I don't know, but one day it will. If we, like France and Quebec – which I recently met with the Minister of the Environment – are getting a carbon pricing system that works well (in Quebec, since 2014), which creates employment opportunities and economic development, and if the price of gas becomes so expensive that it will no longer be profitable to build gas-fired power plants in 2035, so much as to build them now, as long as the conditions are favourable. I don't hide that if we have to do this, we also need the merit order to evolve. As the nuclear power plants exit, the merit order will evolve. The support that we should initially give to this energy – I would remind you that we are also systematically doing so for renewable energy – will disappear in favour of a self-sufficient production structure and stock. That's the plan. As far as the 100 euros are concerned, Mr. Nollet, I think you're very amusing. Mr. Wollants never asked me to contradict your numbers. He never told me: "It worries people to hear Mr. Nollet say such numbers. Madam Minister, please immediately bulwark your body to explain to the public that all these figures are only vulgar slogans and coarse cartoons that, in reality, are intended solely to scare people." You also make extensive use of this means, Mr. Nollet. You did it for weeks and months, throughout the whole nuclear debate. I still recall this: why did we extend Doel 1 and Doel 2? In this case, you were like a fish in the water, to the point that at some point, I thought you were going to drown there, so much fun was this file. Why did we do that? Because we wanted to prevent our country from running out of electricity supply; and we wanted to have the necessary comfort, in terms of security of supply, that is, no longer having this concern... [[Brouhahaha]] Do you mind if I talk? We wanted to have the necessary comfort to imagine, design and realize the starting point for the energy transformation of our economy and society. We did. But at that time, what did I not hear in terms of numbers that were scary? Mr. Wollants never came by saying: "Madame Marghem, help, you have to explain to people why all of Mr. Nollet's figures are really exaggerated, terrible slogans. People should not be afraid because of this." Do not use your old recipes, turning them around like old socks, to make me intervene on a file where, I remind you, you did not listen well! You want numbers. I need to consult with other stakeholders, as the bill of citizens and businesses depends on shared powers between the Regions and the federal government. Therefore, it has been entirely legitimate, in the leadership of a member of this majority, to solicit, have or see these figures emerge and to ask that the work be accessible to everyone. So give me a little time and I'll come back to you to discuss all these figures in committee up to the smallest detail. Of course, we will have an opportunity to talk about it extensively, because I have always told you that I am very much in agreement to discuss the Energy Pact with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u96	Thank you, Madam Minister. We will hear Mr. Nollet and then Mr. Carcaci.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u97	Two things, Madam Minister. First, on carbon pricing. Am I wrong or is it explicitly stated in your Pact that you are going to set up this carbon pricing in Belgium for non-ETS sectors? That's my first question. Second, you say, "Give me time." Two days ago, I heard you say on the radio that the Pact will be adopted by the end of 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u98	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u99	You will listen to the sounds again, all this is accessible thanks to modern technologies! And today, Madam Minister, let us all agree and give us the date on which you will propose the final, quantified, consolidated version of the Pact! Since your previous commitment no longer holds, since the commitment of the government policy statement, which said at the end of 2015, is no longer – and for a long time! –, what is the date today when you will return with a "Pact"? Because it's a little easy to say two days ago: "It's for the end of 2017." And it's just a few parliamentarians who speak on their side, they're pretty isolated. Today, you took the government wall. There is no agreement within the government, but there is a need – not for the opposition, not for "Nollet" as you say, but for the actors in the energy transition – to see clearly on your calendar. Because they are actors who commit themselves financially and need clarity on the timetable without having any on the objectives, obviously swept away this morning at the level of Kern.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u100	Mr. Nollet, I know you like shock formulas. All soundtracks can be ironed, I have always said that the four energy ministers have developed a vision that they would pass on for validation to their respective governments in order to cement the pact. I'm confident! We know that the N-VA does not agree and that parliamentarians speak on this. So I approved. I'm going to meet with the N-VA executive as part of the Kern and I'm confident that I can convince them of the robustness of the vision. This is not the case for a few days. Why did we have to wait two years to present this vision that has the merit of existing, you will admit? The four energy ministers who had put forward that it would be done before the end of 2017 kept their word and realized this document that you know. Why did two years go by between the federal government agreement and the work of the four energy ministers? Because – and I have already explained it many times – regional governments demanded, loud and clear, to collect money from ETS auction quotas before initiating any discussion on energy visions. It is for this reason that with the money I send them annually – I sent this money for the period 2013-2016 and, from now on, it will be annual – they have everything in hand to pursue a very proactive energy policy, especially in non-ETS, in the energy efficiency of buildings and the electrification of transport. Carbon pricing is a reflection since everything that is emissions from companies is under the cupola of the European ETS market – which deserves to be reformed. Companies are also demanding because those who are virtuous do not want to pay for those who are not – it makes sense. But as far as the non-ETS is concerned, there's nothing yet. As a result, I have launched a debate on non-TSS and will come back to you with its conclusions when it is completed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u101	Madam Minister, I understand how you will compensate for the lack of nuclear power generation by replacing it with gas. What you are not saying is how our country will achieve its goal of energy independence and return to a not-so-distant past where we were electricity exporters.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u102	Mr Carcaci, the energy independence of any country is a concept that evolves over time, over the course of the grouping of countries in terms of energy and energy circulation, through the physical interconnections that are put in place. As the Prime Minister recalled earlier, we recently opened a connection with Great Britain in Stevin. This is in addition to the Belgian scheme which we allowed by a legislative framework which you voted for some time ago, the Modular Offshore Grid. This is an offshore catch for our wind farms on which we negotiated a drastic reduction in support. We want the commitment we made in terms of renewables at the federal level to be respected by 2020. In total, nine wind farms will produce 2,200 MW per hour, when the wind will of course blow. We must not mix installed capacity with production, we agree. This will eventually connect with other offshore wind farms in the North Sea, our neighbours in Great Britain, Denmark, Holland, Germany, etc. The concept of energy independence follows all these developments and we have of course considered them in the context of the scenarios underlying the vision of the four regional and federal energy ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u103	Mr President, Madam Minister, I think there are still a lot of issues to debate, quite frankly. I heard your story in connection with the merit order, where you said that the gas plants can get into the merit order rather than the coal plants and the like. However, I must point out that, in order for this to happen, we are looking at the ETS system in particular, which increases the market price, so that the marginal costs of these plants fall below the market price, so that they can indeed be addressed in that order. That avoids a bit of support, but of course that part will simply go to the market price, which must also be paid. There are still a lot of things to discuss in depth in this respect, and this will certainly not be the last time. I'd like to report something. The ETS auctions are a long-term dossier. During the previous legislature, too, over majority and opposition, as well as from the Flemish government, I see Minister Peeters rightfully looking back, always indicated that these funds were paid by the companies and should return to that level as much as possible. We should not look at this too much as an un grand gift, but rather as a means put on the table for climate policy and best spent there too. Of course, that's part of the Burden Sharing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u104	Mr President, I have one final remark. Madam Minister, you say that you have opened a debate on carbon pricing. I have quoted at the bottom of page 3 of the Energy Pact which you have concluded with your regional energy ministers: there is no discussion there, it is said that a carbon pricing will be set up for non-ETS sectors. Unless there is a step backwards, I will therefore stick to what is in the pact signed two or three days ago and not to the fact that we are opening a debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u105	This is the end of this debate. I also consider the chapter on the North Sea to be closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u106	Mr Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Employment, we have had a long discussion in committee and a particularly interesting debate. I spoke about the way in which you were changing all the devices of "alternative" jobs. I call it that. I would like to take advantage of the presence with you of the minister in charge of the Independents to highlight a number of points on two tracks. Mr. Ducrame, I'm looking at you. In fact, in this alternative job scheme, the majority decided to move forward on this famous associative work; but it is not just an associative work because it also concerns work from particular to particular. There's a lot to say. First of all, on the subject of voluntary work, which falls within the competence of the federated entities, the Consultation Committee is seized and will meet on 20 December on this subject. I believe that we must, especially in relation to vulnerable people - children, people with disabilities, the elderly - set extremely strong benchmarks. This poses problems because the list of activities that had so far been provided for in a royal order has been set out in the bill. In this famous so-called associative work, one aspect concerns peer-to-peer, i.e. the work from particular to particular. When we look at this project a little bit, Mr. Minister for the Independents, there is something particularly challenging: you are putting in place unfair competition and especially in relation to the independents. I take the example of the self-employed as a complement. They pay taxes, whether it's the tax or the parafiscal component with social contributions. This allows them to obtain only a small amount of social rights. Their income is derisory, as almost 90% of the self-employed earn less than €6,000 per year of taxable income. When I see, next to that, this mechanism that will not build rights, but that will be defied, I wonder how, as minister in charge of the Independents, you can accept it. Such a system creates unfair competition. It is true that this bill has just arrived in Parliament. I wanted to take the opportunity to question you. That really raises a question. It must be possible to examine this draft in relation to different aspects. We talked in committee about community work. I would like to point out the unfair competition that you are putting in place. This will concern the self-employed, either as a complement or not. I would therefore like to hear from you on this point. In addition, you have decided to expand flexi-jobs beyond the Horeca sector. I am very much in agreement with this extension. In addition, you are acting differently since you are competing with those who accept overtime as employees. You don't plan, like in the case of Horeca, on lighter taxes. That would make sense. I am not very fond of flexi-jobs, but if you extend this system to other sectors, there can be no competition with employees who agree, under the Peeters Act, to work overtime. The three ministers are together: the Social Affairs Ministers, the Independents Ministers and the Employment Ministers; you did not have the same positions in committee on these projects. I therefore call on you to examine the coherence of these various alternative job schemes. You are putting in place both unfair competition, intra-Belgian social dumping, competition between workers, which is problematic. Within the government, review these projects through the points I'm about to highlight. I'm not against it for the pleasure of being against it. I think, for example, that for associative work, as in sports clubs, this can be interesting. On the other hand, I would like to strongly denounce the perverse effects. I ask that the government take the time to consult with the federated entities and with the various sectors concerned and thus freeze this project pending this responsible consultation. I believe that this will be beneficial, at the employment level, for the sectors concerned and for the citizens who can benefit from it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u107	Mr President, Mrs Fonck, thank you for your intervention on your questions. If you had wanted to be completely complete, you should have stressed how positive and offensive this government is for the independents. I take the bet that at the end of this Parliament, we will be able to take stock of progress on social rights for the self-employed. We will see how active the government is for the self-employed, as well as progress in financing and taxation. As far as the measure to support the collaborative economy - the EUR 6,000 - is concerned, I am surprised by the words of a centrist humanist like you. Indeed, it seemed to me that your political formation was very attached to the association and to the cultural sector. This measure we propose is intended to support these sectors, to help them and to enable certain people to benefit from income in the course of their activities. As an elected member of the Hainaut, you know that the dynamism of these sectors depends not only on volunteering but also on the participation of people in activities related to these sectors. I want to be clear about you, Mrs. Fonck. The aim will be to evaluate the project and not to freeze it, because the voluntary and cultural sectors need this oxygen to be able to continue to flourish. It's our will. We will therefore assess the situation. It is not a question of setting up a system that would unfairly compete with the self-employed. You said that a consultation committee was planned. Certain activities are obviously limited. Therefore, the objective is not to cast a shadow on the self-employed. I want to reassure you about that. In my capacity as Minister of Independents, I will look after this aspect during the evaluation. You are right: we must be able to support such activities without creating a problem of this kind. In any case, I believe that such an opportunity must be offered to this sector and to this type of collaborative economy, because we must take this phenomenon into account and avoid acting as if it did not exist. We intend to support this activity. That is why we cannot, as you call for, freeze this provision. I don't understand why you're so firm about what I consider to be an added value. With regard to flexi-jobs, whose success we have seen in the Horeca, it will be a question of whether the measure is bearing fruit. In any case, when we made the arrangements to open them to other businesses, I thought it was great, because this provision would allow for more flexibility and flexibility. In addition, and I believe that it will have a positive impact in terms of employment. We will see that in the long run. Flexi-jobs in the Horeca had been very criticized at first, but I don't think they were by you - at least I don't remember. We saw the results. Today, the sector is extremely satisfied with this measure. I therefore believe that this measure will bear fruit in other sectors.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u108	Mr President, I wish to speak after Minister Ducrame's speech. Minister, what you said on the occasion of your answer is worse than I imagined when I went through the provisions. Casual workers will replace volunteers. Volunteering is of course particularly important in the voluntary sector. Volunteering or volunteering is governed by maximum remuneration and is based on free payment with allowances and compensation. But the system envisaged applies – it seems to me – only to certain sectors. In addition, it must not compete with an voluntary sector which can use volunteers for certain benefits and an voluntary sector which will employ for x hours EUR 500 per month and EUR 6 000 per year for casual workers. So when I listen to you, the situation is more serious than the one announced in the texts. This provision is therefore particularly regrettable. Finally, I would like to address the issue of flexi-jobs extended to other contexts. I don't know if you've had a chance to talk to the merchants. I can tell you that with the flexibilisation of schedules, opening hours, small traders are not winners. Indeed, with the same staff, they will have to cover wider schedules without having more customers than before. This provision will benefit large areas, but certainly not small traders. You assert the beneficial effects of your arrangements for the voluntary sector and small traders when, in my opinion, they are adventurous and based on a reading that does not take account of reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u109	Mr President, I would like to respond to what Mrs Gerkens has just said. After all, it is precisely the small self-employed and the local shops that are so important today for the social fabric of many village centres that can get oxygen by using people flexibly. Think of the bakers and butchers who are very often open on Sunday mornings and who sometimes find it difficult to find solutions with their regular staff, who also want to be free on Sundays. Then the flexi-jobs are the ideal system for those who want to be flexible and earn a little extra money. We talk a lot with local independent entrepreneurs, Mrs Gerkens, and they are absolutely asking parties.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u110	Minister, you always make beautiful and big sentences that resituate the context. But when you are at the heart of the subject, and the devil is in the details, you are hardly heard. On flexi-jobs, I ask why they were extended with a system different from that of the Horeca sector. Special taxation and para-taxation were not provided for overtime, even though this had been expressly provided for flexi-jobs in the Horeca, in order to prevent a flexi-job worker from competing with an employee who agreed to work overtime on a voluntary basis with a reduced tax. This raises the problem of not having provided for this provision. On the famous "associative" work, which I remind you is not that as an associate, many small ASBLs will be unable to pay at any height, with a maximum of 6,000 euros per year. Compared to the free volunteering that exists in certain sectors, and which must remain free, bringing this mechanism will motivate each other to turn to the work that can be paid. The benchmarks that have been put between this new status and volunteering are insufficient, as they cause confusion. With regard to the work that can be done in this context at the non-market level, particularly in the early childhood, home-based elderly and disabled sectors, the quality of care is an important issue. This quality of care is assumed by the training of staff, and by the controls and regulations that exist at the level of the federated entities. You decide at the federal level to list these activities in the law without keeping the same beacons as those of the Communities and the Regions. They are mentioned in a number of cases, particularly in the case of early childhood, but not in other areas I have just mentioned. That's a problem. Finally, the last part concerns the self-employed. I persist and sign. It is not only my personal opinion, since all the structured actors who deal with the self-employed have clearly denounced the unfair competition that this system brings, with a significant impact. Is it worth recalling that today the cost of labour remains high in Belgium? You're setting up a zero-cost work system. You are organising unfair competition and a genuine mechanism of intra-Belgian dumping and transfer from one job to another. I find this to be a problem. Again, the benchmarks are insufficient in relation to the very clear and not negligible risk of unfair competition. We will have an opportunity to come back to this at the time of the bill's consideration. You are three ministers present. This feature is included in each of your policy notes. We had an opportunity to discuss it when you introduced them. It is a matter of concern that the answers are different; the reactions are different. This gives the impression of a lack of consideration of the perverse effects. This is reflected in the policy notes, and we will see what will happen in the discussions on the bill. The proof of all this is that you have completely ignored the views of the social partners, the voluntary partners and the Platform for Volunteering. However, the remarks were well-founded, relevant and strong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u111	Mr. President, Minister, we are moving away from the original philosophy of the 2005 Volunteer Rights Act, of which you were a co-author. You will remember that this law took at least five years to come into being, with a lot of opinions and discussions. The matter was complex, but at the time there was almost unanimous support from Parliament for this law on the rights of volunteers, including the issue of defrayals. One of the delicate points was the opinion of the National Labour Council. Both employers and workers feared, no doubt unfairly at the time, that the volunteers' benefits would avoid paid employment if they received compensation. We have discussed this at length. One of the points was to define whether the spirit of volunteering, volunteerism, was free of charge, which is offered free of charge to an association for a project. To a certain extent, the law accepts that there is a payment, i.e. a kind of compensation for what some volunteers in certain associations could receive for 40 days of benefits per year with a maximum of 1,300 euros. So it is something very limited that has so far given satisfaction. Some volunteers could be paid actual costs on proofs or benefit from an annual package. If we increase this package to 5 000 or 6 000 euros a year, we are in a completely different context. Mrs De Block, I remember that at the time, as an Open Vld Member of Parliament who signed this bill, you refused to accept the amendments which increased this payment to EUR 5,000 or EUR 6,000 and which are now part of the government's plans. This is a 180-degree shift from this original law. I recall that the law was to be evaluated after ten years, in 2015. This evaluation has never really taken place, in any case not with Parliament, as I have asked several times in parliamentary questions. I confirm that this proposed new mechanism scares small independents and traders. We do not necessarily hear the same. Some may be happy and others may not. I am still afraid that this will compete with the merchant sector, the traders, the self-employed. Therefore, we do not want to be part of this philosophy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u112	Mr Delizée, we were indeed the driving forces behind the voluntary law at the time, together with other colleagues. This is not just about voluntary work, but more about voluntary work, which is also indicated in the opinion of the Supreme Court on the work in the so-called grey zone, the semi-global zone or the association work for which compensation is paid. I am thinking of sports associations and youth trainers. Now that's a huge black circuit. We offer the possibility of providing a limited remuneration per year for those who make an effort, for example for the coaching of young children in sports and other activities. The Red Cross rightly sent this tweet "Do not confuse association work with volunteer work." Volunteering is an engagement from a community, a group, such as the Red Cross. This work is done on the basis of a commitment. They may be paid a fee, but they are certainly not paid per hour. I'd like to keep those cases separate. It would please you, should you do the same, because you speak with knowledge. In any case, you did that years ago.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u113	I assume that this chapter can be closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u114	Miss Van Camp has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u115	Mr President, Minister, we have had extensive discussions in committee on the budget and the policy paper. I shall therefore confine myself here to the essence of our speech. That is still the case that the public funds spent in this country on health are quite high, over 8% of GDP. If we compare that to the OECD group, we're in the top ten. It is important to note, however, that these expenditures increase year after year, despite what was claimed here by the PS among others. At the same time, however, according to the same OECD report, the costs that people have to pay out of their own pockets also increase slightly year after year. That puts us in the middle of the OECD group. Our mission as policy makers is then very clear, especially to keep our healthcare affordable. At the same time, we also have a huge public debt. It has to be said that if previous governments that had not made it, we could now easily spend half of our budget on health, not only on our sick and patients, but also on our healthcare providers. It is also in that light that the debate must certainly be conducted. What is important in the debate on the cost of health care is certainly the affordability for the citizen himself, but also the quality that we collectively get in place for that. I believe that we should consider this issue in particular in this Gremium. All reports point in the same direction. I am thinking, for example, of the KCE, Itinera, OECD and other European studies. They show that we have quite high spending on our health care without actually getting what one would expect to get an excellent quality of care for our patients instead. The studies in question even literally conclude that this is the problem. They also give the solutions on a platter. It's the same thing every time. The resources must be used more efficiently. That has really become the N-VA's stick horse, a same or higher quality of care for the same or a lower budget so that both the patient and society saves. It is only in this way that funds released can be used for new needs of care. I am thinking of new cancer therapies, hearing aids, dental care, early-stage support for diabetes or prevention. Only in this way will resources be made available to reinvest in our health care in order to reap the benefits in the long term, for example by focusing more on prevention. In this context, I am thinking of our care staff, who really crave upgrading in various areas. I am thinking, for example, of the number of nurses at the patient's bed in this country. That number is a lot lower than in similar countries. I am thinking, for example, of the fees in home care, which are really low in various areas. For example, for an injection a home nurse gets about 5 euros, which doesn't even cover the material and the travel costs, let alone the operation itself. We now see that this path is finally being pursued by the government and that therefore means are being released to invest in new needs for care. I am picking out one that is really important to our group. That's the psychologist. At last steps are being taken to pay back the visit to the psychologist for the first time in years, a proposal from my party mate Renate Hufkens. The only comment from the left on all that is that it should have been a bit more and that it should have been a bit faster. I ask them in response to what I asked yesterday at the banks, including Mr Laaouej: why did you not do that when your party had that minister's post in your hands for so long? Also important steps are being taken for hospital networks to pool expertise and thus offer better quality care to patients, but also to reduce costs for patients and society. The recipes of the left in the past, as we have known them for a long time, have always been to pass the invoice and make blind linear savings, which has made a lot of distortions today. I am thinking, among other things, of the inadequate budget for hospitals, which had to be compensated by a whole system of payments, which in turn led to overconsumption. I am really pleased that the current government has broken with this method and that structural reforms are being pursued for the first time in order to better organise our care. I am talking about a reform of hospital funding with Royal Decree No. 78, recalibrate the nomenclature and the lake on the first line. It is true that what has grown very unevenly in recent years is difficult to correct in one legislative period. For us and for everyone who is good for our health care, our patients and society, it could all go a little faster, just because the sector needs it so much, the challenges are usually huge and linked to each other. A reform of hospital funding, for example, is difficult to separate from a revision of the nomenclature, a shift from financing to the first line, the Royal Decree No. 78 or the pay for quality. Madam Minister, in our enthusiasm we sometimes collide as a majority there, but in the end we have the same goal in mind, namely that we are moving quickly towards a better use of our resources for our patients and our caregivers. The fact that these recipes do work, unlike the left-wing recipes, is shown not only in all the economic parameters already set out here by several colleagues, but also in Health.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u116	We now turn around every euro twice and that has made it possible for the first time in 2018 to fully index the fees of our healthcare providers. Not least for home care, that's a huge boost. I have said what amount, for example, they will receive for an injection. Recently, in the framework of the IF-IC agreements, a premium of more than 200 euros was added to our healthcare providers in the federal care sector. As far as that is concerned, we are certainly going in the right direction. I have already referred to this affordability, and at the same time we see a lot of measures being taken to reduce medical costs for citizens. Think about the social third-payer. People with financial difficulties can now turn to their trusted GP for 1 euro and many GPs also drop the euro. Think of abolishing the pay supplements in standard rooms in day hospitals. Think also of the patent cliff, which has already reduced over 1 000 medicines in price, unlike the few examples picked up by the opposition. Let me list the figures again. That's why I brought them. At the beginning of this year, the patent cliff that this government has taken alone saved the patient of about 10 million. Together with all the other measures, it is a question of collectively paying 30 million less out of your own pocket. Some medicines are listed here, but when I look at the price reductions, I see that it is not only the case of more than 1 000 medicines, as I said, but also of genuinely common medicines. Examples include Serotide and Symbicort in asthma, Cymbalta in depression or various cholesterol lowering agents such as Lipitor. Many people will know those medicines or know people around them, because those medications are all in the top 25 of the RIZIV. Since the beginning of this legislature, the price of medicinal products has also fallen net by 2.2 %, as shown by figures from the FPS Economy, which are slightly better substantiated than the figures quoted here by the left and which are not substantiated. This path is continued by, for example, using even more emphasis on prescribing the cheapest drug brand. The same product at a lower price ensures the same quality of care, but still means savings for patients and society. The more efficient use of resources in social security is one of our stickhorses, and it has also become the leader of this government. This is often negative with doom messages about, for example, reduced benefits and pensions. However, the reality is that the lowest pensions and benefits were raised by hundreds of euros net per year. The lowest wages have even increased by about a thousand euros net. There is a saving on the government apparatus. That's the choice we make. In concrete terms, this means tackling excesses and additional measures to reduce medical costs for patients, specifically in terms of public health. This is the course we are taking. We wish to continue with it. However, it cannot be denied that there are still many efficiency gains to be made in terms of our state structure. That structure is really very difficult to implement a homogeneous and appropriate health care policy. There are about eight ministers responsible. Prevention policy is organised at a different level and this makes it very difficult to implement a coherent policy. We also see that certain Länder score much less well. Mrs Fonck, you once said at a committee meeting that the use of antibiotics in Flanders is much higher than in Wallonia. I have requested the figures and the use of antibiotics is much higher in Wallonia. There are also more medicines used, there are too many doctors, fewer daily hospitalizations, more useless CT scans, more hospitals are in red and a lot less HPV vaccinations are given. I wonder which examples of things are going in the opposite direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u117	Mrs Van Camp, the example I gave in committee was Rilatin.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u118	Mrs Fonck, in committee you cited the example of antibiotics and that is why I asked for those figures. My question about rilatine is still ongoing. I have not yet received the figures. I would like to return to that discussion as soon as I have the figures. As has been said in committee, we do not think it is right that the federal government should continue to pay for this lack of policy, especially when it is determined how much effort we need to make available funds to our patients and our caregivers. Previous speakers, especially on the left, made a speech here with doom messages, but the polls show that the people, to whom Mrs Kitir so much likes to refer, simply do not accept fake news and reject the plea for redistribution in favour of the strongest shoulders, to which your free policy leads. They turn a blind eye to the citizens, and they simply no longer believe that. Those who are in financial difficulties today are now experiencing the fact that they can turn to the general practitioner for 1 euro, the euro that most general practitioners also drop, and now find that they no longer have to pay supplements in standard daily hospital rooms and that the price of so many medicines has fallen. It's what people feel. Finally, in 2018, our healthcare providers will feel that their fees will be fully indexed after years of blind savings, as the right path is now being followed. In the federal care sector, a premium of 200 euros will be added to the account. That is what people see, and that is something other than what you are trying to tell them, ladies and gentlemen on the left.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u119	Mr President, it was agreed that the speeches would take five minutes. I have kept to that, but I can see that almost no one is keeping to it. Has the agreement been amended in this respect, Mr President?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u120	I just got here. Trust me, I'll pay attention to speaking times.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u121	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u122	I would like to respond very briefly. I hear that certain parties, including ours, would make people believe things. When it comes to health care, that is one of our priorities. Access to care is very important. That is why we want this to be affordable for the people. I don't know if you've ever worked in practice, but I can assure you that people who go to a doctor or a pharmacist do not do that for their pleasure but because they have to. I hear quite often in discussions that there is overconsumption, so I would like to make it clear once again that for many people care is a threshold. For this reason, there is the focus of several parties, in order to make progress in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u123	Minister, I have been in committee for a long time and I am not going to repeat my presentation. For large projects, a lot of questions arise, above all from the ground. For several weeks now, there has been a lot of discussion about the coding of ID cards by home nurses. I intervened to ask for a solution to the problem of payment since mutuals had an obligation since 2015 to stop paying them in the event of no electronic coding of identity cards. I wanted us to be able to relieve the device. It doesn't make much sense to have to do an encoding every day, during each treatment. You told us you asked the mutuals to pay. I would like to convey a message that I received this morning: despite your promises and commitments, the services that a home nurse has performed since October have still not been paid for because of the system put in place! There are software problems that waste time. We are in mid-December and this problem is still unresolved despite your promises, despite the proposals for solutions. This is totally unacceptable. Minister, you need to propose solutions quickly to solve the persistent problems, even if you freeze this legal system for the time it takes. I'm calling you to move on to a lighter system. Okay to encode, but not every day at the patient's home and for every act! Madam Minister, you are not listening to me very much, but I will therefore relay – even if I go to the Conference of Presidents – the answer you will give, not only to this particular nurse, but also to all the nurses concerned. Mr. President, I have to escape! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u124	Get out of here, Mrs. Fonck! We will continue in order, with Mrs Gerkens. Five minutes maximum.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u125	Mr President, but I will take it that it is five minutes for Mrs De Block and then when Mr Ducrame returns, I will resume five minutes for him, since we have grouped different skills together in the same exchange. Minister, I will not go back to all the discussions, but it is true that sometimes, as committee chair, I do not have the opportunity to go into some matters. In particular, I would like to intervene on medical homes. Yesterday, in a short exchange, you talked about the latest study about them. You said that medical homes, on a lump sum, take care of a younger population and cost twice as much. You outlined the fact that, for the second line, it was cheaper. The results of this study indicate that, in total, INAMI's expenditures are the same. There is an increase in costs for the first line but, on the other hand, there is at least an equivalent saving in the use of hospitalisation and specialist doctors. There are indicators of quality of care such as immunization coverage, improved screening, reduced use of antibiotics, increased use of cheaper medicines, better follow-up of diabetic patients, outpatient mental health care orchestrated by medical homes and intrinsic multidisciplinarity. These elements, Minister, you will not be able to remove them from the visiting card of medical homes. I really expect the same transparency on the part of those who carried out the audit that you commissioned as presented in this study carried out by the association of mutualities. You should still hurry in this publication because the moratorium on medical homes still exists. The second element I would like to discuss with you concerns health professionals. You had announced in September 2016 the introduction of a reform on health professionals and you had put forward the idea of organizing them in the form of marguerite petals. We can meet you in part. But today, health professionals feel completely wronged. I take the example of nurses, logopeds and psychologists. Currently, the Federal Occupational Health Care Commission is reflecting on the actions authorized by clinician psychologists and orthopedagogues. The list of acts of orthopedagogues is drawn up without consulting the logopedes, although some acts are identical. In countries where orthopedagogues are recognized, there is a distinction: in orthopedagogue there is "pedagogue" and therefore they cannot perform the acts of the logopedes indefinitely. Will logopeds be associated with reflection? Will there be a difference according to the possible actions? Will the logopedes retain the autonomous exercise of their profession or will they become, in your plans, a support function for orthopedagogues? This is important because the work must also be done with these health professionals. I will stop here for my remarks concerning Mrs De Block. Mr Ducrame, I am speaking about your expertise in food safety. Yesterday, the European Commission notified its position on glyphosate, a disappointing position for Belgium since we wanted a phasing out formally expressed after the five years and transitional measures. That was not the case. However, Mr Ducrame, the government has the opportunity to go to the Court of Justice of the European Union to appeal against this decision. I am talking about this today because we have only two months and we will only meet again in January. Have you contacted your French counterparts and those from other European countries who voted against the Commission's proposal to go in this direction together? A meeting is organised tomorrow by Mr Macron or Mr Hulot. Will you participate? On the subject of neonicotinoids, we are not pleased with the texts tabled on the table, since the European Commission is proposing simply to ban the three neonicotinoids which are the subject of a moratorium, but to allow them to be grown under a greenhouse. However, all the latest studies show that when these substances are used under a greenhouse, water is heavily polluted. What position has been or will be defended by Belgium because I think this point may have been postponed? As regards endocrine disruptors, the definition proposed by the Commission remains the same, namely that only proven causal links are taken into account in the definition of disruptors. There is a withdrawal of an exception in the consideration of disruptors. This is the derogation which said that if it only concerns harmful organisms, they would be allowed. I would like clarification from you. With regard to CPAS and social integration, I would like to return to a point on which I spoke in committee, where you did not yet seem to have captured the scope of these policies. From the moment we come with casual workers, flexi-jobs and a lot of provisions like these, I really think you need to look at the students who today benefit from social integration income and among them, those who benefit from a scholarship. If they work, they are taken from the RIS to which they are entitled and are taken away even more when they are scholarship holders. This work that they do by being beneficiaries of a RIS and a scholarship not only allows them to live dignifiedly – it is not to go on vacation – but also allows them to integrate into the workplace, to be known by employers and it gives them opportunities for the future. Why penalise them while you are building a bunch of special and parallel statutes that allow people who are already working to have access to other professional activities without contributing? These, Mr President, are the few topics on which I would like answers from the ministers concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u126	Mrs Dedry, you have the floor. Your speaking time is five minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u127	Mr President, it is somewhat complicated. Who am I to challenge the Registrar's authority? He told me to sign up for the Health chapter, while I also have some recommendations for Minister Ducarme. I would like to quote two different elements. Mrs Van Camp, I am addressing you first, because I am a little tired of you trying to put me, or Ecolo-Green, in the booth of district health centres, as if we were absolutely in favour of a flat-rate payment system in medicine. That's not the point at all. However, we support all measures that can reduce the health gap and increase access to healthcare. So you shouldn't put us behind one cart or the other, because that's not right. I also fully support the proposal of the Academic Centre for General Medicine, Lieven Annemans and other health economists, who have developed a very nice model of mixed funding according to the 60-30-10 ratio. I am not talking about what model it ultimately achieves, but about how we can narrow the health gap. Mr President, both Minister Ducarme and Minister De Block are present, and it would be good if Minister Marghem were also present, and I would like to take this opportunity to address the hormone disruptors. Mr Gerkens was fully in her speech on this subject, and I will not repeat these elements. Yesterday, in the Flemish Parliament, I attended a very interesting hearing on hormone disruptors. In the Committee on Welfare of the Flemish Parliament CD&V has submitted a draft note to anchor the prevention and sensitisation of hormone disrupters. I would ask the competent federal ministers to pay absolute attention to this and to cooperate with the Länder in this respect. It is very clear that there is support for this in the Länder. We now also know that Europe is taking a mini-step and that the federal Belgium can play a leading role in this. I would like to call you to do this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u128	Colleagues, I will now give the floor to Mrs Caprasse, who will address the Minister of Health and the Minister of Pensions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u129	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will first focus on community work and then address health issues. Your project on associative work has led to a real lifting of shields from the social partners, from the Court of Auditors, from the Council of State, not to mention the reactions of volunteers. In our view, the challenge of making work work is to give a bad signal. So far, not paying taxes or contributions on income from work was illegal. To make this, even partially, acceptable, is to give a bad signal. We clearly prefer tax reform to tax suppression. It is possible to distribute the tax differently by making less contribution to the work, without exempting it. Associative work could be very expensive. The FPS Finance estimated that some 40,000 independents could switch to this new status. This would result in a loss of social contributions of €109 million and a loss of tax revenue of €42.5 million. The Court regrets that this measure which is supposed to enter into force on 1 January is not included in the general statement. In addition, voluntary work will deregulate volunteerism. At first, however, the Platform francophone du Volontariat had supported this project, but pleaded for a clear distinction between this new status and volunteerism. However, Madam Minister, you did not want to take this request into account. Volunteers are now denouncing a tote status that includes almost volunteering. Associative work will also compete with professional work. Following a survey by the NIS, it appears that 93% of the self-employed active in the sectors concerned are concerned about the risk of unfair competition, a fear shared by the UCM. According to the press at the beginning of this week, despite all these criticisms, your majority will not give up this measure, but the door will be open to consultation, which leads me to ask you a few supplementary questions, Madam Minister for Social Affairs. Who are you going to consult with, already knowing that the social partners are opposed to the measure? Is it correct that you will postpone the coming into force to February 20? The date of 1 January seems to us to be unrealistic, but on 20 February it seems to us that it is still too close. Is it true that you have decided to set the limit at EUR 500 per month instead of EUR 1 000? Finally, I will end by saying a few words about health policy, which we believe presents a permanent paradox. General objectives often appear to be the subject of consensus. Yes, there is a need to reform the hospital landscape and the funding of hospitals. Yes, we need to reform the practice of health care; yes, we need to develop evidence-based medicine and e-Health. However, the implementation of the projects is systematically the subject of serious criticism by the main stakeholders. Of course, there are still resistances to change, but here it goes further than states of soul. Too often we see problems of consultation and planning. It is often up to us that you go too fast, that the main stakeholders are not consulted or listened to, that the difficulties encountered on the ground would not be taken into account or that the voices of the North are heard more than those of the South, as for the quota of the medical supply. The introduction of the electronic prescription, which raised several questions in committee, is quite emblematic of a planning problem with a desire to go too fast while practical problems still need to be solved on the ground. I would like to give you another example which Mrs Gerkens mentioned and which I am very fond of, given my past as a logopede. The logopedia is well grounded in the health care landscape, but it does not appear to be part of the health care reform project, to the extent that the sector is concerned about its future. I met with these people and heard that despite their explicit requests, they are not associated with the activities of a working group to define clinical orthopedagogy. I am referring in particular to the Union professionnelle des logopedes francophones. In terms of definition alone, we find similarities for acts performed (prevention, diagnosis, accompaniment and care) or for the nature of the problems targeted (communication problems, learning disabilities, written or oral language). It therefore seems to us that the logopeds could usefully participate in the preparations for the reform. But why are they kept away? It seems obvious to us that they must be involved in the work. It would be an enrichment for your work. For all these and many other reasons, which I cannot speak of for lack of time, we cannot approve the general social and health policies or the budgets that accompany them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u130	Mr President, some Members have already done so, but I would like to put things to the point about what Mrs De Block said yesterday about medical homes. She said what I said was totally wrong. I shall therefore use the terms of the report. I said: "A recent study shows the advantages of medical homes. They provide quality care and are not more expensive for social security, they are cheaper for the patient; prevention policy is better, there are fewer antibiotics and more cheap drugs prescribed. Why do you stand against them?" And the minister replied, and I quote here the French translation of the summary record: "That is totally wrong. For front-line care, their cost is double and compared to a private physician, the cost of their prescriptions is also twice as high. That's what Mr. Van Hees calls it 'less expensive'. On the other hand, for second-line care, such as nursing homes, for example, medical home expenses are lower, but they are frequented by a significantly younger public, who do not yet stay in nursing homes. You can't compare apples and pears." Mrs De Block therefore arranges to separate the price between the first and the second lines, not to mention the total cost. That's what bothers her. Even in primary school, Madam Minister, I knew that 2,074 euros is less than 2,080 euros. It is true that the difference is thin, but it is less. Maybe you learned mathematics differently. Anyway, in my school, that's how we learned mathematics. On the fact that apples and pears cannot be compared, excuse me, Madam Minister, but you are completely next to the plate. The study in question took comparable samples in terms, in particular, of age. So we compared apples and apples. The main thing is to have distorted the study of the InterMutualist Agency (AIM), whose conclusions I will read: "First observation: the costs of health insurance are identical in both systems – even a little cheaper as I have just shown –. Indeed, if first line care expenses are higher in the package system, this additional cost is fully offset by savings in the second line." Even more interesting: "For patients, however, the lump-sum system is less expensive. On the one hand, there is no front-line user ticket and, on the other hand, as there are fewer second-line care and prescription drugs, the costs borne by the patient are also lower at this level." The report adds a second observation: "The results obtained on the basis of certain quality indicators are better in flat-rate centres". For example, the rate of immunization against influenza in the elderly and screening for cervical and breast cancer in women are better. The antibiotic prescriptions are more measured and better suited to the recommendations in the choice of the molecule. Cheaper versions of drugs are also more often prescribed. Finally, diabetics are better followed. Furthermore, the study confirms that medical homes offer front-line care that is widely accessible to populations that are more socially fragile" – those that are of little interest to you, Madam Minister – "and therefore more exposed to the risk of delaying care. The study concludes: "This study demonstrates that package financing has a clear place in our health care system, alongside traditional practices in practice." Of which act, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u131	We do want the resources to be used efficiently, Miss Van Camp. We score well in terms of the quality and accessibility of our health care. When it comes to cost-efficiency, we see from the European Health Consumer Index that we still have work to do, because we are only in the 12th place. For the rest, we are in first and fourth place. We must indeed focus our compass on this in order to ensure that we work cost-effectively, including in health care. There are always new needs and new things to be paid back. We want to give proper compensation to all those who work in care, such as the home nurses, midwifes and others who are on the ground. Mrs. Fonck, you spoke again about the home nurses. The sickness funds follow the situation on a daily basis. They pay out the few home nurses who still have problems with their software 90% of the money they could not otherwise receive. We've been in touch. That was a proposal from the Insurance Committee. All the health insurance funds in our country are cooperating. Meanwhile, software manufacturers are working on a solution to the technical problems. As far as medical homes are concerned, Mrs Gerkens and Mr Van Hees, we are waiting first of all for the audit ordered from KPMG, which seems to me more reliable. Indeed, the study published a few years ago, which inspired another one last month, compared about 5,000 patients treated on the front line by private doctors and in medical homes. What was the conclusion? The cost per patient was 200 euros in the first case and 400 euros in the second – but only on the first line. In the second line, this was compensated because fewer people were hospitalized in nursing homes. After extending the panel, you still have to understand why fewer people are in a medical home. According to the sample collected, they are younger. Of course, in this case, these people do not find themselves in a nursing home. To draw the conclusion that it is cheaper is based on a reasoning that is only a complacent copy-paste of your study. In any case, since these reports always come from the same side, I await the audit requested from KPMG, which complies with all the required rules. We will discuss on this basis without any problem. However, the efficiency of the relationship between the cost of medical homes and their results must be ensured. It must also be cost-effective. Mrs Gerkens and Mrs Caprasse, you asked me about orthopedagogues and logopedes. What's going on right now? Within the Federal Council for the Mental Health Care professions, a council dedicated to mental health care, which we have first installed, discussions are ongoing on the standards of recognition of orthopedagogic doctors. It is not about the tasks of orthopedagogics but about the standards of recognition of orthopedagogics. Then it seems obvious to me that the logopedists do not sit at the table with that. According to the law on the exercise of mental health care, they are not recognised as persons involved. Again, it's not about the tasks that both perform. That task definition is discussed in the revision of Royal Decree No. 78, where the quality of health care is indeed at stake. So no, the logopedists will not be invited. And so are all the others. Then one could ask the dietists if I don't know who. This is purely about the recognition of mental health professions. I'm coming to endocrine disruptors. Mrs Dedry has also spoken about this. I believe that the latter has not yet been mentioned. In Europe too, there has now been a change of opinion. We have to take all of that. In any case, this is the responsibility of the Communities in terms of prevention. The necessary contacts will therefore be established for this purpose. Then there is the consultation that will take place after 1 February on citizen-to-citizen activities in the area of childcare, helping people with disabilities and so on. It is clear that the law on the quality of health care will be valid everywhere. The necessary arrangements must also be made with the Communities. A period of seven weeks has been allocated for this, until after the crocus holiday. I look forward to that consultation which will also have to be reassuring for patients and the quality of service provided.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u132	Mr President, Mrs Gerkens' first question concerns matters related to social integration. I think the exchange in committee was quite clear about the young beneficiaries of RIS, including the students – we know that they are on the rise. But – and we have never indicated that we would not stand by the students, I think we have been clear at this level – it is more simply a matter of looking at a study that is worrying about this. Not to get us to make a decision that would keep us away from the students in question, but perhaps to give us the opportunity to make arrangements that bring these young people closer to employment. An in-depth case study conducted by the SPP Social Integration found that 30.2 per cent of the students enrolled in their studies obtained a job one year after losing their student status, compared with 23.7 per cent for those who did not attend school. This difference is indeed insufficient and it is therefore a matter of studying, together with the CPAS federations, how we can better redirect the beneficiaries of the SIIP student towards the labour market. It is not a question of twisting their arms, Mrs Gerkens, but of optimising a number of provisions by bringing these students closer to a number of services known in terms of guidance, training and job search. This point is therefore clarified. Other questions were raised by Ms Dedry and Ms Gerkens. No, Mrs Gerkens, it is not a matter of bringing an action before the European Court of Justice, but, as I said, several weeks ago on glyphosate, indicating here in plenary that the Belgian Government was willing to cooperate with the countries that wanted to "get out" of glyphosate. It wasn't just words. We have continued our contacts with Hulot, among others, with a view to establishing cooperation with these countries in the search for and development of alternatives. We're working on it. Since Belgium is an open market, not an island, and Europe has renewed the approval of glyphosate, we will have to work together. That is what we intend to do. The contacts with France in particular have been very productive and I think we can develop joint action, at least I hope. All this is still under construction, but we are not losing sight of it. In response to Mrs Dedry's questions on neonicotinoids, I can say that there was no vote. We expect an opinion from EFSA to be delivered in February and it is on the basis of this opinion that the vote will take place. The difficulty with neonicotinoids today is that they are still necessary, especially given the jaundice virus that strikes beets. Alternatives today have no positive effects. Many countries in Central Europe face this reality. It is understood that beet does not bloom and that there is no problem with the question of bees and pollination. We will be facing the debate in February. The EFSA report will inform us and help us make decisions. On endocrine disruptors, a vote was taken this Wednesday. Belgium supported the position of the European Commission. It is, in my opinion, a good decision. Indeed, the Commission's proposal relays the decision taken at the level of the European Parliament and supports the strengthening of the criteria. Both known and suspected endocrine disruptors can be identified as endocrine disruptors for humans. Derogations have been removed. In this context, we are moving in the right direction. We reached qualified majority with little margin (65.7%). Eighteen countries supported the Commission's proposal. But we just came by.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u133	Mr President, I cannot accept that the study carried out by the InterMutualist Agency (AIM) on medical homes, compared to that of KPMG, should be described as "non-serious". I think the intention and assumptions of the study are different. Therefore, the minister probably prefers KPMG's, as she shares her assumptions on which the questions asked are based. I heard that the results were made by KPMG. However, we do not have it, while we have the study of the AIM. I ask you for confirmation: has it been given, or not? The best way to operate is to analyze the health system from the medical homes to the package depending on the impact on the overall care. This is what KCE researchers, who are not farfelus or funny people, did in 2008. We will return to the subject. I think it is above all the expectations and the way of questioning that are different. Concerning endocrine disruptors, Mr. Ducrame, you read: "Substances with both proven and presumed endocrine effects will be prohibited." According to the endocrine disruptor definition, substances have both proven and suspected effects. If these two adjectives are present, and if the derogation that did not allow endocrine disruptors to be considered substances that attack only harmful organisms has been removed, then it is a good decision that has been proposed by the European Commission and you have done well to support it. In my information were not the alleged effects, but only the proven effects. If the sentence you read is the right one, it's good. Regarding neonicotinoids, I agree with you that there is a problem in Belgium with beets and chicory. This was discussed at the committee hearings. But you and Europe can take restrictive measures to ensure that, for these two cultures, authorisation can be extended. On the other hand, it is important to ban them for all other crops. I also draw your attention to greenhouse crops, which have an impact on water, which has been demonstrated by studies. As for scholarship students dependent on social integration income, you answer me while not responding. You guarantee me your willingness to bring them closer to employment and, at the same time, you do not guarantee me that you will review this scheme, which means that the student who depends on a social integration income is penalized when he finds a professional activity as a student. While the student who has income, who works for a holiday, etc., does not care about his or her situation, because he or she does not depend on an allocation from solidarity funding by the citizens. However, if you really want to bring them together, you have to give them a clear message: you are at the CPAS, you need a social integration income, you need a scholarship, if you have the courage in addition to going to work and earning a student income, you can have this student salary in addition to your social integration income and your scholarship. Similarly, you allow casual workers to earn money in addition to professional income without having to pay contributions or taxes. For me, this would be a fair attitude towards these young people. If you don't, you're destined for those who organize student work in the dark.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u134	Madam Minister, I'm taking your curve back. Yesterday you quoted the study of the InterMutualist Agency. I'm showing you that everything you said was wrong, and now you're saying that it's not that study that's important and that it's better to see KPMG's study. About the age of the sample, on the other hand, you persevere in the error by saying that the ages of the samples are different. No, not at all! These are standard samples. We compared not apples with pears, but apples with apples. As for your KPMG study - one of the Big Fours prosecuted a few years ago in Belgium for fraud, forgery and money laundering - this is clearly not an independent study! You're the one who orders it and we know that for this kind of firm, the client is king. If the client asks for something, he'll be served on a silver platter. In addition, the choice of KPMG is still particularly revealing. What is KPMG, other than tax evasion? KPMG is one of the three global players in the privatization of health care worldwide. In particular, he was at work and particularly active in Britain, to the point that The Guardian had said to describe KPMG: "It's kind of like naming Dracula to the direction of the blood bank." That's what you chose as a firm to do your medical home study! Very good choice, minister! I congratulate you! I applaud you!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u135	Mr Ducarme, this reply is intended for you and concerns the hormone disrupters. I'm not sure what position you're going to take. We've got two months now. What will Belgium do? You've already stuck your neck out in the field of.....and proved your courage. Will you show the same courage with Belgium's position on hormone disruptors in two months' time? We have put a minimouse step; it is a drop on a hot plate. It's a very technical file. Would you like to play a leading role with France? You have said that you have good contacts, but what will Belgium do?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u136	Mr President, I very much regret the absence of any action before the European Court of Justice concerning the authorisation of the use of glyphosate. Extensive legal analyses carried out in France, Belgium and the other countries that voted against the European Commission's position show that the approach is possible in accordance with the precautionary principle of States, which is undermined by this decision. On the one hand, this allows you, country by country, not to continue to introduce it into the market despite the opinion of the European Commission and, on the other hand, to counter this decision before the European Court of Justice. The deadline for appeal is until mid-February. I invite you to mobilize with your counterparts to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u137	Together with the countries we have contacted to work together on this issue, we have agreed to focus our energy on this issue. There must be concrete and effective collaboration aimed at developing alternatives, rather than clinging to the hypothetical outcome of a decision by the European Court.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u138	Mrs Gerkens, the KPMG study will take place at the end of January or the beginning of February, after the translation of the sixty pages. They will propose, as I have requested, recommendations. The choice of KPMG is not mine. As it should be, the choice of an auditor is made through a public invitation to tender. It's mandatory. It's M's service. From Ridder who decided who would be assigned the audit. I'm not the one who chooses who carries out the audit. As always, this is done by means of an open invitation to tender. I believe that is how all my colleagues do this. After all, that is mandatory. Mr Van Hees, I have played no part in this. I have every confidence in it because those people have a reputation to defend. I think they will do their job in a decent way.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u139	Minister, their reputation has been made for a long time. KPMG and the Big Four are specialists in major tax fraud, privatization of health care and insurance. The choice is clear. It is not even necessary to publish the conclusions of the report, we already know them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u140	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u141	We will begin the discussion of the articles of the draft law on the Budget for the financial year 2018. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2689/1) We move on to the discussion of the sections of the bill containing the 2018 Budget for Ways and Means. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2689/1) The draft law has 20 articles. The bill has 20 clauses. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u142	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole of the draft Budget Bill for the financial year 2018 will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the entire bill containing the 2018 Budget for Ways and Means will take place at a later date. We begin the discussion of the articles of the draft general budget for the financial year 2018. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2690/1+2) + (2689/5) We proceed to the discussion of the sections of the bill containing the general estimates for the 2018 fiscal year. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2690/1+2) + (2869/5) ******
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u143	• Veerle Wouters cs (2690/43) • 11 – Barbara Pas (2690/43)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u144	• 9 • Veerle Wouters cs (2690/43) • 10 • Veerle Wouters cs (2690/43) • 13... Barbara Pas (2690/43) Annex V.Part 2.124 (b) 2.01.6 • Veerle Wouters cs (2690/43) ******
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u145	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments retained, the articles 1-01-2 and 2.016, the tables in the annex and on the whole of the draft law on the general expenditure budget for the financial year 2018 will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments, the reserved articles 1-01-2 and 2.01.6 and the attached tables, as well as on the whole bill containing the general budget for the 2018 budget year, will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u146	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Philippe Goffin, Richard Miller, Gilles Foret, Jean-Jacques Flahaux, Olivier Chastel.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u147	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Mr Terwingen and Mrs De Wit.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u148	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u149	Mr.President, Minister, in 2015, 698 inmates went to full prison while only 276 were released on parole. These figures once again dissipate this chorus, which makes citizens believe that detainees are leaving one third of their sentence. That's obviously not true. Most of the time, convicts remain incarcerated well beyond the eligibility of parole. In 2006, the Government approved the establishment of the Penal Enforcement Court. The aim of its creation was to better take into account the rights of victims and to increase the responsibility of the author by forcing him to participate in a lengthy process of reintegration. It was also decided to provide the courts for the enforcement of sentences with a plural and specialized composition to promote the reduction of the risk of recidivism while retaining the added value brought by experts in penology and social reintegration. Regrettably, the bill under consideration is moving in the opposite direction as it makes the choice of possible longer periods of imprisonment and far less thorough controls than those provided by the sentencing court. The trial judge will now be able to issue a minimum sentence period during which no parole will be granted. This will undoubtedly increase the "basis of punishment" to the detriment of the accountability of the inmates and, as I said, of the entire process of re-integration of the inmate. This extension of the effective sentencing period will limit the trial period all the more and will also delay the possibility of re-integration. It is certainly a low blow to parole and, ladies and gentlemen, an obvious breach of the prerogatives of the sentencing court, which nevertheless provides good work and which is the most able – because the best tool – to appreciate the evolving abilities of the convicted person. Minister, it is no secret that prison overcrowding remains endemic in our country. However, the government is proposing a measure whose sole aim is to flatter certain instincts of public opinion, but which will result in a mathematical increase in prison overcrowding and will in fact have no effect on the safety of our fellow citizens, or even perverse effects. In fact, prohibiting several categories of prisoners from even applying for parole would deprive them of all hope and would help to make prisons much more dangerous, especially for prison officers. Instead of promoting reintegration, this provision will encourage recidivism – against which the parole system represents, as some say, the best remedy. Finally, far from me the idea of minimizing the seriousness of the facts that are listed and the need to ensure the safety of the police, but the Council of State raises the inequalities that the project carries, as my group and several colleagues have repeatedly recalled in committee. Therefore, why is such a fact punishable by a heavier penalty not taken into account? Why would the murder of a policeman be more damaging than that of a military officer, a magistrate or a parliamentarian? Yet the social, political and media impact will be the same. How can this difference in treatment be justified? I have already asked you about this, but I have not received an answer. As we have stated in the reports of the commission of inquiry, the conditions of detention, the state of our prisons, and the absence of a real reintegration plan – from the moment of imprisonment and when we leave prison – really have serious consequences, as evidenced by the rate of recidivism. It is by taking this problem – and other social issues – with arms that we can hope to change the figures of crime. For these reasons, my group and I will vote against your project.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u150	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have discussed this draft in detail in committee. With one part of the draft law, namely the raising of the threshold for immediate arrest, we have no problems. Recently, however, police judges warned that it would be more difficult for them to hold on to persistent offenders, among others, for the time being, if the threshold was raised from one to three years. I understand their concern, but I remain of the opinion that there are serious reasons for someone being locked up in prison or locked up immediately after the hearing. We can therefore agree to the increase from one to three years. However, with the other component, the security period, we do have some problems. There are six reasons why that period is not a good idea. Firstly, the scheme will be counterproductive. It does not take into account the efforts made by detainees during their imprisonment. Whoever is actually working on his reintegration, who is working on his drug or aggression problems or whatever, cannot be rewarded for that, because the judge on the ground can say in advance that no matter how one evolves or whatever one does, one has to serve up to two thirds of the sentence and that one can only apply for a conditional release. I do not need to convince you of the advantage of conditional release, because if the debate were to be held for or against conditional release, we would probably use the same arguments to defend the conditional release. These conditions can be very strict, may take a while and must be monitored. With the introduction of a security period, there is a risk that many may not be able to ask for conditional release for the first time after two thirds of their sentence, and since they are often not given the first time, they often have to ask for a second or a third time, they are very close to the end of the sentence. We already see that many prisoners are at the end of their sentence and then they are released without conditions, without supervision. That risk will only be increased. It'll be counterproductive. It will certainly not increase security in our society. Secondly, Minister, I have also pointed this out and I am convinced that the settlement worked out is not in conformity with the government agreement, which you are asking for. The agreement in the government agreement was, after all, that the measure would be introduced for very serious crimes. The list contains a number of serious crimes. However, we can see that the security period can already be applied in prisons of three years or more. Those penalties are serious punishments, but they are not the very serious penalties that are endorsed. Thirdly, we have also discussed the arbitrariness of crimes. As Mrs Özlem said, we also talked about the murder of a police officer. The text was originally unsophisticated. There was no explicit link with the murder of a police officer in the performance of his duties or in the performance of his duties. The classic case, which I also understand, is that a criminal takes revenge on a police officer because the policeman did his job. That's what this is about. It's not about being a policeman. The text was subsequently amended by an amendment, so that a murder in the family context is not covered by the provision. However, it remains the fact that this stricter provision is introduced only in the case of the murder of a police officer, but not in the case of a military officer carrying out surveillance orders, or in the case of a investigating judge who has tackled someone hard and has been detained for a long time or in a magistrate who has pronounced a very severe sentence. However, they too may be the target of revenge or reprisal. Anyway, the government has explicitly opted for the protection of policemen and not others. Mr Minister, we know in advance that this point will be the subject of discussion and that it will be raised that there may be a violation of the principle of equality in this area. Fourthly, we can be sure that the introduction of that security period will have an impact on the overpopulation in prisons. We, you, the government and your predecessors have already had problems controlling the population in prisons. Fifthly, the text also means a motion of censure against the judges in the criminal courts. They have a very important task and, in my opinion, carry it out well in general. They assess the files on the basis of reports they get. I don't think they're going to be ice cream overnight, but they're considering their decisions. In fact, the text is a motion of censure, which will limit their competence. They will be able to assess the period after the security period. In this sense, their decision-making powers are shortened. Finally, we discussed the retroactive effect. I was and still am very surprised that you are still defending that retroactivity is possible, because I believe that there should be no legal discussion on this. After all, the generally known principle is that a stricter penalty cannot be applied retroactively. Following the second reading, we resumed the discussion on the basis of a note which we received afterwards and which was incorporated fully into the report. I have read it carefully, but I am not yet convinced of the arguments put forward. Since we have not been able to have that debate in committee, I have to talk about it today. I note that you and the government still do not want to accept that the security period is an element of the punishment. You continue to assume that it has nothing to do with the penalty measure, but that it is an element of punishment. That position is essential for you, otherwise you would not be able to apply it retroactively. At least that's the point. We will see whether this is happening on the ground. I'll get back to you on that. It is an element of the punishment, for it is the judge on the substance who makes a judgment, who will take the decision. He can do that, he's not obligated to do it. If he does it, it is, of course, an element of punishment, of punishment. For example, he can impose a penalty of ten years, whereby one can automatically apply for conditional release after a third of it if one is not a repeater. If it is established that the security period will be two thirds, you can only apply from two thirds or 6.6 years. So it's a judge's decision on the merits. So it has to do with an element of punishment measurement. As in committee, I refer once again to the opinion of the Council of State. The Council of State is very clear and literally says: "The security period as a minimum duration of effective deprivation of liberty can be considered as an element of the severity of the punishment." The court may impose such a penalty in order to ensure that the offence is properly punished in the light of the gravity of the offence, the attitude and personality of the offender at the time of the facts and the danger that it may be considered to be held responsible for society." It is therefore an element of punishment, not an element of punishment. Thus, Article 2 of the Criminal Code applies. Article 2 is very clear and imposes a ban on retroactivity of the penal law, where this leads to an increase. This is not only contrary to Article 2 of the Criminal Code, but also to Article 7 of the ECHR and Article 15 of the BuPo Convention, which, moreover, has a direct effect in our country. Even if, from a fictional point of view, it would not be a punishment, Minister, and we would therefore follow your argument that such a decision would be an element of punishment, with which I do not agree, it does not mean that the tightening can be carried out retroactively. That was also your argument. You specify a number of arguments and one of the arguments you develop in the note is the following. You refer to the postponement of the sentence and say: "As postponement is not a punishment, Article 2 of the Criminal Code does not apply here. Immediate application is therefore the rule." I do not agree with that statement and that example, because that goes against the case law and the doctrine of justice, to which the note does not refer. I wonder who drew up the note, but the reference to the case law and the doctrine of justice has been rather selective. I refer, for example, to the judgment in cassation of 13 May 2015. Minister, you will probably not know that by heart, but there is no mention of it. That judgment ruled on the abolition of the deferment of the sentence in the event of confiscation as an additional penalty. This was about a law of 2014. The Court of Cassation held that the abolition would lead to an increase in the penalty and thus would be contrary to Article 2 of the Criminal Code, which would prevent it from being applied retroactively to offences committed prior to the entry into force of the law. The judgment is quite clear, I quote: 'A penalty for which the law always prohibits the granting of postponement is heavier than a penalty for which it allows the court to assess to some extent whether a postponement can be granted'. Thus, the plea alleging infringement of Article 2 of the Criminal Code is the ground on which the judgment of the Court of Cassation annulled a judgment of the Court of Appeal. The example of the postponement in your note is contradicted by a recent judgment of the Court of Cassation. The court is followed by the doctrine of justice. In a recent article, Bart Spriet and Jonathan Raeymakers talk about recent changes to criminal law, including the potpourriwet II and the non-retroactivity with reference to the judgment of the Constitutional Court, the case law of the European Court of Human Rights and the BuPo Convention. I believe, Minister, that you have been a little selective in the arguments used in the note to convince the committee, because what is written there is not in line with the case law as we know it today. The loss of the right to benefit from the terms of sentence from a third of the sentence could be regarded as a substantial tightening of the sentence and thus of the sentence as a whole. That is an argument based on the fact that such a decision is an element of punishment. My first argument, however, is that it is not part of the execution of the sentence, but is an element of the measure of punishment. The conclusion of the note, namely that there are no legal problems, is therefore incorrect. I therefore believe, Minister, that you will face many problems in the implementation of the legislative text. The case law may not follow you. On the basis of Article 2 of the Criminal Code, the European Convention on Human Rights and the BuPo Convention, the judge must refuse to apply the penal law retroactively. The Court of Appeal is clear. I just referred to it. The Constitutional Court has considered the principle of non-retroactivity as a general principle of law, not only in criminal law but also in civil law and other branches of law. This can only be waived under strict conditions. Of course, this cannot be done in criminal matters. The European Court of Human Rights has also developed a great deal of justice in the same sense. The essence of his judgments is that the content of the law must be foreseeable. Retroactively introducing a tightening is contrary to the foreseeability of criminal law. In short, it goes against all the principles of criminal law as we know it, not only in our law but also in European and international law. That is why I find it incomprehensible that you should ignore this clear and firm case law. It's like a lawyer's plea. One lawyer must defend the position A in front of the judge and the other thesis B. Those defending the position B seek justice and the doctrine of justice that fit into his booth. Those who defend the position A seek justice and the doctrine of justice that fit in with their booth. A minister working on legislation must look at both the case law and the doctrine of justice, but not just on one side or on the other. Like an investigating judge, he has to look at both sides. That did not happen in the note you gave to the committee. It's a one-sided note. Important elements that can defend my position and those of many others are not included in your note. It's one-sided. I predict, Minister, that the judges will not apply the new law in practice. There will be appeal and there will be cassation requests. You can avoid this by making it clear in the debate today that retroactivity does not apply here.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u151	Mr. Speaker, Mr.Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the bill under discussion today is, at last, the outcome of a long-standing request from our group. We, the Reform Movement, have been calling for security periods for the most serious crimes for twenty years. After a dozen legislative initiatives, we look forward to finally being able to put this political demand into practice on Thursday, December 14, 2017. You have to be persevering! In parallel to this project, our will was also to reform and improve our penal system with regard to the immediate arrest. Today, the law provides for the possibility of an immediate arrest of a person sentenced to a principal imprisonment of one year or more without a stay. However, we know that 10 per cent of prisoners in pre-trial detention, which accounts for about one third of the prison population, are non-final convicts, arrested immediately. The immediate arrest can end if the sentence is reduced or changed, so some people only stay in prison for a few days, which makes little sense. It was therefore necessary to raise this threshold except for terrorist or sexual offences for which the greatest firmness must be maintained. As far as the other aspect is concerned, in terms of security periods, we have demanded this reform. Why? Because society, and especially the victims, and all citizens are being challenged by a mismatch that may still exist between the offence committed and the sentence actually carried out by the convicted offender. In general and without giving in to simplism – the latest particularly violent events in the capital have demonstrated this again – the population too often has the feeling of a form of impunity. No, we don't want to solve it. It is time to make justice more responsive to the reality of the facts. The government, supported by this parliamentary majority, takes stock of the situation and has the courage to make security periods one of the important objectives of this legislature in the area of justice. Today, we are there, as we had committed ourselves to it. We kept our promise. Our duty, as representatives of the Nation, is to listen to the Nation. Our duty, as representatives of the Nation, is to act for the safety of all. Our duty, as representatives of the Nation, is to create greater coherence between the crime committed, on the one hand, and the sentence actually carried out, on the other. This is a matter of protection and pacification of society, but it is also a matter of respect for the victims.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u152	Mr Calomne, I hear your comments. You have to hear the citizen. Impunity must be combated. I am not sure that the choice that is made by the majority is the best to answer the legitimate question you ask. The safety period is the outcome of a process. A file is submitted for information and investigation. There is a procedure before a magistrate, a judgment, a decision or even an appeal. We're quite at the end of the race. Would not the choice have been to judge the most serious facts quickly, without it being sloppy, rather than waiting for several years and being opposed to a reasonable period of time? Wasn't the real choice to give material, financial and human resources to our judicial system, to be able to respond within appropriate time limits, and taking into account the founding principles of the rule of law, rather than to propose solutions which, I believe, do not meet the wishes you express?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u153	Mr Brotcorne, your intervention allows me to respond in advance. I was gonna get there. This is obviously not the only answer, but it is an answer. In committee, it seems to me that you have heard that your group was not unanimous on this issue. So I look forward to your intervention to find out what your group's position will be, as some of you – it seemed to be a debate – were rather in favour of this measure. But I repeat that this is not the only possible response to this sense of impunity felt by the population. This is a possibility left to the judge. If the rule of law is to allow a person who has paid his debt to reintegrate with dignity and resume a new life, it is also to protect a whole society from those who pose a threat to it. While all the offences undermine public order, a number of them are particularly serious and affect our social conscience: rape and indecent assault that resulted in death, murder of a police officer, torture that resulted in death, abduction and detention that resulted in the death of a minor. It is precisely these crimes that are covered by this bill. We agree with my group that the primary function of deprivation of liberty – punishment – should be given priority, with this possibility of a security period as an additional mechanism. Yes, the sanction must be adequate, yes it must respond to the seriousness of the offence, to the attitude and personality of the perpetrator at the time of the act; yes, the sanction must respond to the danger that it represents to our society. As a result of this reform, the trial court is given the opportunity to decide on the period during which no form of early release can take place. It should be recalled that it is precisely this jurisdiction that is best able to judge the seriousness of the facts and the dangerousness of the author. Therefore, this discretion is left to the judge. It should also be noted that parole will always be possible after a period of security. Let us be aware that any convicted person will eventually get out of prison, one day, and, in this case, parole, as well as accompanying work, are still necessary and can also constitute a bulwark against recidivism. I conclude, Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, by expressing the hope that this project will enjoy the widest possible support. The citizens of our country want clear reforms and criminal justice that meets the legitimate aspirations of the democratic society in which we live. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u154	Mr President, Minister, I would like to briefly express some reservations about the draft law. Raising the threshold for immediate arrest to three years to reduce its improper use, especially in absentia, will hopefully have a positive effect on the daily population of the prisons, without compromising security. We have specific comments on the security period. During the two readings in committee, I and several of my fellow Members have already pointed out that it is clear that the existing system of conditional release leads to a vicious circle in which judges pronounce heavier sentences to ensure that part of the sentence will be carried out effectively. The introduction of a security period can break that circle because it retains the effects of the former Lejeune Act and, on the other hand, brings more consistency between the sentence pronounced and the sentence to be executed. Of course, the issue needs to be considered in its globality and, from that point of view, the penalty level in the Criminal Code is also best reviewed. So for sp.a, it's an en-en-story. Because it is part of the process, we will be abstaining from the vote. During the two readings, Minister, you failed to convince me of your reply to two very fundamental criticisms of the present draft. The first criticism is that Articles 2 and 3 of the draft law are limited to police officers. For certain very serious crimes, the design wishes to introduce the security period. One of these serious crimes is the murder of police officers because of their capacity as police officers. A very pertinent question that then arises is why only police officers are protected and not also military and magistrates. You said that the distinction should be made between policemen, on the one hand, and soldiers and judges, on the other, because that first category is much more exposed to the criminal environment. Mr Minister, this is an argument that can be defended, although it can be argued against. Magistrates are also very often in direct contact with criminals. Even more, they will eventually determine their final punishment. The resentment against them will often be much greater than against the police officer in charge of investigating the criminal. The big problem, however, is that we do not see any consistency in that statement. If we look at your policy paper, it says on page 27 that "there must be better protection of the physical integrity of the person in charge of the detection, detection, investigation, prosecution and judgment of criminal offences or the execution of the sentence and the performance of such duties is at risk'. In our view, therefore, this includes not only police officers but also magistrates. A second, very technical point is the nature of the security period, execution or penalty measurement. The question of the nature of the security period is not only of legal-technical importance but also of the functioning of the law over time. If this is a rule of penalty measurement, then the prohibition of retroactive effect of the stricter penal law applies. Together with my colleague Mr Van Hecke, I believe that the opinion of the Council of State shows that it is a question of punishment and that it must therefore be provided for in the time of this law, which this draft does not do, as you are inferring from the opinion that it is a question of punishment. I therefore believe that this will lead to the necessary difficulties in applying that security period in practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u155	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, many things have already been said. Minister, I do not always understand you in the way you ask us to support or combat your texts. Indeed, you have the unfortunate habit, and this is still the case here, of mixing two, three, four subjects so different that they have nothing to do with each other. Of some, you could get unanimity from Parliament. This is the case for the first part of this bill, which is called the immediate arrest of a convicted person. We are going to raise the thresholds, thus avoiding the measure of detention, which is going to be in favour of the fight against prison overcrowding that everyone calls for. You could have had the intellectual and political satisfaction of seeing the whole of this Parliament support you, I think, on this proposal. However, you attach to it something that is not directly related to it and that will perhaps prevent this beautiful unanimity. I don't know if it's a way of working that guarantees the interests of some members of your majority. I don't think it would take a lot of scratching to realize that's probably what's at stake. What is most intriguing and significant in this text, Minister, is of course the introduction into our judicial system and the system of penalties of what is called a security period and not a security sentence. A magistrate decides on the basis of circumstances, on the basis of criteria established by law, that in such a situation he has the power to assess whether the decision he takes, the sentence to which he condemns an accused, must be accompanied or increased by a period during which parole cannot be applied. It will therefore be necessary for him to take into account a number of factors which the legislator will allow him to assess in order to consider that he must act in this way. Here too, Minister, I wonder how you work, because you have set up working groups that are based on comprehensive reforms, which you would like to tie together, which are innovative. It would be interesting for us to discuss these together. At the same time, you bring us texts that, suddenly, come to amend or suggest changes to pieces of legislation, the thread of which does not appear in the light of the great objectives that you announce to us in your successive policy notes and, above all, in your Justice Plan. We have the right to question what will remain of these ad hoc measures that you propose to us when you come with the reforms of the Criminal Code, the Code of Criminal Investigation or the new Penal Enforcement Code. If these changes, which you keep with us on various occasions, are in line with your general policy notes, we are inclined to think that we will go in a slightly or sometimes radically different direction from what you propose to us in your scattered texts. Are we going to unblock tomorrow what we are busy doing on behalf of these great new sets that you are proposing to us? Or will it be a way for the majority to say that, in these major reforms, there will be a series of things that we have already discussed in Parliament and to which the experts whom you have appointed will be forced to stand, since these changes are so recent that we do not see why they should already be changed? With regard to this security penalty, Minister, I am surprised that this is happening now because, in your February 2015 Justice Plan, you announced to us that you were going "to carry out a methodical and uniform control of the punishable nature" (...) "a criminologically substantiated assessment instrument to be developed by mid-2015". Come on, let's go! We know that we can be somewhat late, but it has been more than two and a half years since we could have had this assessment instrument, which, according to you, "will allow us to assess the punishable nature of the offences in the light of different criteria and indicators. It will also be examined whether the penalty is always commensurate with the seriousness of the offence committed and the harm caused." Bravo! I applaud with both hands! But I'm not sure that's what we're doing with the text you're proposing. I quote: "Imprisonment is the most punitive and socially disturbing punishment, which makes it more difficult to reintegrate the convicted person. For society, imprisonment is also a form of punishment that is both very expensive and inefficient." Not very effective, Mr. Calomne! "The authorities must also take into account prison overcrowding". I have a feeling that with what you're proposing here, we're not in line with what you're announcing. Yes, Mr Calomne, my political group has discussed the possibility of introducing a safety penalty into our system. To briefly recall the facts, it was at the time of Michelle Martin's parole, who moved the opinion. Often, in such cases, the legislator reacts. He believes that essential changes must be made, that parades must be found, since the system of the sentencing court or the implementation of parole may have failed in terms of what public opinion thinks. Not necessarily in the light of what legal professionals think, those who have files to examine and who are, at the level of the sentencing court, associated with social rehabilitation professionals, psychologists. So they're not just lawyers. The question was raised as to how it was possible that Ms. Martin could have been assessed as being eligible for parole. That's when the security sentence came up again. During the previous legislature, my colleague Joseph George and I had tabled a text that provided for this assumption of a security sentence. But it was under very precise and very restrictive conditions where only extremely serious crimes were targeted, with man's death as a consequence and giving rise to minimum sentences of 15 years or more. This is not exactly the text that you are proposing to us today, and I have not, as far as I am concerned, in the course of this Parliament, resubmitted any text on the safety period - I have explained this to myself in committee - because since these events our legislation has evolved. Under the previous legislature, there has been a steady increase in a wide range of penalties for a wide range of offences, including the most serious, such as sexual crime, terrorism and homicide. But in doing so, we have obviously tightened the conditions for parole, so that parole can only be applied for later, given the sentences handed down by our courts. Somewhere, this increase in sentences met the objective of the security penalty in the most serious situations, which is why my group considered that it may no longer be so relevant today to move forward with plans to implement security sentences in our judicial system. I think that we must also agree to trust procedures which are still relatively recent and which we have developed. I am thinking of the sentencing court, where it was considered that it was no longer for the Minister of Justice to rule on the conditions of enforcement. These courts have therefore been given the means to act with knowledge of the facts and with in-depth knowledge of the cases, taking into account both the interests of the victims, to which we must obviously be sensitive, and the real capacities and possibilities for reintegration. If a person shows bad will and shows that it is not possible, in view of his or her behaviour during the period of deprivation of liberty, to release him or her because he or she does not do anything to do so, the sentencing court will find out. But someone who, on the other hand, makes efforts and who may be thought to be in conditions, because there has been an improvement during his detention and he is in conditions for parole, may have it. Today, with the death penalty, a person who even shows a positive evolution in prison will be prohibited from benefiting from this positive development and the possibility of amendment from the moment of conviction and even before serving his sentence. I think that if we are all still imbued with a minimum of humanism, we believe that every man is in a position to evolve, with a few exceptions perhaps, but in this case the sentencing court has the capacity, the competence and, above all, the tools to assess it and make an informed decision. Minister, it is pleased that the sentence of security remains an option of the court, which will assess the nature of the offence, its degree of seriousness, the sociability of the convicted person, the general context of the case and see whether or not it must apply it. I am not a prophet, but I feel that our magistrates will make little use of this faculty. I want to say "fortunately" because if it were to become systematic, it would be our faith in reintegration that would be defeated. The assessment of the gravity of an act, whether or not a magistrate decides to apply the security penalty, depends on the combination of these two factors: the intrinsic value of the act and the radicality of the author. This seems essential to me and I think that our magistrates will be attentive to it. What pleased me, minister, during our committee debates is your hostility to incompressible sentences. I find the humanist who sleeps in you because some continue to believe that a safety sentence is the same as an incompressible sentence. That's not the case. The incompressible penalty is a permanent disregard for the prisoner's hope of reintegration. The conviction does not expire until its end, regardless of the personal situation of the convicted person. I am therefore very pleased, Minister, to have heard you correct the sentiment of some of our colleagues in this regard. In the realization of your project, about the faculty left to magistrates, many of my colleagues have already intervened on the choices that are yours. You have considered that it is necessary to stop at the most cruel situations, which often lead to the death of a man, but I do not think that you have sufficiently listed the situations and cases to which reference should have been made. For example, the chapter that includes offences that may be subject to a security penalty includes those committed against State security. In this situation, a magistrate may use a security sentence, even in the case of an offence involving only a three-year sentence. I was taking the example, in committee, of someone who would have entered a protected military area and photographed particularly protected facilities. It's from the registry of the breach of state security. This person may possibly be sentenced to a security sentence. However, the magistrate will not be able to enforce security sentences for a person who has abducted a minor and may have inflicted on him the most atrocious abuses, if the latter has not died as a result of his abduction. There is sometimes a question of consistency in the choices made by the drafters. This leads to situations that appear to be inconsistent. Minister, I have the impression that, in your personal capacity, you were not particularly committed to the introduction of security sentences in our legal arsenal. This is a chapter of the government agreement. You're applying it as a good student. Perhaps we should ask the friends of the N-VA, who are no longer here today, to have the same attitude and loyalty towards other government measures with regard to the government agreement - we have just talked about the exit from nuclear power. I have a feeling that you came with this text because it was part of the government agreement. This text has not been finalized. It could have been discussed and discussed further in our committee. But as often, we have not had the time, because we have to move forward. The texts have to come out to show that we have a few scalps on his belt. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, for all these reasons, and especially because of the introduction of these security sentences, we will not be able to follow you, even if we could have come a long way together according to the possible changes to this project. We will therefore abstain at the time of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u156	Mr President, Minister, I would like to briefly explain why the Flemish Christian Democrats, the group for which I am speaking and by whom I am fully supported at the moment, thanks to Mr Van den Bergh, who is present, are so happy with the present draft. Please excuse me for not being able to attend the undoubtedly very good statements made by Mr Van Hecke and other colleagues. We have had sufficient opportunity to discuss the procedure. I therefore regret Mr Brotcorne's remark that this is one of the reasons for abstaining. That the opposition is abstaining, I understand that, because in that position one must always at least abstain if one is to have the hands free. However, the procedure cannot be the reason, I think. I would like to say a few words about the two themes of this draft, without becoming too technical, on the one hand because I have too little knowledge of the dossier in this one and on the other because I do not think that the plenary is the right place to discuss technical issues, even if it is up to lawyers to do so over and over again. Everyone can, of course, but I'm trying to keep it a little social. On the immediate arrest, Mr Brotcorne said that this is part of the draft on which everyone agrees. That's right. The Flemish Christian Democrats also agree, although I have not been insensitive to the remarks made by the police judges. Perhaps Mr Van Hecke referred to that; knowing him, I know that he always does that very carefully. Nevertheless, I do not believe that this is an objection. I think that at first the police judges might have had a point by saying that since the immediate arrest is no longer allowed from one year on, they will never be able to do so. The immediate arrest is ultimately some kind of security measure to prevent someone from taking the flight. I do not think that this should in any case be a form of punitive circumstance. I understand the police judges, and it's to their credit that they're woken up by that. I understand that they want strength and see this as an additional means, but I do not think that this should prevent us from taking the measure now to apply the immediate detention only from three years of punishment. Over the security period, I will be even shorter, Minister. CD&V has always been a believer in conditional release. If people are put in prison without any prospect of a possible reduction in the sentence, they will no longer have any perspective, with all the consequences. That is not the system we know it to be and we are in favour of. If we now decide that, in the event of more severe punishment for certain crimes, the judge will in future be able to determine that a person can only be released from two thirds of his sentence, I believe that this is a good thing. Even if only because some of my colleagues who practiced criminal law know that in the past the judges imposed heavier penalties in order to ensure that at least one third of the sentence was executed. From now on, the judges can determine more precisely when to release someone. They can now impose sanctions saying that someone can be released from two thirds at the earliest. The result will be that the punishment will be more transparent, and in theory perhaps even less long because the judges would otherwise impose stricter penalties so that at least one third would be carried out. In this way, the judges can punish more transparently and accurately. I believe that this is particularly important in terms of transparency. The judges now know that whatever they impose is also being carried out, and the detainees now know for sure what they are up to. This also avoids unnecessary procedures that some use to release after one third of the sentence. I believe that this will mean less work for the criminal court. That is why, Mr President, the Flemish Christian Democrats will unanimously support this bill, thanks to an excellent Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u157	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have discussed this draft a great deal in committee, at first and second readings. I would therefore like to confine myself to my answers. Mr Brotcorne, I am very pleased that you think that a certain consciousness is sleeping in my house. That's nice of you! I am also glad that you had the same good idea as the majority but in a better and softer form.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u158	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u159	Irony is sometimes present in my words and in those of Mr Brotcorne, Mrs Fonck. You're not the only one with irony alone. Having said that, I think that the most important thing about the quality of the preparatory work, apart from the very relevant remarks about Mr Terwingen's immediate arrest, is Mr. Van Hecke, who, as a good lawyer, has now shown up while in committee, he had not yet had knowledge of all the exhibits. Mr Van Hecke, having said this, I honestly believe that justice will do justice. Article 2 of the Code of Criminal Law is a provision which is in itself and which can complete the case-law in response to concrete measures taken. However, I have listened carefully to you and would like to recall the opinion of the State Council of October 2012 on the Martin Act of 17 March 2013. The Council of State refers to the application of the European Court of Human Rights' case law, including Rio Prada versus Spain, of 2013, to this difficult alignment between the penalty assessment and the execution. The Council of State says literally, referring to a French version of European case law, about the Court of Human Rights: "The Court ruled that a distinction should be made between une mesure constituent and substance une peine et une mesure relative à l'exécution ou à l'application de la peine." Voorts, Zegt by Raad van State, stelt het Hof het volgende: "Where the nature and purpose of a measure concerns the remission of a sentence – het uitstel – "or a change in the parole system, this measure is not an integral part of the sentence within the meaning of article 7." It is on that question that I have raised in committee and it is on that same question that you have made your plea. I put all the confidence in the case-law, which will decide whether this new security measure can be applied on facts which have already occurred before the entry into force of the law, but which must still lead to a conviction after the entry into force of the law, parce que noublioons pas quиil söfagit döfüune faculté. Imagine, for example, if the legislator gives the court the opportunity to grant provisional release only after two thirds in the event of a recidivism. Mr Van Hecke, if we had decided today to go back from two-thirds to four-fifths in all cases, which I would not have proposed, would you have doubted for a moment that there would have been retroactivity in that case because this would not be a punishment within the meaning of Article 2? You have not doubted this in the case of the Martin Act. I don't doubt it here either. Mrs Lambrecht has made the same point. Once again, we have not closed any doors to justice. It is optional and ultimately, if a judge applied this to old facts, but new convictions, the highest court will decide whether Article 2 applies in this case or not. We shall be richer in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u160	Mr President, the Minister challenges me again. He is indeed referring to an earlier opinion of the Council of State, as included in the note submitted. However, I would ask you to quote further, Minister, because you stopped when it became interesting. I'll pick up where you left off the quote. You said that sometimes it is difficult to distinguish between punishment and punishment. The opinion of the Council of State of 16 October 2012 is as follows: Ik quote uit uw nota: "Het Hof erkent "while the distinction between the two may not always be practical". In een recent judgment stelde het Hof nog: "The Court observes that there seems to be no doubt that the fixing of a minimum period of imprisonment for life imprisonment falls within the scope of the imposition of the penalty and therefore enjoys the protection of Article 7". Furthermore, it says in Dutch: "It can be deduced that the condition for the release, and a fortiori the impossibility of a possible conditional release, must be regarded as a punishment." It is said itself that Article 7 of the European Convention on Human Rights could also apply to Article 15 of the BUPO and Article 2 of the European Convention on Human Rights. I am convinced that justice will go in this direction and that the retroactivity will not be applied.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u161	As a way of putting an end to the game, I know you are entitled to it, but you will have to admit that I myself have quoted the quote from my note in full. You have now quoted from my note. I am very grateful for that. You also know that in other words I myself said what the Council of State has completed and what you have read out. Let's just wait and see together. I'd be happy to pay you a pint on that occasion if you win. I hope you'll pay me half a pint if I win.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u162	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u163	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2731/6) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2731/6) The title was changed by the Committee to "draft law amending various provisions with a view to introducing a security period and amending the Law of 20 July 1990 on provisional detention as regards immediate detention." The title has been amended by the Commission into "Bill amending various provisions with a view to introducing a security period and amending the Act of 20 July 1990 on preventive detention with regard to immediate arrest". The draft law contains 7 articles. The bill has 7 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u164	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u165	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Raf Terwingen, Sonja Becq, Veli Yüksel, Servais Verherstraeten.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u166	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Werner Janssen, referred to his written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u167	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2756/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2756-3) The draft law has 13 articles. The bill has 13 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u168	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u169	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Gilles Vanden Burre, rapporteur, referred to the written report . Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u170	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2765/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2765/4) The draft law has 12 articles. The bill has 12 clauses. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u171	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u172	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Ms Karine Lalieux, rapporteur, referred to the written report . Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u173	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2772/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2772/4) The draft law has 32 articles. The bill has 32 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u174	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u175	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u176	Mr President, I refer to my written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u177	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u178	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2755/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2755/3) The draft law has 13 articles. The bill has 13 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u179	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u180	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr De Vriendt, rapporteur, asked for the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u181	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2779/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2779/3) The draft law has 23 articles. The bill has 23 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u182	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u183	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Olivier Chastel, Richard Miller, David Clarinval, Kattrin Jadin, Jean-Jacques Flahaux.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u184	The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt. 85, 4) (1934/6) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt. 85) (1934/6). The meeting's open. The discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u185	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u186	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the reason for this motion for a resolution is that journalists and freedom of expression are increasingly at risk worldwide. In an image struggle that is partly geopolitics, journalists who want to bring objective and truthful reporting are in a front line. Often journalists are pressured, intimidated, imprisoned, or sometimes, as in Malta, they have to pay for it with their lives. It's not just about physical aggression. The quality of journalism is also compromised. The principles and methods of qualitative journalism are under strong pressure. The internet has come into our lives, but it has also been accompanied by fake news sneaking into our lives. The resolution now before us seeks to address these concerns at the highest international levels. The principles put forward in the text seem to be the logic itself for a democratic rule of law, but they are repeatedly violated. It is therefore up to us to ensure that the principles of free and unhindered journalism are made possible. For our group, it is particularly important that the necessary independent mechanisms for monitoring and monitoring the existence of quality and free journalism are in place throughout the world. That is why our group will support this resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u187	Mr President, I would like to speak very briefly about this text, which has been an interesting exercise for our committee, in particular through the hearings of journalists and associations representing them. My group has always placed as one of the absolute priorities of our diplomacy freedom of expression within the meaning of Article 10 of the European Convention on Human Rights – and, more generally, respect for fundamental freedoms. This is an inalienable and non-negotiable priority, whether it is to address this issue in Belgium, Europe or elsewhere in the world. Journalists and their freedom of expression and their right to exercise their work independently are essential guarantors of citizens' information and freedom of expression. These two principles are closely linked to democratic life. We therefore particularly support demand 14, which proposes to include in our country's foreign policy respect for freedom of the press and the fight against impunity for attacks and all forms of violence against media professionals, as well as to defend this political line bilaterally and multilaterally. With this in mind, and this is the meaning of several amendments which I tabled in committee and which have been adopted – and I thank the majority for this gesture – the hearings have confirmed that this debate cannot ignore the issue of whistleblowers or the question of our country's compliance with its commitments in this area within the Council of Europe. This latter body has a major role to play towards its forty-seven Member States, many of which constitute genuine red lanterns in this area – which I am deeply concerned about. We have been able to reach a comprehensive text, thanks – and I would like to stress this – to good cooperation between the majority and the opposition. It is now up to the government to meet its commitments in this area. We will therefore support this motion for a resolution. However, I am again tabling an amendment rejected in committee, which asks the government to plead for the decriminalization of defamation, which must be legally described as civil misconduct giving rise to reparation. The majority preferred to reject this request. However, our amendment stems from the hearing in committee on 7 November last of representatives of various associations of journalists. On that occasion, they had asked to amend the text to that effect – rightly, in my view.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u188	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not be very long, but I will be a little longer. This text and the subject it deals with are important. The coincidence of the calendar is that forty-five years ago, on December 14, 1972, President Nixon, in a filmed conversation with Henry Kissinger, repeated to him three times: "The press is the enemy". The press is the enemy. It's still amazing! I was re-listening to the recording earlier. In my turn, after listening to Mr Crusnière, I would like to thank the chairman and the members of the Committee on External Relations, members of both the majority and the opposition, who have shown their interest in this subject. Through this resolution and the hearings that have been organised, we have been able together, parliamentarians and journalists, to highlight a problem that knows no borders or respite. That is why I also thank Mr Ricardo Gutiérez, Secretary-General of the European Federation of Journalists, Mr Jean-Paul Marthoz, Ms Julie Majerczak, Director of the Brussels office of Reporters Without Borders, Mr Rudi Vrankx, Mrs Kristien Van Haver, President of the Vlaamse Vereniging van Journalisten and Mr François Ryckmans, President of the Association of Professional Journalists. Ladies and gentlemen, there are no borders to crimes against journalists. Some are murdered in the exercise of their profession or because of it, all over the world. Journalists are in prison, arrested or physically assaulted, mistreated, injured, beaten, subjected to deliberate extreme moral or physical suffering because of their professional opinions or activities. Twelve journalists were murdered in Mexico this year, five in Europe whose anti-corruption journalist and blogger, Daphne Caruana Galizia, in Malta, whose murder, eight weeks after the facts, remains unexplained. No borders in countries at war where journalists risk their lives on battlefields or in the hands of uncontrollable militias in Ukraine, Libya, Mali, Iraq, Syria or the Sahel for those who cover the fight against Boko Haram! No borders in countries where the political situation is tense following the postponement of the elections or the contestation of the outcome of these elections! For example, the New York-based Committee for the Protection of Journalists states that approximately 93 per cent of the murder victims are local journalists. The majority of them cover political news and corruption in their countries of origin. These men and women are therefore victims of political violence in their country, which cannot remain so for us democrats. This is particularly the case of Koula Diallo who was murdered in Guinea. He was a journalist who was shot in the chest at the Executive Office of the main opposition party. Unfortunately, all these elements are commonplace. The examples are legion. There is no respite from persecution against press freedom. Mr President, in this resolution we wanted to denounce a number of facts. I have taken up one or the other in my speech, but more than that, I would like to stress some points of recommendations to the government. There are seventeen in the resolution. I am not going to mention them all, but I would like to make it clear that we are asking the government, the majority and the opposition, to condemn the deliberate attacks on journalists, media professionals and associated personnel, both in times of conflict and in times of peace. We call on all parties to put an end to these practices. We call for the release of all journalists imprisoned in Europe, Turkey, Azerbaijan and Russia and all over the world. We call for support from partners for the appointment of a special adviser to the Secretary-General of the United Nations responsible for monitoring and monitoring Member States' compliance with the various resolutions on the subject. We call for an end to immunity for crimes against journalists. This demand is important. We call for advocacy for the establishment of special investigation units on crimes against journalists, for advocacy for the development and observance of a domestic legal framework, firmly rooted in international human rights law, for advocacy for early warning mechanisms and rapid responses aimed at giving journalists and other media professionals immediate access to the relevant authorities, and for better consideration of the fate of local contacts and translators. All the journalists we auditioned insisted on this aspect which concerns local contacts and translators working with Belgian newspapers abroad. Finally, we want to argue that the profession of journalist can develop in an economic and legal climate conducive to the healthy exercise of a credible counter-power in a democracy. Last but not least, the two points on which our colleague, Mr Crusnière, insisted, we call for the development of a general mechanism for the protection of whistleblowers, both for the private and public sectors. We also call for the legal status of whistleblowers in Belgium. Beyond the crimes committed against journalists, our resolution contains the various aspects that I have just mentioned, but which, together, seem to me to reflect the democratic will to give journalists the peace and serenity they need for their work. Colleagues, we usually call the press the fourth power. This notion gives the impression of criticizing the power of the press. However, it is the opposite. The fourth power must be a counter-power capable of ensuring the proper functioning of democracy and criticising those who confuse politics and abuse of power, those who are unworthy of political mission and democratic duty. That is why we need not a protected press but a press whose freedom is protected. The profession of journalist is difficult and dangerous, but information journalism, investigative journalism and explaining journalism are absolutely necessary for democracy. If democracy is deprived of this fourth pillar, who also guarantees it all its stability and credibility? In conclusion, I will quote a sentence from Benjamin Constant, who wrote in the midst of a period of opposition after the French revolution in the face of Napoleon's imperialism: "It was not the freedom of the press that caused disorder and delirium, it was the long deprivation of the press that had made the vulgar French ignorant and gullible." This Constant formula must, in the globalized mode that is now ours, be extended to all the peoples of the world. Our resolution is humbly contributing to this, as we know; but if the democrats we are do not act, who will?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u189	Mr President, our group will, of course, also vote for this resolution with great conviction. The situation for journalists is deteriorating year after year and worldwide. Reporters sans frontières' annual reports have shown since 2013 that the security of journalists is under increasing pressure. However, the 2017 report showed the worst result since the start of the index in 2002 and showed a worse situation in two thirds of the total number of countries than the year before. Despite the fact that Europe has the best score on the world index, the erosion of freedom of the press is mainly observed on our continent, with a fall in the score of almost 20% over the last five years. The reasons for this global deterioration are different, including fake news and discredit of journalism, the intertwined anti-terrorism and espionage legislation, the fact that there is increasingly difficult funding for professional journalism due to the growing digital supply and also increasingly the element of disinformation. For example, we could see the impact of this during the Brexit campaign and the American presidential election. In other countries too, in Eastern Europe, the Balkans and Germany, this phenomenon is becoming increasingly prominent. In our country too, we have an example of disinformation from Russia about the possible involvement of Belgian aircraft in bombing in Aleppo. Our group fully supports this resolution and therefore supports the text before us. We believe it is necessary to take a number of steps, including the creation of a UN Special Envoy and the creation of special research units. We shall therefore vote in favour of the text in its entirety. Our group had tabled a number of amendments, including the situation of the Maltese journalist Daphne Caruana Galizia who was killed in a bombing of her car and who was investigating possible corruption by the government. The European Parliament will also send a fact finding mission to Malta for this purpose. We have also tabled an amendment on disinformation campaigns and fake news because we see trends that have been increasing in recent years. Our group's concern on this issue is particularly great and rightly so, because it undermines not only the authority but above all the security of journalists. Once again, therefore, we shall be voting in favour of this text with great conviction.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u190	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this morning we learned with great relief the release of the 41 journalists held hostage by the Houthis rebels in Yemen. This hostage-taking demonstrates the extent and violence of journalists' work as rigorous as it is essential to our understanding of the world and the human rights violations that continue there. These journalists are victims of the violations they denounce. In carrying out their mission, they risk daily reprisals that may go into certain regimes to deprivation of liberty and basic care or death. Our Parliament could not ignore this alarming situation and had to relay the concerns of the UN Security Council and the Council of Europe to our Government, but also to the governments of the partner countries. More than ever, slogans such as "I am Charlie" must be translated into firm condemnation of deliberate attacks against journalists and into concrete proactive measures to protect journalists. The press is the watchdog of our democracy. At least if and only if freedom of the press is able to exercise itself in decent and safe working conditions, a sine qua non for professional and fully independent journalism. This motion for a resolution is part of this approach. It also calls on the government to provide legal protection for whistleblowers when addressing the press. My party has been calling for this protection for more than a year. We believe that the status of journalists should be extended to whistleblowers and that the law of 7 April 2005 on the protection of journalistic sources should clearly define and encompass this status. This is the subject of a motion for a resolution adopted by the Brussels Regional Parliament on 17 November. Freedom of the press is not limited to the final expression of information or opinion. It also covers the collection of information, otherwise this freedom would be reduced to grief. The Government must therefore, in the implementation of this motion for a resolution, legislate for the total anonymity of whistleblowers so that they can no longer be criminally prosecuted for theft or violation of professional secrecy and business secrecy. For the sake of consistency, I have tabled several amendments to this text. They aim to report on the situation of journalists taken hostage in areas of conflict and to define negotiating criteria for their release. They aim to report on the situation of journalists arrested and arbitrarily detained in Turkey since the aborted coup on 15 July 2016. An amendment calls for the recommendations adopted by the Council of Europe on 29 June 2017 on political influence on the media and independent journalists. Finally, an amendment calls on the government to work towards a reform of the labour law to take account of the particular situation of journalists in the face of arbitrary dismissal or reprisals and to ensure that they have working conditions worthy of their mission. These additions are intended to underline the urgency of the debate which this motion for a resolution rightly poses, but also the need to ensure both physical and social security for journalists. It is no less than the future of the profession, the quality of our information and the stability of our democracy that are at stake here. We will support this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u191	Mr President, as I had the opportunity to say at the hearings in committee, I support this concern for the safety of journalists. In particular, I welcome the fact that the point on whistleblowers has finally been incorporated into the final version of the text as well as some requests relayed by stakeholders in the sector during these hearings. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not hide from you that we have hesitated about the vote. In the original version, there was certainly a certain amount of hypocrisy, to which you had accustomed us in other motions for resolutions. I am thinking in particular of the recognition of the Palestinian State, which was forgotten at the time when it had to be implemented. Friends of the MR, you are a little specialized in such hypocritical resolutions: in a resolution the opposite of what is being done to the government is indicated. Amendments have been made to the text and things have been improved. Nevertheless, we still have some doubts about the hypocrisy of this motion for a resolution, in which Belgium appears very little. Journalists are experiencing problems all over the world, and also in Belgium. You don't seem to have realized it. Fortunately, we conducted hearings in which Ricardo Gutiérrez, the Secretary General of the European Federation of Journalists, gave you a little slap when he explained that Belgium was in fifth place in a ranking of 37 countries, the first place being the worst! It's not extraordinary. You seemed to have neglected that reality a little bit. It's kind of the resolution "do what I say, not what I do." I had the opportunity to come back in committee to the recent examples of the newspaper L'Avenir or the attacks by Bart De Wever on a journalist from the daily De Standaard. More recently, after these hearings, I had the opportunity, on 14 November, to go to the courthouse to express my solidarity with Zin TV's legal action against the police. In 2015, during a demonstration in Brussels against TTIP, police officers seized the camera of a filming team of this collective of journalists and erased video data from memory cards. As you know, this is contrary to the rules for the protection of journalists and journalism. The case of Zin TV also contributes to the fact that Belgium is in this poor fifth place. I would have appreciated the resolution's recommendation to take action on the dangerous links that increasingly bind the political world, the economic world and pressure freedom of expression. We saw it again with Bernard Arnault's recent decision to put pressure on the newspaper Le Monde by cutting off advertising revenues following the revelations made by this daily newspaper as part of the Paradise Papers. We remember that Bernard Arnault is not in his attempt. He has already done this against Libération, whose front page displeased him. I would have liked the resolution to be clearer on current phenomena, on the concentration of the sector and on the precarisation of the status of journalist, as Mr Gutiérrez had pointed out at the hearings. I believe that this is a worrying development and that public authorities can act in response to it. Finally, on a positive note, I note point 17, also underlined by my colleague Crusnière: the establishment of a legal status for whistleblowers in Belgium. And I hope, ladies and gentlemen of the MR, that if there is still a vote under this legislative term – hopefully – on legislation in this area, you will have the opportunity to demonstrate that it is not only statements but also acts and that you will vote in that direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u192	Mr President, I am not going to start a polemic – we are all a little tired with Mr. Van Hees. I would simply say that in view of the ideology to which you refer, Mr Van Hees, I find it a source of inspiration for you to give lessons in the field of freedom for journalism! It's a first thing. Secondly, that you have read the text by not finding what you wanted, does not surprise me at all! And in a way, as my boyfriend Jean-Jacques says, we could perhaps enjoy it a little bit! I would also point out that Mr Gutiérrez did not give us a slap at all during the hearings in committee. The other parliamentarians, namely those of the democratic groups who were present, have of course heard that Mr Gutiérrez has expressed a whole range of views, as well as the other people who were interviewed. We took this into account and it seemed to me – but I can be wrong – that Mr Gutiérrez was very happy with the work. He was pleased with the initiative that was taken and the excellent climate that prevailed during our committee work between the opposition and the majority. So I didn't feel like I picked up a slap! So you're talking about the Future. We talked about it a lot and a long time in committee. This is reflected in our colleague Mr Crusnière's report and the point that is interested in this issue is recommendation number 13, where it is clear that we must advocate that the profession of journalist can develop in an economic and legal climate conducive to the healthy exercise of a credible counter-power within a democracy. The formula is obviously general, but this generality makes it possible to meet all cases, whether they are outside our borders or inside. With regard to the hypocrisy of our resolution, the MR or everything we do, I do not think I have a lesson to learn from a party that, of course, preaches communism, but this communism is not popular as you say, but a kind of populist communism that will seek arguments in the bottom of the basket. The hypocrisy that is yours, one will see it one day! But in the meantime, I repeat a term that I have already used: it seems to me that the summit of hypocrisy is the fact that the great figure and spokesman of the PTB who dictates to the workers what they must do, states their way of suffering, the hardness of the work, the fact of getting up early in the morning at 5 o'clock, of going to work all day and suffering the horrors imposed on him by a boss, Mr Hedebouw, acknowledged, in front of the press, that he had never worked in his life. The Workers' Party is led by someone who does not know the realities of work. If it's not hypocrisy, I'll ask you to explain to me what it is! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u193	About your personal attack on Raoul Hedebouw [[(...)(....).]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u194	These personal attacks have nothing to do with the debate. Personally, I never make a personal attack. If sometimes I quote names, they are related to the current debate and demonstrate a thesis that I am putting forward. I don't attack a person because I have problems with her, but I'm quoting a person because it's related to a major dysfunction in this society. I don't know if you'll be able to understand that difference. This is a free attack you're launching. This isn't the first time. It's not based on anything because Raoul Hedebouw has worked and continues to do it. Besides, your remarks are not based on anything. "Ment, lie, there will always be something left of it!" I will not quote the author of this formula because it looks like I'm out of line. You call us populists, but it is because you lack arguments that you usually use that kind of bird name. But, Mr. Miller, I'm a little surprised at your attack. I may not have been clear enough in my speech, but we will support your motion for a resolution. I'm just saying that at first, she was a bit of the kind of "do what I say, not what I do", that we were giving lessons to the whole world without looking at what's happening in Belgium. It's customary in your house. When I said that Mr Guttiérez gave you a slap – I said "a little slap" – I did not say that he was not happy with this initiative. I'm glad myself. But here he faced your responsibilities by reminding you that Belgium was missing from your text. Fortunately, it has been slightly remedied. I would have wanted more, but that's it! That's the reality, Mr. Miller! You don't have to get mad! We're gonna vote for your text. Be happy! If you want us to abstain or vote against it, say it! I'll listen to your arguments. Mr. President, I do not understand Mr. Miller's annoyance. I noted the hypocrisy of a few resolutions, but I had already done so at the time. There's nothing new. I find that the process of personal attacks is not very elegant on his part.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u195	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u196	Request/Demande 19(n) • 20 – Véronique Caprasse (1934/7) ******
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u197	The vote on the amendments that have been tabled and on the whole of the proposal will take place later. The vote on the reserved amendments and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u198	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 2776: Vincent Van Peteghem, An Capoen, Tim Vandenput, Richard Miller, Stéphane Crusnière, Benoit Hellings, Georges Dallemagne, Wouter De Vriendt - 2775: Elio Di Rupo, Stéphane Crusnière, Philippe Blanchart, Gwenaëlle Grovonius.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u199	The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt. 85, 4) (2776/6) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt. 85, 4) (2776/6) Het opschrift in het Frans werd door de commissie gewijzigd in "proposal for a resolution on the execution of the death penalty against Professor Ahmadreza Djalali in Iran". The title in French was changed by the committee to "proposal for a resolution on the execution of the death penalty against Professor Ahmadreza Djalali in Iran". The meeting's open. The discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u200	Mr President, I refer to my written report. I will speak later on behalf of my group.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u201	Ladies and gentlemen, the Djalali case is a situation which is well known in the meantime because of all the commotion that has rightly arisen in recent weeks and months. Mr Djalali, an Iranian-Swedish physician, specializes in disaster medicine and regularly came to our country because he regularly taught disaster medicine at the Vrije Universiteit Brussel. In April 2016 he was on a trip to Iran and was arrested by the security forces, without a warrant for his arrest. He didn't get a fair trial. He was placed in isolation, had no access to lawyers, couldn't choose his own lawyer, made a statement under pressure, was tortured, saw his family threatened and you name it. In October 2017, he was sentenced to death for espionage. Only his lawyer was able to see that judgment, but he himself did not receive any official notification of it. Despite appeals to the Supreme Court, that did not happen in the end. Last Saturday, we received the disturbing news that no appeal had been filed, and so the Supreme Court can continue the death penalty and have the execution executed in principle. For the sake of clarity, the use of the death penalty is a violation of human rights and human dignity. The death penalty is an absolutely inhuman punishment for which no moral, legal or religious justification can be relied upon. The country where this would now be applied, Iran, is a country that applies the death penalty very much. According to Amnesty International, 567 people were executed in 2016. That's per capita execution rate the highest number in the world. According to Human Rights Watch, this was often the result of unfair trials. The Djalali case is also an unfair trial in which there is no evidence of espionage or any other abuse. This Chamber, like other parliaments, is concerned about the situation of Mr Djalali. That is why we have tabled this resolution. This resolution was supported in committee by all the groups. I would therefore like to thank all my fellow Members for their cooperation and support in this resolution, particularly Mr Crusnière, who had also tabled a resolution but who wanted to contribute to a common text on this issue. The content of our resolution is clear. We call for the death penalty not to be applied in the Djalali case and we ask for a fair trial for this professor. In this respect, we must support all diplomatic démarches at Belgian and European level. Any step we can take here can possibly stop the death penalty. This resolution also supports the work of Amnesty International, which itself has launched a petition with more than 30 000 signatures, but also of the Free University of Brussels, which has already made a great deal of effort in this matter. We also strongly condemn in this resolution the use of the death penalty in Iran and the violation of human rights. We have tabled amendments to update the text. We also call very explicitly for Mr Djalali to be pardoned for the death penalty. We have also used the resolution to give a number of other concerns. Firstly, the Hamid Babaei case, a PhD student at the University of Liège who was sentenced to six years in prison in 2013 in the Islamic Republic of Iran on the basis of a legally questionable conviction on national security and cooperation with enemy states. We also want to raise this issue because there is a link with our country. Of course, we would also like to stress in this resolution that other things also clearly show increased pressure and propaganda. People with dual nationality or strong ties with the West are very often targeted. There is currently an example from the United Kingdom. Mrs. Zaghari-Ratcliffe has been apprehended in Iran. The unfair trials and sentences for the death penalty are, in any case, a trend which we must monitor. We must try to stop this at international level and bring it to our attention. Thank you in advance for your support. Hopefully this resolution will be adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u202	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we all know that Iran scores very badly in terms of human rights and women's rights. We also mentioned it earlier during Question Time and the debate on our new diplomats. Let us also reflect today on the fact that men are also victims of human rights violations on a daily basis. Iran has numerous political prisoners and, as Mr Van Peteghem just mentioned, is one of the world champions when it comes to executions. Current President Rohani seems to be continuing this line, regardless of his moderate image in the rest of the world. What happens in Iran is usually a far-from-us-bed show, but now it also gets us closer to home, especially by the capture of Dr Djalali who is also connected to the VUB. The story is now very well known. He was accused of espionage for Israel, imprisoned and sentenced to death. Although it is, of course, impossible to draw up a resolution for every poignant case of human rights violations anywhere in the world, we were of the opinion that this time it could be useful to give increased publicity to this case. In this way, we will also give Minister Reynders a little more power in his negotiations with Iran on this case. This resolution is certainly also useful in the context of our global fight against the death penalty in general. That is why N-VA will support this resolution and we have also signed it immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u203	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this is a serious time. The motion for a resolution that is being debated today concerns the case, both concrete and worrying, of Dr. Djalali, an Iranian citizen residing in Sweden and visiting professor at the VUB. He was sentenced to death on 21 October last for "corruption on land", in connection with alleged espionage activities, following an unfair trial and tainted with torture. No evidence was provided to support such a conviction. It is more than likely that his greatest fault is simply to have exercised his academic profession. These accusations were launched after his refusal in 2014 to use his academic relations in Europe to carry out espionage activities on Iran's behalf. This conviction recalls the situation of Hamid Babaei, an Iranian student of the ULg sentenced on 21 December 2013 to six years' imprisonment for violating national security through communication with hostile states - in this case our country - after he refused to spy on Iranian students living in Belgium for the Iranian Ministry of Intelligence. Despite this death sentence, Professor Djalali's lawyer did not appeal to the Iranian Supreme Court. His execution therefore seems inevitable, according to the VUB and according to his wife. Dr. Djalali is a prisoner of conscience. In support of the initiatives already taken by our diplomacy, our assembly must exert maximum pressure on the Iranian government not to execute this capital sentence, which must be overturned. Our group attaches great importance to this issue. That is how we also took the initiative to table a resolution, attached today to the text of the majority, which I then co-signed and amended. While, in this context, the diplomatic work of our country is essential, particularly for the abolition of the death penalty, for freedom of expression and for the right to a fair trial, we cannot ignore the initiatives of civil society in this regard. At the moment, under the leadership of Amnesty International, a demonstration is taking place in front of the Iranian Embassy in Brussels. Let us not forget, however, that this particular case of a visiting professor of the VUB illustrates a much more global and problematic situation, as the Chamber was able to see during a mission in which I was also able to participate. The Islamic Republic of Iran is known, despite some signs of openness, for its numerous human rights abuses — as denounced by the United Nations. The Iranian authorities thus impose severe restrictions on freedom of expression, association, peaceful assembly and religious belief. It is common for opponents of the regime to be arrested and imprisoned after unfair trials before revolutionary courts. The use of torture and other forms of ill-treatment of detainees remains widespread, with the greatest impunity, as well as the death, flogging, amputation and other cruel punishments, not to mention the discrimination and other violence to which women and many minorities are subjected. In this context and in the context of the Belgian candidacy for a non-permanent seat on the Security Council, our governmental and parliamentary diplomacy cannot remain silent. It is about the life of Professor Djalali and the struggle of our country against the death penalty all over the world.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u204	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to stress one very important point. This may not happen often enough, but I want to say so. Specifically in the Committee on External Relations, we often have very constructive debates, I would also like to stress, because we are democrats committed to human rights. We are committed to fundamental values and universal law. This usually allows without too many small political games to bring strong proposals. I would like to thank all colleagues for the constructive work that we are doing not only in this case but also in many other cases. The defence of human rights is a priority of Belgium's foreign policy. This has often been recalled. Among them, we Liberals are expressing our support for respect for the rule of law and fair justice in which the rights of the defence are respected. Didier Reynders, our Minister of Foreign Affairs, is paying attention to it all over the world and putting this requirement on the agenda of all its meetings. A specific case has been mobilising the academic world for weeks, many associations, diplomats from many countries and, of course, the political class. Ahmadreza Djalali, a visiting professor at the Vrije Universiteit Brussel, was sentenced to death in Tehran on 21 October. Why? For intelligence with Mossad, the Israeli secret services, for cooperation with hostile states and for actions against Iranian national security. The Iranian Supreme Court has just confirmed his conviction and, as has been said by my colleagues, no appeal has been brought, voluntarily or not, knowing that his lawyer has not appealed to the Supreme Court. Following his conviction, the judicial proceedings concerning him were therefore completed. We know that the Iranian-Swedish university student was arrested in April 2016 in Iran. If there are shadows on the veracity of the charges against him, on the physical and psychological torture he has been subjected to since then, on the evidence of the prosecution, on our part, we doubt the fairness of his trial and his possibilities to fully exercise his rights of defence. According to his family, his execution would now be inevitable and probably even imminent. Our Assembly takes a firm stand against this situation, against this trial, against the procedure used, against a death sentence and against its execution. The Reform Movement recalls its commitment to the fight against the death penalty, regardless of the facts alleged. We are mobilizing for a pardon, for a review of this trial and even for a request for release. We support the efforts of our diplomacy, Swedish diplomacy and Italian diplomacy, as well as those of the High Representative of the European Union, Federica Mogherini. We support the steps taken by our Foreign Minister, who, in his political contacts with the Iranian authorities, advocated abolition or moratorium on the death penalty and a fair trial. All the deputies of this assembly support all the steps that you can still try, alone or in collaboration with your counterparts, to save the life of Ahmadreza Djalali. Could we hope for a strong political gesture on the part of the Iranian authorities so that at least a fair trial can be held?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u205	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, our group will naturally support this resolution. It is important that we send a strong signal to the Iranian authorities, as the previous speakers have said in detail. It is not because, after the nuclear agreement, we are re-establishing an economic link with Iran, that we must close our eyes to the massive violations of human rights in the country. Nor does the EU. Sanctions against Iran are still in force because of human rights policy. However, we should not limit ourselves too much to criticizing certain dossiers, because they are just connected with our country. This particular criticism must fit in with a foreign policy in which the general situation in the country is also being sued. In this sense, we are very pleased that Minister Reynders states in his recent policy paper that the fight against the death penalty is a priority for him. There is still much work to be done in Iran in the fight against the death penalty. Last year, according to Amnesty International, 567 executions were carried out. Moreover, the death penalty is still being applied to children and people convicted of minor offences, such as drug crimes. It is completely contrary to several international treaties, which Iran itself has ratified. I would like to call once again from our group on the Minister to raise this issue at every meeting and to mobilise it at European level in order to increase the pressure on Iran in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u206	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as my fellow Members have said, Professor Ahmadreza Djalali is a specialist in disaster medicine. In this capacity, he is a guest professor at the Vrije Universiteit Brussel. He's been locked up in Tehran since April 2016. He is accused of working with enemy states and activities against Iranian national security. In October 2017, he was sentenced to death without a fair or public trial. He asked the lawyer who assigned him to appeal against it, but he didn't do it for reasons we don't know. That became known on December 10th. Thus, the execution of the death penalty for Professor Djalali seems inevitable. Just because of the absurdity of the accusation of espionage and the mockery of fair justice that has been the norm in this case, several governments in our country have severely condemned the verdict. Amnesty International also condemns Professor Djalali's death sentence and considers him a prisoner of conscience who was only convicted and detained because of his refusal to use his academic ties to spy on Iran. Many statements of support came from the academic circles in our country. The fate of Professor Djalali has struck them in the heart because he is such an important, inspiring example of the strength of university cooperation. We consider the purpose of this resolution to be important and will therefore fully support it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u207	Mr President, Ecolo-Green obviously supports this resolution. It is a poignant example of a cruel punishment, an unfair trial and intimidation of anyone who goes abroad to work from Iran. The man was wrongly accused. It is therefore very good that Parliament is sending a signal to this effect. We sometimes think that all that is useless, but it is not. In diplomatic matters, such signals are given in respect of Tehran. It is important that we make Iran realise that such behaviour, the death penalty, has a diplomatic price. There was an action just before at the Iranian embassy in Brussels. I was there. I have, together with a number of fellow Members of Parliament, put copies of the resolutions adopted in our various parliaments in the letterbox of the embassy. There was a lot of people, it was a good action. Let us hope that political, diplomatic and public pressure can really help. Mr Djalali clearly did not get a fair trial. This could also be an appeal to our government to continue to work on monitoring processes, which we sometimes monitor in the countries where we are diplomatically active. We also do that in China. We regularly send diplomats to processes to watch for a piece and to give the signal that the international community is watching. These kinds of cases really call for that policy to continue. Ladies and gentlemen, let us adopt this resolution quickly because it is, of course, quite urgent. Let us hope that the death penalty will not be implemented and that what we are doing here in this House, and others in other parliaments, will also help. Finally, I would like to thank Mr Van Peteghem for taking the initiative to work on this resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u208	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u209	• 8 • Vincent Van Peteghem cs (2776/7) Request/Demande 1 • 9 • Vincent Van Peteghem cs (2776/7) Request/Demande 2/1(n) • 10 • Vincent Van Peteghem cs (2776/7) ******
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u210	The vote on the amendments that have been tabled and on the whole of the proposal will take place later. The vote on the reserved amendments and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u211	By letter dated 1 December 2017, the first President of the Council of State informed that the General Assembly of that Council, at its open session on 20 June 2017, has drawn up a list of three candidates for a vacant post of French-speaking assessor in accordance with Article 80 of the coordinated laws of the Council of State, as a result of the expiry of the mandate of Mr Christian Behrendt's assessor on 16 April 2017. By letter dated 1 December 2017, the first President of the Council of State informed the House that, at its public hearing on 20 June 2017, the General Assembly of that Council had proceeded, in accordance with section 80 of the Coordinated Acts on the Council of State, to the establishment of a list of three candidates for a vacant position as French-speaking assessor, following the expiry of Mr.Christian Behrendt's term of office on 16 April 2017. It was proposed by the Council of State, however, without unanimity: The Council of State, however, did not unanimously present: First candidate: Mr Christian Behrendt, - simply professor at the Université de Liège and at the KULeuven; - assessor in the Law Department of the Council of State. First candidate: Mr. Christian Behrendt, - regular professor at the University of Liège and KULeuven; - assessor to the legislative section of the Council of State. Second candidate: Mr Michel Delnoy, - lawyer at Liège's desk; - Hoogleraar aan University of Liège. Second candidate: Mr. Michel Delnoy, - a lawyer at the Liège Bar; - Professor at the University of Liège. Third candidate: Mr Marc Bourgeois, Professor and Director of the ′′Master de spécialisation en droit fiscal′′ at the ′′Université de Liège′′. Third candidate: Mr Marc Bourgeois, ordinary professor and director of the "Master of Specialisation in Tax Law" of the University of Liège. Since the nomination is not unanimous, the Chamber may, in accordance with the eighth paragraph of Article 70 (1) of the Laws of the Council of State, coordinate on 12 January 1973, either confirm the list proposed by the Council of State, or propose a second list of three names which are expressly reasoned. Since the presentation is not unanimous, the Chamber may, in accordance with Article 70, § 1, paragraph 8, of the Acts on the Council of State coordinated on 12 January 1973, and within a period of not more than 30 days from the receipt of the communication of that presentation, either confirm the list submitted by the Council of State or present another list of three formally reasoned names. Any nomination of a list by the Chamber shall be made on the basis of applications received by the Council of State. These applications are limited to the three candidates mentioned above. The possible submission of a list by the Chamber should be based on nominations received by the Council of State. The applications submitted are limited to the three applications mentioned above. The time limit available to the Chamber to submit a list or to confirm the list shall expire on 5 January 2018. The time available to the Chamber to present a list or to confirm the list expires on 5 January 2018. Agreement the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 12 December 2017 will provide the nomination of the Council of State and the CVs of the candidates to the political groups. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 12 December 2017, the presentation of the Council of State and the curriculum vitae of the candidates will be forwarded to the political groups. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u212	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 12 December 2017, I also propose that you consider: - the bill (Mr Frédéric Daerden cs) abolishing the regularization contribution, No. 2841/1; - the legislative proposal (Mr Frédéric Daerden cs) on the detailed financing rules of the Consolidated Pension Fund of the provincial and local authorities and their additional financing, No. 2842/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u213	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 12 December 2017, I also propose that you take into account: - the proposal for a law (Mr Frédéric Daerden et al.) to abolish regularisation contributions, No. 2841/1; - the proposal for a law (Mr. Frédéric Daerden et al.) concerning the financing of the consolidated pension fund of local and provincial governments and its additional financing, No. 2842/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u214	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u215	Mr. Chair, we have tabled two proposals related to the mixed pension, in order to meet Minister Bacquelaine's dual concern. On the one hand, he said that the conflict-of-interest procedure initiated by COCOF would put the liquidity of the Consolidated Fund in difficulty. On the other hand, he said that this procedure would oblige him to apply the regularisation contribution which he intended to abolish by his draft. We have therefore tabled two proposals (Nos. 2841 and 2842) so that it is not concerned about this and we ask that the urgency be given to them, in order to resolve the problem by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u216	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on this request by sitting and rising. We first decide on the urgency of Bill No. 2841.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u217	This decision also applies to the Bill No. 2842?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u218	The Government requested urgent procedure under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the draft law establishing Sciensano, No. 2795/1. The government requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure at the time of the tabling of the Bill establishing Sciensano, No. 2795/1. Before we decide on this request, we will hear the government's motivation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u219	Mr President, the urgency is being asked as the planned date for the start of Sciensano is 1 March. In order to meet this starting date, several implementing decisions still need to be taken. The proposal was adopted at first reading this week.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u220	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u221	The Government also requested urgent procedure under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the draft law introducing a paragraph 4 in Article 29 of the Law establishing Sciensano, No. 2796/1. The Government also requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when introducing the bill inserting a paragraph 4 in Article 29 of the Law on the Establishment of Sciensano, No. 2796/1. Madam Secretary, I assume the same motivation applies. [[Yes]] I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u222	The Government also requested urgent procedure under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the draft law on various provisions relating to agriculture and certain budgetary funds, No. 2829/1. The government also called for urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when introducing the bill on various provisions in the field of agriculture and certain budgetary funds, No. 2829/1. We listen to the government's motivation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u223	Mr President, the urgency is justified by the fact that the draft law contains provisions that must be absolutely published before 31 December 2017. These are the charges provided for in Article 4 of the Law of 9 December on the financing of the Food Agency. It also covers fees and contributions due to the Budgetary Fund for raw materials and products. This bill was unanimously adopted by the Health Commission on 12 December 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u224	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u225	The Government also requested urgent procedure under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the draft law on various provisions relating to the social status of selfemployed persons, No. 2830/1. The Government also requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when introducing the bill on various provisions concerning the social status of self-employed persons, No. 2830/1. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u226	Mr President, here the urgency is justified by the fact that certain provisions of the draft law apply to pensions calculated on the basis of the social contribution for quarters from 1 January 2015. Since the administration of the Treasury has already notified the RSVZ of the initial income, the provisions must enter into force without delay.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u227	I suggest you join us and stand up and say something about urgency. I suggest that we take a stand and raise the matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u228	The Government also requested urgent procedure under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the draft law introducing a tax on securities accounts, No. 2837/1. The government also requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the bill introducing a security account tax, No. 2837/1, was introduced. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u229	Mr President, in line with the Summer Agreement, a tax on securities accounts is introduced. The tax is part of the budget format 2018. The reference period shall be 12 consecutive months. She starts on October 1st and ends on September 30th of the following year. For the year 2018, the reference period shall be exceptionally limited to nine months. It starts on 1 January 2018 and ends on 30 September 2018. For these reasons and out of respect for legal certainty and the principle of non-retroactivity, the urgent handling of the draft in question is justified.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u230	Mr. Speaker, the minister reminds us that this bill is the result of the July agreement and that the government has taken all its time, for reasons that everyone knows, to finalize the text tabled, which will soon be considered by the Finance Committee. The emergency is therefore ordered by the fact that you have fallen behind. It's not Parliament's fault you're late. I believe that the urgency is unwarranted and unwarranted and that you are preventing us from working in good conditions that would allow us to carry out in-depth parliamentary work. This is totally unacceptable! I believe that what you are doing is, once again, a prank in our attempts to build a work that is respectful of both Parliament and the government. I invite you to think carefully about what you are about to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u231	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u232	The government also requested urgent procedure under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the draft law on economic re-launch and the strengthening of social cohesion, No. 2839/1. The government also called for urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the draft law on economic recovery and the strengthening of social cohesion was introduced, No. 2839/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u233	Mr President, with regard to the title of Corporate Tax Reform, the motivation is that a number of measures could create problems with retroactivity if the law is not published before 2018, which would also have an impact on the financing of the reform. For many companies, this reform has a major impact and a lack of adoption and publication of legislation before the end of the year could have a substantial impact on public shareholders' notifications, on companies' planned investments and on the legal certainty of the text in general. For the title Work, it is also necessary to vote on whether that date should be postponed to 31 December under the law of 5 March 2017 on workable and manoeuvrable work. These sectors must have a legal basis for concluding collective agreements by 31 December at the latest. The title Social Affairs is also one of the key elements of the Summer Agreement. It is important that the Summer Agreement be implemented as a whole and that the whole package be approved by Parliament. Since certain elements should start on 1 January, this section should also be dealt with in accordance with the same timing. The fact that the effective entry into force is 20 February does not alter the fact that the title would not be urgent and this for the following reasons. Several implementing decisions remain to be taken. These can only be submitted to the Council of State once the legal basis is in place, after which a period of 30 days must be respected. The declaration shall be programmed in accordance with the procedures laid down in the law. It is up to Parliament to decide on the modalities proposed by the government and if it wishes to amend them. Only after Parliament has given its assent can the declaration be finalized. Without this declaration, the system cannot enter into force on 20 February. This declaration must be available for some time before 20 February so that citizens and associations can make their declarations in advance. There's also a telecommunications hatch. The legislative framework is urgent, as the KB can only be advised with technical details by the Council of State and signed by the King after approval of the law. The launch of the new function should then be postponed to a later time than planned. Finally, the title Fiscal and financial provisions. A number of measures would create problems in terms of retroactivity. In Chapter 2, on the private privaks, a number of provisions make changes. The rules on withholding tax shall enter into force from 1 January. Chapter 7 is also included as well as Chapter 8 on the exemption from the transfer of the farm levy. Chapter 9 on excise duties should also enter into force from 1 January. Finally, the entry into force of Chapter 10, on the financial provisions, should take place before the end of the year in order to be able to correctly calculate the contributions in 2018 in accordance with EBA's rules.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u234	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. On how many texts will the majority ask us for urgency today? And I'm complaining to Minister De Block who's on duty tonight! This is the text on which the majority is asking for urgency. We are on 14 December and this is the transposition of a so-called agreement dated 26 July. Is this government really serious? Do you really want the provisions, all these provisions to apply from 1 January? For our part, Mr Van Biesen, we are available to work late in the evening, on Saturday, including between Christmas and New Year. I don't know if that's the case with the majority. Earlier, in the Conference of Presidents, we made a clear proposal with the opposition colleagues to try to save what could be saved in relation to the easing that is the result of the non-action of the government and the continuing disagreements within the federal majority. We expect answers to the proposals put forward and discussed in the Conference of Presidents. For our part, we intend to do the most serious work possible on provisions that will have an impact on all our citizens, both in terms of labour regulation and in terms of corporate tax. We expect a clear signal from the majority on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u235	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I share my colleague Gilkinet's words about the deplorable situation in which the government is putting this Parliament by distributing documents to us the day before a very important project is to be discussed. As far as the urgency is concerned, I would like to point out that the government, since the summer, has had time to work and present the project to us earlier. I think there is an urgent need for this project to significantly increase the deficit programmed in the 2018 budget. Indeed, no one believes in fiscal balance, not even the government. Therefore, if the government wants to meet the budget deficit, we must not decree the urgency and at least we will find a balloon of oxygen for public finances.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u236	Mr. President, with your permission, I was arrested by Mr. Van Quickeborne told me it wasn't this case. Mrs De Block, could you please tell us if you confirm Mr De Block's comments. Van Quickenborne? Is that what we're talking about?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u237	Mr President, I think Mr Van Quickenborne was a little confused. I'm fine. I'm fine. I'm fine.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u238	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, I have, of course, already read the documents. The opposition's question is to take two passages, I repeat: only two passages, out of the text, i.e. 500 euros extra and the starter jobs. That's all the opposition's asking. Colleagues, from the whole bundle we are proposing we want to remove less than 5%. That is the reality. Know your lyrics.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u239	Mr Van Quickenborne, I think Mrs De Block is right. You're a little confused. You're in a mess too. But that's something else! Mr President, we must realize that we have just taken possession of this matter today. We're being asked for an emergency. Again, this was allegedly agreed in July. We find ourselves six months later having to examine these documents, in a few days and in an emergency. It is not simply a lack of respect for the opposition, it is a lack of respect for parliamentary work as such. How do you want us not, for example, if we wish, if we consider it necessary, to bring this matter before the Council of State to have certain provisions validated? I'm still talking on the assumption. Mr President, I ask you to call on the government representative and the majority to reconsider their willingness to call for urgency. If this continues, the opposition's efforts in terms of openness, to make parliamentary work possible, will no longer be on the agenda. I apologize, but let's be clear!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u240	Mr President, in addition to the seriousness of the work to be carried out at the legislative level, in addition to the delay between the summer agreement which has become a winter agreement, in addition to the content of the texts – Mr Van Quickenborne, you may say, I am not sure that this is 5% – in addition to what you put on the table and in particular the EUR 6 000 defiscalised, de-parafiscalised, there is above all the perverse effect of all these measures which will have to be taken into account. So if, for you, that's 5%, for the sectors concerned, that's a lot more! As such, it is not uninteresting. But with regard to the consequences of unfair competition for the self-employed, the impact on the non-market, on the voluntary sector, on voluntary work, this raises a large number of questions. But even more so, Mr.President, and it is your responsibility and that of the Prime Minister – I turn to you, Minister De Block, because you represent the government, including the Prime Minister, and to the Prime Minister's party – the Concertation Committee has been seized on this issue. The Consultation Committee is scheduled for December 20th. The Prime Minister knows about this. These are points that have been introduced since 6 December last. The majority's desire to have a vote on the matter, even before the concertation committee meets, is a real blow to federal loyalty to federated entities. This is totally unacceptable! I therefore call on the majority and you too, Mr President, to take into account, in an important way, the constructive proposal made by the opposition. The aim is not to prevent texts to be implemented by 1 January from moving forward. But, on the other hand, for what is to come into effect only in February or even July 2018, we have time to work on it and, above all, a dialogue can then take place in a responsible and fair manner with the federated entities and the sectors concerned. In this, the government has openings and reflections to make. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u241	Mr President, I think Mr. Van Quickenborne did not understand the opposition's approach. This is not a request for it, but a proposal. The provisions of this text pose a problem for all the social partners; not only the representatives of the workers, but also the UNIZO, the Union of the Middle Classes, the Union of the Self-Employed. The National Labour Council as a whole said, after the Court of Auditors and the High Council of Volunteers, that the measure to exempt 500 euros from income per month for certain categories of workers would constitute unfair competition and would deregulate the labour market. These are very serious problems. To the extent that the government has decided that these measures, if voted, will only come into force as of March 1. Tell me where the emergency is! We propose that the majority withdraw from this text the provisions which are problematic. It is not a request, it is a proposal so that we can work in the best conditions by 31 December.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u242	Thank you, Mr Gilkinet. We take note of each other's words, but as the urgency has been requested, we must decide. I would suggest that we speak out on the question at the sitting and getting up. I propose that we rule on this request by sitting and rising.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u243	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 79 Yes No. 54 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law on the Resources Budget for the financial year 2018. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2689/6) As a result, the House passed the bill containing the Ways and Means budget for the 2018 fiscal year. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2689/6) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u244	Mr President, for tonight's votes, I have agreed to pair up with Mr Pivin, who is on a mission abroad.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u245	Vote on Amendment No 7 by Veerle Wouters cs on Article 2.01.6. (2690/43) Vote on Amendment No 7 by Veerle Wouters cs to Article 2.01.6. (2690/43) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 5 Yes No. 116 No Abstentions 13 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and the Article 2.01.6 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2.01.6 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 8 by Veerle Wouters cs on article 1-01-2. (2690/43) Vote on Amendment No 8 by Veerle Wouters cs to Article 1-01-2. (2690/43) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / Fin du vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 5 Yes No. 127 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 134 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 11 by Barbara Pas op artikel 1-01-2. (2690/43) Vote on Amendment No 11 by Barbara Pas to Article 1-01-2. (2690/43) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 5 Yes No. 129 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 134 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 12 by Barbara Pas op artikel 1-01-2. (2690/43) Vote on Amendment No 12 by Barbara Pas to Article 1-01-2. (2690/43) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u246	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 9 by Veerle Wouters cs on article 1-01-2. (2690/43) Vote on Amendment No 9 by Veerle Wouters cs to Article 1-01-2. (2690/43) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u247	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 10 by Veerle Wouters cs on article 1-01-2. (2690/43) Vote on Amendment No 10 by Veerle Wouters cs to Article 1-01-2. (2690/43) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u248	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 13 by Barbara Pas op artikel 1-01-2. (2690/43) Vote on Amendment No 13 by Barbara Pas to Article 1-01-2. (2690/43) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u249	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 1-01-2 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 1-01-2 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u250	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes [[80]] Yes No. 53 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft general budget for the financial year 2018. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2690/45) Accordingly, the House adopted the draft general budget for the 2018 budget year. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2690/45) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u251	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 81 Yes No. 32 No Abstentions 21 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2731/7) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2731/7) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u252	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 134 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2756/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2756/04)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u253	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes 131 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2765/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2765/5) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u254	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes 132 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2772/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2772/5) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u255	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes 133 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2755/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2755/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u256	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes 131 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 131 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2779/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2779/4) Nawal Ben Hamou, Gwenaëlle Grovonius and Kattrin Jadin voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u257	Vote on Amendment No 17 of Véronique Caprasse inserting recital L/1(n). (1934/7) Vote on Amendment No 17 by Véronique Caprasse to insert a recital L/1(n). (1934/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 12) Yes 52 Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 134 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 18 of Véronique Caprasse inserting recital Q/1(n). (1934/7) Vote on Amendment No 18 by Véronique Caprasse to insert a recital Q/1(n). (1934/7) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u258	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 19 from Véronique Caprasse to insert an application 18(n). (1934/7) Vote on Amendment No 19 by Véronique Caprasse to insert a request 18(n). (1934/7) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u259	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 21 by Stéphane Crusnière cs to insert a request 18(n). (1934/7) Vote on Amendment No 21 by Stéphane Crusnière cs to insert a request 18(n). (1934/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 13) Yes [[42]] Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 12 Abstensions Total 134 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u260	Vote on Amendment No 20 from Véronique Caprasse to insert a request 19(n). (1934/7) Vote on Amendment No 20 by Véronique Caprasse to insert a request 19(n). (1934/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 51 Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 132 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u261	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 15) Yes 133 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 134 Total Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (1934/8) Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (1934/8) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u262	Vote on Amendment No 8 by Vincent Van Peteghem cs inserting recital B/1(n). (2776/7) Vote on amendment No 8 by Vincent Van Peteghem cs to insert a recital B/1(n). (2776/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 16) Yes 133 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 133 Total The amendment was therefore adopted. Consequently, the amendment was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 9 by Vincent Van Peteghem cs on request 1. (2776/7) Vote on amendment No 9 by Vincent Van Peteghem cs at request 1. (2776/7) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u263	The amendment was therefore adopted. Consequently, the amendment was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 10 by Vincent Van Peteghem cs inserting a request 2/1(n). (2776/7) Vote on amendment No 10 by Vincent Van Peteghem cs to insert a request 2/1(n). (2776/7) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u264	The amendment was therefore adopted. Consequently, the amendment was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u265	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 17) Yes 132 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution, as amended. It will be notified to the government. (2776/8) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution, as amended. This will be made known to the government. (2776/8)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-14-54-plenair-ip205x.u266	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for next week's meetings. We need to approve the agenda for next week's sittings. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Wednesday 20 December 2017 at 10 a.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting Wednesday, December 20, 2017 at 10.00 hours.
