ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-14-54-commissie-ic715x.u1	Mrs Smaers, you have the floor for your question. 18791 under point 5.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-14-54-commissie-ic715x.u2	Mr President, my first two questions on the agenda may be answered in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-14-54-commissie-ic715x.u3	Questions Nos 18791 and 18834 by Mrs Smaers are converted into written questions. Mrs Jadin is not present, her questions Nos 18957 and 18958 are set aside. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Klaps' 19197 was converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Lijnen's 19218 will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Pivin's 19296 was postponed. Then we come to the combined questions about the dispatch of French-language declaration forms for the personal tax to Brussels Flemings.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-14-54-commissie-ic715x.u4	Minister, there are a lot of Brussels Flemings who have received a tax return form in French, which, of course, is contrary to the language law in administrative matters. Normally, the general rule is that the administration in Brussels bases itself on the data in the national register for the purpose of determining the language of the person concerned, but in this case this is clearly not the case, because the various persons who have informed me of that language exchange are indeed people who go through administrative life as Dutch speakers, since they also have a Dutch-language identity card. It can therefore be assumed that they are also known as Dutch speakers in the National Register. As a result of these incidents, the person who informed me of the problem made a telephone call to the administration, in particular to the contact centre of Finance in Brussels. There he was informed that the new taxpayers who were introduced into the system this year were automatically registered by the administration in French because there would seem to have been technical problems with the computer programs. The explanation given to him was that the Technical Service of Finance would be aware of this, but did not intend to rectify the matter on its own initiative. Those Dutch speakers who have received a French-language declaration form may, for example, be informed by the contact centre at their local office in order to request a language change on an individual basis and to obtain a Dutch-language declaration form. However, it appeared that in the specific case of the person who telephoned the contact centre, his local office was temporarily closed and that he had to turn to the contact centre with which he was talking and that nothing could change in the end. Minister, I cannot get rid of the impression that the administration of finance, which is responsible for the English speakers of Brussels, is not at all as it should be. This situation is in any case contrary to language legislation. It is not new that mistakes are being made against language legislation. I can refer to a written question by Mr Vanvelthoven. I should also like to refer to my written question No. 1044, which may also be relevant. I've been waiting over a year for the answer to that. Maybe the reason why I haven't gotten an answer to it is similar. Such situations certainly ensure that Dutch speakers are treated by that service as second-class citizens. They cannot have to take steps themselves to obtain their language rights instead of being granted them automatically, as they should. Do you confirm that there was a technical problem with sending the tax returns? How many people were they talking about? Is it true that all new Brussels taxpayers who have received French-language declaration forms? Has the problem been identified before the dispatch of those declaration forms? If so, do you not think that this problem should first be solved rather than sending the Flemings French-language forms? A second question is whether it is normal for those Brussels Flemings who have received a French-language declaration form to apply for a Dutch-language form on an individual basis, as that contact centre informed? Can you explain where the responsibility lies? On what service? How many Dutch speakers and French speakers are employed in this service? After we have raised this issue, I have read a statement from the FPS Finance Department that a new letter would be received and a postponement of the deadline. Will it also be accompanied by an apology letter and will the necessary delay be allowed for the submission of that declaration? Finally, will you take any further steps to ensure that such situations are avoided in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-14-54-commissie-ic715x.u5	I agree with this question, it is on the same subject. In 2017, it appears that for the first time, declaration forms were sent in French to persons who are listed in the National Register as Dutch. Mrs Pas has pointed out that it is explained that the technical service is informed. What is ultimately the solution for those involved? Mr President, I would like to repeat Mrs Pas's questions. Are you aware of this problem? If so, what steps can be taken to ensure that individual taxpayers are registered in their mother tongue?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-14-54-commissie-ic715x.u6	I believe that Mr Van Biesen and Mr Vanvelthoven have similar questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-14-54-commissie-ic715x.u7	Mr Minister, my fellow Members Mr Pas and Mr Van Rompuy have already given the necessary explanations. According to our information, this would indeed be a computer error. I'd like to get a confirmation of this. I shall come straight to my questions, since the problem has already been outlined by my fellow Members. Can you indeed confirm that Dutch-speaking taxpayers in the Brussels-Capital Region who have to file a personal tax return for the first time did not receive a Dutch-speaking declaration but a French-language declaration? Can you tell us how many taxpayers we're talking about? Could the problem of computer science be corrected? If so, when? Will you take measures to resolve this painful problem? How much is this operation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-14-54-commissie-ic715x.u8	Mr President, I will also confine myself to my questions, since the problem has already been explained. Mr Minister, will you correct this error and automatically deliver a new declaration in Dutch to all the new Dutch-speaking taxpayers in Brussels? Will you also postpone the filing of the tax return in an accompanying letter, as the error lies with the FPS Finance?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-14-54-commissie-ic715x.u9	Mr President, the General Administration of Taxation cannot base itself on the data of the National Register for determining the language of the declaration in the personal income tax. The language of the taxpayer shall be determined on the basis of its own databases. This method has already been thoroughly analysed in relation to the cases cited. It was indeed a computer error that was detected and the necessary analyses were made. There will therefore be further refinement and redevelopment, not only of the databases but above all of their use. I myself and the administration of finance are very well aware that language legislation must be respected in a very secure manner. The administration shall first of all make every effort to identify those taxable persons who wrongly received a declaration in the wrong language, to send them a new declaration and, given the complications, to grant them the appropriate delay. Reloading around 560 new declarations in the correct language corresponds to a cost of approximately 450 euros. The total cost of reprinting and sending the approximately 1 900 simplified declaration proposals is about EUR 1 200. In total, that is about EUR 1 650. These new declarations are, of course, subject to the legal provisions of the Code. For example, in accordance with the WIB 92, the taxpayer will have another month to return his declaration. Finally, although it is nothing to be proud of, for the sake of completeness, I would also like to say that not only Dutch-speaking Brusselsers have received a declaration in the wrong language role, but that this was also the case for a number of French-speaking Brusselsers who have received a declaration or a proposal of simplified declaration in the wrong language. Of course, everyone in the approach, in the correction and in the follow-up will be treated in the same way.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-14-54-commissie-ic715x.u10	Thank you, Minister, for your answer and for the clarification. It is the logic itself that new declarations are sent in the right language. However, I find it particularly regrettable that there was different communication from the Treasury service and from the contact centre, where a kind of second-rate treatment was given to those concerned by sending them to a local service in order to obtain a declaration in their own language. It is a pity that we did not respond until after we brought the matter before the Court of Justice. A faster response, as is happening now, would have been appropriate, along with apologies.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-14-54-commissie-ic715x.u11	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-14-54-commissie-ic715x.u12	Minister, you say that this is an information problem, on the one hand, but it is very difficult to detect the language of the taxpayers concerned, on the other. This led to the sending of 560 new declarations and 1 900 simplified declarations. How can it be an IT problem if you cannot actually detect the language of taxpayers? What will you be basing yourself on in future for declarations by new taxpayers in Brussels if you do not have information about their mother tongue or the language they wish to use in their administrative documents? How can you correct the computer error in the future if you do not have the necessary data?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-14-54-commissie-ic715x.u13	The FPS has its own databases, in which that data should be correct. It has been found that this was not the case in those cases. They have their own databases in which language data should be correct. Fortunately, in most cases this is the case, but not in 100% of the cases, as has now been shown. Work is under way to get as close as possible to the one hundred percent.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-14-54-commissie-ic715x.u14	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-14-54-commissie-ic715x.u15	Debates of the European Parliament Mr de Lamotte's 19399 question was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-14-54-commissie-ic715x.u16	Mr President, Minister, to be precise, my question concerns the tax section of the second pillar of the supplementary pension, which is the pension for self-employed natural persons. The department of Minister Borsus has been working on this for some time, and your cabinet is also cooperating. I have already asked some questions on the subject, such as when the regulation would be completed. It has been answered several times that the draft would be ready before the recess. That is why I have an obvious question. After all, I suspect it will not be there before the recess. However, the government had indicated that this would happen. Mr. Secretary, when do you expect it? Has the tax aspect of the new regulation already been dealt with in the Council of Ministers? Has the Council of State delivered an opinion? What is the content of the opinion, if any? Finally, can you indicate when we can expect the design?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-14-54-commissie-ic715x.u17	Mr President, Mrs Smaers, you yourself have summarised the situation so far. It is incredibly complex, as you know, to coordinate these matters properly and to ensure that we do not have to put repair legislation on the table within six months. Those technical discussions are in the final stage. We are going to do everything we can to ensure that we have a first reading in the Council of Ministers as soon as possible, so that it can go to the Council of State and then be settled. However, I do not want very specific timetables.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-14-54-commissie-ic715x.u18	Mr President, Minister, I hope that it can work as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-14-54-commissie-ic715x.u19	Mr Minister, this question has kept me busy for a while, so I would like to put it to you. It is an important question for the finances of many local authorities. Recently, you presented a very good draft law for a system of advance payments for the payment of the additional income tax, which provides additional stability for the municipalities' finances. However, I would like to go even further. I refer to the Belfort test, which is included in the Flemish coalition agreement, but not in the federal coalition agreement. What does the Belfort principle mean? If measures are taken by a government, in this case the federal government, which has an impact on local finances, for example the tax shift, then the Belfort principle means that a local review must be carried out before taking that measure. For example, if a federal measure has an impact on local finances, what should we do to remedy that or compensate for the impact? Following the reforms brought about by the tax shift, it was announced at the time that there would be an assessment of the impact of those measures on Entity II. Has that evaluation taken place yet? What are the results of that? How do you view a consistent assessment of the impact of federal government decisions on local authorities? How do you view the application of the so-called Belfort principle in the federal government's policy?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-14-54-commissie-ic715x.u20	We have been very transparent to the municipalities about the tax shift. Each municipality has received an individual note from my administration showing in detail and per year the impact of the various reductions in charges that have been made. In 2018 there will be a new phase in the tax shift, which will of course be palpable for the municipalities in 2018. We're doing the same exercise right now. We will communicate in the same way, individually with each municipality, and create transparency in the same way. The Belfort principle seems to me to be a sound principle. You yourself indicated that it was in the Flemish government agreement. It's Flemish policy. It was not included in the federal government agreement, but it seems to me to be a very useful idea, given our already very complex state structure, to apply that principle in a number of decisions that will clearly have an impact at local level.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-14-54-commissie-ic715x.u21	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. We look at the further impact of the tax shift on the local authorities. We look forward to the additional communication you announce for the second phase. It is very good to communicate very openly and transparently on this issue. It is also expected to be so that people know clearly what the next phase of the tax shift will mean in the coming years for the multi-annual investment and multi-annual programme of the municipalities. I think it is good that you feel that the Belfort principle should also be included at federal level as a test for the federal measures. If we can both be partners to respect the Belfort principle in federal government policy, then perhaps we can actually introduce it in the next few years at federal level.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-14-54-commissie-ic715x.u22	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Dedry's 19649 is deleted. Questions Nos 19661 and 19662 by Mr Vanvelthoven are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-14-54-commissie-ic715x.u23	Minister, you have repeatedly pointed out or wondered that there are some companies that you have been able to lure here from the United Kingdom in the context of the Brexit. However, it would only be a few dozen jobs. It is striking to note that there is someone who is negotiating for the Minister with a view to attracting financial companies from London. I would have liked some specific information on this. Mr Secretary, what exactly is the negotiator doing? What is there to negotiate in particular? What mandate does he have?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-14-54-commissie-ic715x.u24	Mr Vanvelthoven, an employee of the Finance Office.................................................................................................................................................................................................. For the record, all these insurance companies are not going to walk out of London, they are coming to Brussels with a pied-à-terre, because they assume that due to the Brexit a somewhat dual approach is needed. So it's no more or no less than that. A number of contacts were made at that seminar a few months ago which led to the situation we have today. For your information, I would like to explain that Lloyds of London is a very complex company. It is a company with 60 or 65 sub-undertakings, insurance markets and reinsurance markets. What has played a particularly important role in Lloyds of London's decision to choose Brussels as their pied à terre in mainland Europe is that the National Bank, which, as you know, is the regulator of this sector, has developed a regulatory model which is fully in line with the legislation and European directives in this area and which is nevertheless sufficiently workable. This can be done in terms of efficiency of control, and of course there are several ways that lead to Rome. The people of the National Bank have worked very hard on this, they have developed a regulatory model that is close to the way Lloyd's already worked in London, taking into account Belgian legislation. Honor to all who deserve credit. It is not the minister who lures the companies here, but it is a global whole. Regulation must be there and must comply with the law, but at the same time it must take account of the specificities of the companies concerned in an efficient way. As far as my associate is concerned, he has been to that seminar and has made a number of contacts. These contacts have contributed to the situation today. The second part of your question concerns the jobs. That is indeed limited in a first phase. There's no discussion about that. I've never made a secret of that either. There's definitely potential in that. What is particularly interesting is that there is a great deal of know-how in it, which may not have been entirely available in Brussels today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-14-54-commissie-ic715x.u25	Mr President, Minister, if I understand correctly, there is no permanent hunt in London from your cabinet. More has just happened to come from a number of contacts and our regulator will be ready to pull them over the line.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-14-54-commissie-ic715x.u26	That's a summary I can agree with.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-14-54-commissie-ic715x.u27	Minister, the European Court of Justice has ruled in relation to the fairness tax that there is in a specific case a conflict with a provision of the Parent-Subsidiary Directive. It is then about dividends returned by a Belgian intermediate holding company. As expected, the Court followed the opinion of the Advocate General in its ruling. In the meantime, you have had plenty of time to make a technical analysis. I would have liked to have heard from you whether you agree with my reading, which I believe is also the reading of others who have more expertise in this area, that, in order to remove the contradiction of the fairness tax with the Parent-Subsidiary Directive, it is sufficient to limit or reduce the taxable basis of the fairness tax, Article 4 (3) of Directive 2011/96/EU, when that company, within the scope of the same directive, pays dividends which it itself has received and which it redistributes. We have tabled a legislative proposal on this matter to get this resolved as quickly as possible. I would have liked to have heard your opinion on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-14-54-commissie-ic715x.u28	As regards the whole issue of fairness tax, I would like to remind you that the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 17 May 2017 referred to it for a preliminary ruling by the Constitutional Court. In fact, there are three questions for a preliminary ruling. I would like to take this up with you. The first question concerned a possible infringement of the freedom of establishment following discriminatory treatment of non-resident companies engaged in an economic activity in Belgium through a permanent establishment in respect of a resident Belgian company. The applicant and the Commission have held that the method of calculating the taxable base could lead to a heavier tax on non-resident companies, since the method of calculation results in that non-resident company being taxed on profits other than those generated by the Belgian permanent establishment. The Commission has also clarified that a permanent establishment is subject to the tax even if the profits of that permanent establishment are not part of the dividends paid by the non-resident company. The Court of Justice replied to that first question that it was for a national court, in this case the Constitutional Court, to determine whether the method of calculating the taxable basis of the fairness tax would mean that the tax treatment of a non-resident company engaged in its business in Belgium by means of a permanent establishment would not be less advantageous than that to which a resident company is subject. The second question referred for a preliminary ruling, whether the fairness tax constitutes a withholding tax within the meaning of Article 5 of the Daughter-Mother Directive, was answered negatively by the Court of Justice, as you may know. Finally, as regards the third question referred for a preliminary ruling, and following the Opinion of the Advocate General, the Court of Justice held that Article 4 (1) (a) of the Parent-Subsidiary Directive, read in conjunction with paragraph 3 of that Article, precludes a national tax scheme, as in the present case, in so far as, in a case where a parent company pays the profits received from its subsidiary only after the year in which it received them, those profits are taxed to a greater extent than the ceiling of 5% laid down in that provision. The above concerns the case of redistributing dividends eligible for the FDI deduction. On this basis, Article 219b of the Income Tax Code 1992 seems to have to be technically amended, so that the ceiling of 5% for such dividends redistributed under the terms of the Directive is not exceeded by the fairness tax. However, it is now up to the Constitutional Court to rule on the possible adverse treatment of a non-resident company which carries out its business in Belgium through a permanent establishment, as raised by the Court of Justice in response to the first question referred for a preliminary ruling. In addition to this question concerning the violation of European law, the Constitutional Court must also rule on the constitutional nature of the regime of fairness tax. In the action for annulment of the fairness tax, the applicant also alleged an infringement of the constitutional principles of legality and equality. At this stage, at which the elements just indicated play, it seems premature to propose a legislative amendment without knowing the content of the judgment of the Constitutional Court. As soon as that judgment is delivered, it will of course be followed up.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-14-54-commissie-ic715x.u29	Mr President, I note that the Minister is awaiting the judgment of the Constitutional Court. That can, of course, be delayed for a while.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-14-54-commissie-ic715x.u30	Questions Nos 19736, 19737 and 19738 by Mr Klaps are converted into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jadin's 19764 is deleted. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Quickenborne's 19764 is deleted. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Klaps' 19783 was converted into a written question. Questions Nos 19665, 19666, 19667 and 19668 by Mr Vanvelthoven are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-14-54-commissie-ic715x.u31	Minister, Belgian families, one of the partners of which is the largest earner in the Netherlands as a frontier worker, are affected by a discriminatory tax measure. They are not entitled to the tax-free allowance for dependent children in Belgian tax returns. You have already indicated that there will be an administrative regime for the 2016 revenue year and that a legal adjustment will follow in 2017. In connection with this problem, there are a lot of objection procedures in place today in the Belgian tax administration from the year 2013. However, those objections are still being maintained at the moment, as long as the Belgian legislation has not yet been amended, even though a number of court rulings are still pending, I refer, inter alia, to a judgment of the appeal court of 22 September 2015 in which the taxable person is right. When taxpayers ask the administration why the various objections are not met, despite the court rulings, they get the answer that they are waiting for further instructions from the FPS Finance on the handling of the objections and they also say that they are not bound to do so, which is true of course to a certain period of time to deal with them. The mediation service has already been activated. He, too, claims to be in no position to act against this course of action. The amount is, of course, increasing every year, which means that for some it is already an amount of more than EUR 10 000. Prime Minister, what progress has been made, firstly, with the adaptation of Belgian legislation to this problem which you announced earlier? Secondly, when can taxpayers expect their objections to be dealt with, given that judicial decisions have already been taken in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-14-54-commissie-ic715x.u32	The government is currently discussing a draft law amending Article 134 of the WIB 1992 as from the 2018 tax year in the sense of the administrative regime set out in a circular dated 18 May 2017. The aim is to bring the draft law to the Council of Ministers as soon as possible so that it can be submitted to the Council of State for its opinion and then submitted to Parliament as soon as possible after the summer recess. The circular of 18 May 2017 can be found on the website of Fisconetplus and also contains guidelines for the handling of administrative and judicial disputes, which unfortunately go hand in hand with this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-14-54-commissie-ic715x.u33	Mr. Secretary, I'm gonna have to check that circular. Hopefully, this circular will solve the problems of many frontier workers who often fall between shore and ship.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-14-54-commissie-ic715x.u34	Minister, I have been informed that gifts obtained through a crowdfunding platform are not eligible for a tax certificate, even if the organisation has a recognition to issue tax certificates. Can you clarify whether donations via crowdfunding platforms are effectively excluded from the application of the deductibility of gifts? If so, is this based on an overly literal interpretation of the legislation? Are you prepared to look for solutions to this? After all, it is an important element that donations through crowdfunding could receive a tax certificate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-14-54-commissie-ic715x.u35	Mr President, gifts received by a recognised institution through a crowdfunding platform fall within the legal provisions of the tax relief for cash donations, when the conditions for online donations are respected. These conditions are set out in the Circular No. 42/2014 of 16 October 2014 referred to and explained. As mentioned in the answer to Parliament's question No. Mr Dedecker's 254 of 23 June 2015 is not clear whether those conditions have always been met in such a case. Nor is it clear whether your question is a specific case. If that is the case, I would ask you to provide me with the information so that the administration can examine what is going on, if any, and also whether there is anything wrong.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-14-54-commissie-ic715x.u36	Minister, I have received this question through a federation of crowdfunding platforms. A lady sent it to me saying that there is a big problem in the organization. It is a kind of professional federation or a forum. I'll get you that letter.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-14-54-commissie-ic715x.u37	Debates of the European Parliament 19808 by Mrs Van Cauter, under agenda item 32, was taken under item 6. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Lahaye-Battheu's 19825 question was converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Deseyn has been withdrawn since Mr Deseyn is not present. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Pivin has been postponed to 19878. Questions Nos 19914 and 19941 by Mr Flahaux are deleted, as we have not heard from Mr Flahaux. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Van Hoof's 19960 question was converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Lanjri's 19963 question was converted into a written question. Minister, that is how we have completed the agenda, just within the given time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-14-54-commissie-ic715x.u38	Thanks for that.
