ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u1	Madam President, Minister, we know that we will have to wait several years before the establishment of the Southern RER network for the Brussels Region. While there are many reasons for road congestion in Brussels, this lack of RER obviously does not help to improve this situation. However, since 2015, SNCB has already strengthened its suburban transport offer through the S network. Thus, more than 700 trains run every day in this network, which paradoxically remains too unknown although it concerns some 30 stations and a wider network than that of STIB's metro. But while some stations accommodate several trains per hour, others are reduced to a single one-hour pass, even during peak hours. Indeed, the influx remains very limited. This lack of supply in some places probably explains my finding at the moment. The question of new stations and the addition of trains on this East network therefore seems to me essential. So, could you tell us how many users used the S network in 2015, 2016 and the first six months of 2017? Can your services provide me with the names of the most frequented S network stations and what are the precise statistics? What is the budget allocated by SNCB for its S network in 2015, 2016 and 2017? What is the budget allocated by lnfrabel for the infrastructure of the S network for the same years? What budget has SNCB decided to carry out awareness campaigns on the S network and what budget has been decided to strengthen the signaling of this network in the Brussels Region and on the peripheral rail routes to Brussels? What initiatives have been taken recently to raise awareness among non-Bruxellois and Brusselsers of the public transport offer of the S network? What will be the next step forward?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u2	Dear colleague, SNCB informs me that it cannot answer about the number of users of the S network because there is no link between the ticket and the train borrowed. In the case of the ER, SNCB invested the following amounts, in euros, over the three years: 5.4 million in 2015, 0.9 million in 2016 and 2.6 million – Amendment 2017. Under the RSP, Infrabel invested the following amounts over the period 2015-2017 as the funds were in the process of being depleted: $109.7 million in 2015, $52.8 million in 2016, $44.1 million in 2017. Based on passenger counts in October 2015, the top ten of the busiest stations in the suburban network are Brussels-Midi, Brussels-Nord, Brussels-Central, Ghent-Saint-Pierre, Leuven, Ottignies, Mechelen, Liège-Guillemins, Charleroi-Sud and Denderleeuw. On the RER, SNCB recalls the distinction between the RER, which is an integrated mobility solution, and the S.C. offer is important. The RER isn't just the train. The train is the backbone, but all components of public transport must do so. The Regions have forgotten a little, but they have been reminded and work is under way. It is therefore an integrated multimodal mobility solution within a radius of 30 km around Brussels. The S offer is the rail component of the RER. The RER is all public transport in the crown of 30 km; the S offer is the rail offer which is in the RER. It is important to distinguish between the S offer that has existed since December 2015, and the four-lane infrastructure works on certain lines, in particular those linking Nivelles and Ottignies to Brussels. With regard to awareness-raising and information, SNCB states that it is aware and convinced of the need to increase awareness of the S offer among citizens and commuters. In this regard, various actions are being carried out or are being prepared. 1. Columns with B and S logos are being installed to indicate access to Brussels S stations, which number 34. Applications for permits are currently under way from the Brussels-Capital Region and the municipalities. I can tell you that it's anything but simple and it's not a long, quiet river, even to plant posts 15 cm in diameter and 3 m high. It's been going on for a year and we've been told another year of time. I hear that we are waiting for responses from SNCB. Maybe, on either side, we need to accelerate the movement a little bit. The trains are there but the signage is not there and we have serious concerns to get the town planning permits. 2. A promotion campaign is currently under way to promote the S offer.This is a continuous campaign during 2017 on SNCB's own channels as, for example, on its website. This communication is complemented and reinforced by two advertising campaigns: one in May-June and the other in September, including a display, a distribution of cards and flyers for motorists, the distribution of table sets for horeca, digital media. At the end of the year, the information campaign on the new transport plan will also be the subject of a specific declination for the S offer. Finally, SNCB begins to meet with the mayors and members of the Mobility Council of all the municipalities in Zone S with one or more stations in their territory in order to explain to them the offer S, the relevant or specific offer, the advantages for the municipality and to offer them promotional material which each municipality can relay to its citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u3	Minister, thank you for this extremely comprehensive answer. From the outset, you have indicated that it was impossible to determine the number of users of the S network. If this is the case, how do you measure the degree of ignorance of this network?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u4	As far as counting is concerned, it is necessary to have a presence in order to have a rational form of counting and not just impressions. We must therefore be able to place ourselves in the stations where the S offer is present and count the number of users who climb and descend trains. This has not yet been done. I can tell you that users of the S offer testify that these trains are currently empty or almost empty, and also that some of them have expressed themselves in the press through the carte blanche in a great daily. A contest (Maestro Mobile) took place two or three weeks ago, and people who had the opportunity to use these trains find that even on the weekend, they are not very attractive. There is therefore a lack of awareness-raising. The mind shift will bring the abandoning of the cars to the train. But that's another problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u5	Question No. 19924 by Mrs Jadin is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u6	Mr Minister, on Wednesday 20 July the Brussels Court of First Instance sentenced the Belgian State to stop the violations of the Brussels-Capital Region's noise decree. In the meantime, your services have announced that the State will not appeal this judgment. For the road known as the Canal, the judge asked you to cease the offences for the day as for the night. For the so-called "Ring" road and landings on Runway 01, she asked to stop the commission of offences for the night only. The judgment is clear: it requires you to conduct an environmental impact study in relation to all the nuisances caused by the activity of Brussels Airport. The judge gave you four months to try to find a solution, under penalty of 100,000 euros a week. So, Minister, when are you considering presenting your long-awaited comprehensive solution? I am thinking of my ninth or tenth question on this. Will your draft vliegwet and its annexes - in preparation - take into account the case law in general and that which was recalled by the judgment of 20 July 2017, namely the respect of the Brussels regional environmental standards and the idea of establishing an environmental night from which all residents could benefit, regardless of the Region where they live? How do you plan to respond to this judgment by changing the routes to the IPAs and by what time frame? Could you give me some details of your schedule and method? Will these changes be subject, each time, to an environmental impact study, as the judge urges you to do in general?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u7	Minister, I will not repeat all the comments made by Mr Hellings. I come directly to my question. What steps are you going to take to comply with the court's judgment rendered in mid-July and to relieve the residents of the Canal Road?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u8	Colleagues, following the ruling in the RBC-WSP case, the government, on the basis of my proposal, made the decision not to appeal the decision and instructed me to consider proposals for measures to respond to the operative part of the judgment. The judgment does not prohibit the overflight. It does not prohibit overflight of any area, but invites action without affecting the airport's capacity. This is therefore a step forward in the protection of the environment for the inhabitants of Brussels. As a reminder, the judgment provides for three elements: to stop violations of the noise ban on the Canal Road; to stop violations of the noise ban on the Ring Road and the 01 Landing Road for the period from 11 p.m. to 7 a.m.; to conduct an environmental impact study of the operation of the Brussels airport. A fourth point is incidental. The purpose is to provide a monthly list of aircraft on the Canal route from 2 a.m. to 7 a.m. Before the end of November, I will propose operational measures to the government to respond to this judgment. A timetable for the implementation of these measures will also have to be presented. These measures will then be exposed to the Brussels Region, as provided for in the judgement. The judgment states that the measures presented cannot affect the airport's capacity and leaves the door open to the fact that certain operational measures are not possible. I do not intend to use this door if other ways are possible. This solution will obviously have to include several measures, whether legal, operational or institutional. The will is always to find a solution that is global and not solely related to judgment, which targets only part of the Brussels Region. Nothing is said, in the judgment, about the problem of the left turn which was nevertheless part of the request, the Noordrand or Leuven. Some of these areas are also subject to further judicial action. I have already instructed my administration to draft a specification and procedure for the implementation of the impact study on all routes departing and arriving from Brussels Airport, regardless of the region, and a schedule thereof. This study will also take up possible alternatives and allow everyone to have an overall view of the situation with regard to noise pollution. It is also my intention, following the audit carried out by DGTA, to clarify the wind standards and the PRS in force in order to ensure that all actors have a common reading of them, which has not been the case so far, and thus to put an end to the controversy of interpretation which is currently between the actors.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u9	Minister, thank you for your answers. I hear that, at the end of November, you are going to submit measures to the government. This is not likely to be the overall plan announced, but a detailed response to the judgement. I understand, as you do, that it was not in the judge's view that the capacity of the airport was limited by that judgment. It just calls for compliance with environmental standards that have been systematically validated by all judicial bodies in that country, including the highest. It is also true that if you do not want to touch the capacity of the airport, you will have to pass the loudest planes elsewhere. I think that's what you'll have to do. This is obviously not going to appeal to everyone, but what is certain today is that absolutely all regions can have strict environmental standards aimed at ensuring that the health of the citizens who live in these regions is respected. The Brussels Region has already done so, but the Flemish Region could do so. It could adopt the same rules as the Brussels Region, in order to enforce an essential right, that of the right to health. On the other hand, that you have launched this market for an impact study is excellent news. This is very interesting, because when we are able to discuss the measures you are proposing at the end of November, it will be on the basis of studies which, I hope, will be made public, accessible to Members, citizens and associations in all regions of this country.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u10	Minister, thank you. The end-November deadline means that we will probably be able to discuss it very quickly. I also hear you're going to clarify the PRS. It's important. It is known how the audit showed that the interpretations were divergent and varied according to the roads at Belgocontrol. I imagine the deadline is the same, that is, at the end of November. As far as impact studies are concerned, I will be a little less positive than my colleague. It is only the specifications that is being drafted and not....
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u11	The judgment states that it is "within twelve months of the judgment".
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u12	Mr Hellings, twelve months by the end of November, there is a margin. So we will return to you, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u13	Madam President, I would like to turn my questions Nos 20269 and 20270 into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u14	That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u15	Minister, on 23 June 2017, the European Commission proposed to invest €2.7 billion in 152 key transport projects that will contribute to competitive, clean and connected mobility in Europe. The bulk of the funding will be devoted to the development of the European rail network, amounting to €1.8 billion. Other selected actions include flagship initiatives such as the modernisation of air traffic management systems for EUR 311.3 million. Minister, what are the railway-related projects that Belgium has submitted under this European financing plan? Commissioner Violeta Bulc referred to the removal of bottlenecks. Can we dream of a solution to bypass the Nord-Midi link in Brussels? Is there a possibility of European refinancing of the RER? How would Belgium benefit from the amendment of the ATM system?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u16	Dear colleague, last June, the European Commission announced the results of the call for projects launched in October 2016 as part of its Connecting Europe Facility programme. A total budget of EUR 1.9 billion was foreseen for this call for projects. The Belgian railway projects for which an application for subsidies was made during this call are: 1. electrification of the Mol-Weert line on Belgian territory; 2. the connection of the Athus logistics platform to the French rail network; 3. a study on the optimisation of the railway infrastructure between the port of Ghent and the port of Terneuzen; 4. the adaptation of the braking systems of 4,157 freight cars to make them quieter. Requests for subsidies have also been submitted for the deployment of ETCS on different sections of the Belgian railway network and on rolling stock operating in Belgium. Apart from some requests for ETCS, which are quite small, all applications for subsidies have been accepted by the European Commission. This is therefore an excellent result if we take into account the significant competition that our projects have had to face. The Nord-Midi junction is clearly a bottleneck for domestic passenger transport, but also for international transport, since it is used by trains from France, Germany, the Netherlands, Luxembourg and the United Kingdom. In recent years, my services have on several occasions been able to draw the attention of the European Commission to the problem of linking. A study co-financed by the European Commission is currently being carried out by Infrabel and SNCB to identify one or more solutions to overcome this bottleneck. Depending on the results of this study, a new request for subsidies may be made to finance not the studies but the implementation of the solutions chosen. As far as the RER project is concerned, the possibilities for European funding are more limited as it is a project with, above all, a purely national dimension. In the coming years, we will continue to pay attention to all sources of funding, knowing that with the decision of the Council of Ministers of 22 March 2017, state funding is guaranteed at approximately one billion. I'm not going to go into the details, we'll come back to it. As far as the air sector, ATM and its environment are concerned, here is a list of the projects selected in the context of the calls communicated by the Commission on 23 June and comprising Belgian entities. The Shared ATC System (SAS) 2: grant of 5.56 million to the Ministry of Defence to renew its air traffic control capabilities on the basis of a data service provided by the Eurocontrol Centre in Maastricht. I invite you to contact the Defence for further information. As part of the SESAR project, Deployment Programme Implementation 2016 - Cluster 1 - General, Brussels Airport Company participates in the following sub-projects: - Enablers for airport surface movement related to safety net: 13.4 million grant. The aim is to improve the ground radar system at Brussels airport. - Airport Operations Plan, Network Operations Plan, which has a grant of EUR 140 000 and concerns the coordination of the airport and Eurocontrol as operator of the ATM network. These two sub-projects will enable Brussels Airport Company to meet some of the technical requirements of European Regulation (EU) No 716/2014. This list shall be understood as excluding international organisations established in Belgium, in particular Eurocontrol and SESAR, which receive European aid. The proposed subsidy for the equipment of the general aviation fleet with radios to the standard of 8.3 khz to the aviation clubs established in Benelux, Ireland, Germany, Switzerland, Austria, Spain, Norway, Sweden, Finland and Denmark was not accepted.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u17	Minister, thank you for this very comprehensive and thorough answer, as well as for the success rate you have been able to achieve in terms of railways. As I understood it, the project to link Valenciennes to the Borinage was not included in the projects introduced.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u18	No. It was not in the projects introduced because the robustness of this project in international agreements had not yet been sufficiently studied. However, it represents a much lower amount for Belgium (2 million) than for the French. But that is their problem; it is up to them eventually to introduce it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u19	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u20	Mr Minister, the opening up of new investment credits and the appointment of Mr Hansen to the head of the GEN Steering Committee opens up prospects for a kick-start for the long-term completion of this important mobility project for our capital and the Rand. The message that the final hand is being put on the line to Denderleeuw is happy news for me as a resident of the gate to the Pajottenland. Schepdaal is a submunicipality of Dilbeek, with more than 40 000 inhabitants. The problem of traffic congestion from the Pajottenland to Brussels is an old one. The doubling of railway capacity between Denderleeuw and Brussels, also known as line 50A, within the framework of the GEN, provides an excellent opportunity to solve a large part of the traffic problem in my region by opening a stop at Schepdal and to increase the profitability of the GEN. That's a pure win-win situation, no doubt. Four municipalities have already spoken out for the opening of the stop. That shows its importance. I have the following questions, Minister. Do you believe that opening a stop in Schepdaal offers opportunities for the opening of the Pajottenland region? Are you prepared to instruct SNCB to carry out a new investigation in the context of the new situations outlined above in order to provide a stop point on line 50A in Schepdaal? I can tell you in concrete terms that the platform is already there. Basically, we are waiting for a formal yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u21	Mr Janssens, SNCB informs me that, when drawing up the plans for bringing line 50A between Brussels-South and the Sint-Katherina-Lombeek branch, it was extensively examined whether an additional station could be constructed without compromising the speed of this railway line for other passengers. A new train station in Schepdaal near the Ninoofsesteenweg was an option that was extensively studied in the official Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA). However, a further analysis of the EIA's results shows that a Schepdaal station would generate net only 50 new public transport users, including a shift of passengers from existing stations to this new station. Since the construction of a new train station in Schepdaal currently presents more disadvantages than advantages, both for the traffic clearance on the N8, the Ninoofsesteenweg and for SNCB, that station is not included in the building request. SNCB therefore informs me that the construction of a stop in Schepdaal is not foreseen.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u22	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'm a little disappointed, though. Let me just say that we won't let this go. It's about a region with over a hundred thousand inhabitants. I understand there might be conversations with The Line. The stop an sich is there, the platform exists. I hope that in the coming weeks, months or years it will be possible to make effective work of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u23	Debates of the European Parliament 19959 by Mrs Inez De Coninck will be converted into a written question. Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mr Flahaux's 20269 and 20270 are also converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u24	Minister, the results of an international study conducted by Test-Achats, among others, show that air passengers' rights are being violated in 75% of cases. The survey of 11,000 passengers from 8 different countries (Australia, Belgium, Brazil, Denmark, France, Italy, Portugal, Spain) for a total of more than 20,000 flights reveals that airlines generally benefit from the ignorance of the passengers concerned. Specifically, if a flight is delayed longer than 3 hours, passengers must be compensated. However, in practice, only 25 per cent of travellers receive this compensation. In addition, a delayed flight may result in financial losses, for example, when travellers miss their connections or do not arrive in time to take advantage of an already paid trip or other scheduled activity. According to the figures of the study, it seems that this misadventure concerns about one in ten passengers but, for the moment, there would be no consumer protection legislation. Minister, have you been aware of this study carried out by Test-Achats in particular? What should be kept in mind? Can you confirm to me that no legislation exists for passengers missing a connection or not arriving in time to enjoy an excursion? Would it not be interesting to introduce legislation on this subject to further protect consumers? What are the solutions to further improve passenger rights and compliance by airlines?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u25	Dear colleague, I have taken note of the international study conducted by Test-Achats. This study concludes that airlines do not always protect passengers' rights and that they still have too many advantages to gain from passengers' ignorance. Air carriers are still not providing sufficient information to passengers on the causes of the delays. It can be seen, however, that if the passenger disagrees with the airline, he or she has the opportunity to file a complaint with the Mobility and Transportation FPS. If no amicable agreement can be reached between the airline and the passenger, the passenger will also have the opportunity to refer the matter to a court. If an airline is neglected on several occasions, the Inspectorate will also prepare a report and may, if necessary, impose an administrative fine. In the event that a single reservation is made including a connection between two or more aircraft, Regulation 261/2004 applies and protects the rights of passengers. On the other hand, in the case of two different bookings of connecting aircraft, this regulation is not applicable. Regulation 261/2004 does not apply to multimodal journeys, more than one mode of transport and a contract of carriage. As such, they are not covered by this regulation or other EU legislation on passenger rights in other modes of transport. If a passenger misses a flight due to a delay in his train, he would only be entitled to compensation and the corresponding assistance provided for in Regulation 1371 of the European Parliament and of the Council for the journey by train, and only if he was more than 60 minutes late on arrival at his destination. By analogy, other provisions apply in the event of a flight missing as a result of the delay of a ship or coach under a contract of carriage. However, under Directive 90/314 EC and Directive 2015/2302, tour operators may also be held liable for missed flights and the impact on the package as a whole, if the multimodal journey is part of a combination with other travel services such as accommodation. The obligation of information to which airlines must comply is a very important element of the rights of users, subject to control and inspection. Such inspections are carried out at airports and information is available on the airlines' websites. Furthermore, the Commission's website is very explicit on passenger rights. Finally, this information is also available on the website of the SPF Mobility and Transport which has broadcasted the information very widely in the weeks preceding the episode of massive cancellation of flights within the company you know.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u26	Minister, thank you for this comprehensive response. It is clear that there is currently no legislation on this issue. I think we need to ask ourselves how we can improve consumer protection. As you said, not all companies are ready to inform consumers properly. This problem needs to be addressed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u27	Mrs Lambrecht, Mr Van den Bergh sent me a message to tell you that he can be here in 10 minutes. Do you agree to wait?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u28	Mr President, I would like to ask the question now.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u29	Mr Minister, soon, baking bikes that are no wider than a meter will have the same status as a bicycle. This means driving these baking bikes on the bike path. Probably there are a lot of people riding a baking bike on the bike path, but today it is only allowed when it comes to a two-wheeler. So that's gonna change. Your service has prepared an adjustment of the road code. The adjustment could perhaps be introduced this year. The rules that are currently in place are very complex. At the same time, the number of baking bicycles in the street is increasing. Both drivers of baking bikes and many police officers don't know exactly what is and isn't allowed. Soon, any baking bike that is not wider than a meter, regardless of the number of wheels the vehicle has, would be the same as a bike. This means driving it on the bike path and allowing drivers to run into traffic in a number of one-way streets. In fact, these bikes have the same rights and obligations as an ordinary bike. For all other baking bikes, wider than a meter or motorized, different rules apply. With these vehicles one has to cycle on the road. They are covered by the same traffic rules as motor vehicles. Minister, I have a few questions about this. Firstly, do you support the initiative of your administration as proposed? Secondly, were there many problems with the current situation where no distinction is made between baking bikes wider or smaller than a meter? Thirdly, what are the current rules pending the new ones? Fourthly, when does the new regulation take effect?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, for the record, this is not an initiative from my administration but a proposal from the working group which is preparing a revision of the road code. The traffic rules clarify that a bicycle is the overall term for non-motorised vehicles that are driven by pedals or handles. The addition in Article 2, 15, 1 of the words "bike', "tricycle' or " quadricycle' makes the distinction in the traffic rules clear. A bike has two wheels according to the traffic regulations. A separate definition is not necessary. According to the current road code, three-wheeled bikes are similar to tricycles, which means that they cannot be allowed in opposite directions in one-way streets. Tricycles shall not use the ground and parking areas and outside the built-up area they shall not use the sidewalks and the raised sidewalks. Cyclists, on the other hand, can make use of this. For three-wheeled baking bikes with a maximum width of one metre, the choice is between the bicycle path and the road. Bikes with two wheels shall in principle not be more than one metre wide and shall therefore be assimilated to bicycles. The aim of the modification of the road code is initially to equate bicycles with bicycles with a maximum vehicle width of one metre. I do not have data on problems with the current situation, but since the maximum width of a bike is one metre, it seems coherent for the three Regions and the representatives of the police forces, who are part of the working group alongside the FPS Mobility and Transport, to equate baking bikes of up to one metre with bicycles. It is intended that the Working Group will finalise its work by the end of 2017, with a view to publication at the end of 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u31	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u32	Minister, the press has reported an increase in the number of attacks on SNCB staff, although this number has tended to decline since 2010. This would have resulted in 292 attacks in the first quarter of 2017, an increase of 5% compared to the first quarter of 2016. These attacks resulted in 592 days of incapacity for work. This new upward trend corresponds to the echoes I have received from SNCB staff who report growing malaise. I therefore ask you the following questions, Minister. What is the evolution of the number of irregularity reports made by the attendants over the last five years? What is the trend in the number of assaults related to these offences (no transport document, title at issue, etc.)?( )? What is the breakdown of the number of attacks according to the agents who are victims: escorts, security officers, other personnel? Can we establish a link between the increase in attacks, and possibly irregularities, with the introduction of the new tariff on board (the €7 supplement) introduced in February 2015? At what time of day is there the most aggression? Is it in rush hours in the morning? In the middle of the day? In the evening? Finally, one of the feelings of the attendants is that there are more and more aggressive problems with people dropping out of society. Is there any evidence to support this impression?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u33	Minister, according to the titles of several daily newspapers, for the first time since 2010, the number of attacks against SNCB staff is rising again, with 238 attacks in the first quarter of 2017, resulting in 592 days of incapacity for work. However, since 2010, the number of attacks had been steadily decreasing. They were 1,502 in 2010, 1,359 in 2012, 1,269 in 2014 and 1,051 in 2016. However, since the first quarter of 2017, the statistics show an increase for the first time. I would like to know what conclusions you draw from these figures. If you have drawn conclusions, what steps do you intend to take to address the problems raised by these results? What do you think are the main reasons for these acts of aggression against the agents? What psychological support is provided to them as a result of these difficult times?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u34	Colleagues, the SNCB informs me that the number of irregularities for the last five years is as follows. In 2012, 517,467 observations were made. In 2013, 554,079. In 2014, 531 145. In 2015, 360,041 and 2016, 266,500 observations, about half of the 2012 and 2013 figures. If we compare 2012 and 2016, the number of findings of irregularity has thus almost halved. The number of attacks against escorts also decreased in 2015 and 2016, while the introduction of the fare on board - the famous seven euros - dates back to February 2015. In recent months, an upward trend has been observed, but not for reasons related to transport tickets on board. SNCB recorded 456 facts in the first half of 2017, compared to 421 for the same period in 2016. This increase is mainly related to the departure procedure. Disputes related to it have increased by 50% compared to the same period in 2016. It is not said here, but I would remind you that last year, for twenty days, the trains had not been running. We didn't apply the three rule, but the subject might deserve to be done. While transport document disputes remain the main cause of the attacks, their number has not increased, unlike the number of cases related to the train departure procedure. As you know, during this procedure, the attendant closes all doors except his. Late arrivals want to force the passage. Remember Dinant's accident. The attendants are therefore informed that this procedure must be strictly followed. However, the number of travellers who want to force the attendants to let them go seems to be increasing. An analysis of the total number of assaults committed against train attendants in 2013 and the first half of 2017, shows that attacks occur mainly between 3 p.m. and 9 p.m. This is not even the night. SNCB informs me that it does not conduct a census of the number of attacks based on the authors' profiles. The determinant of a person dropping out of society is subjective. Such a census would also run counter to privacy legislation. You will find in the tables contained in the attachments that will arrive at you immediately, details of the evolution of the number of assaults on escorts since 2013, details of the reasons for the disputes and the number of assaults by type of dispute, and the breakdown of the number of assaults according to the agents who are victims (accompaniers, station staff, sales staff and Securail). In the area of psychological support, the victim of an assault can rely on the system of the buddy set up by SNCB for several years. These are colleagues trained to provide moral support and assist the victim in his or her actions. SNCB also has psychologists who can also be consulted, as well as prevention advisers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u35	Minister, thank you for your detailed answers. I am aware that closing the doors at the start of the train is a problem. This is one of the following questions on the agenda, if we can do so. I take note of the fact that according to the data you provide us, the introduction of the €7 supplement would not be a cause of the increase in attacks. I take note of the figures you give. It's true that I had a feeling that might have been different. As a traveler, I do not attend attacks, but verbal exchanges that do not always go well, without being able to speak of aggression. This rule of 7 euros does indeed give rise to a lot of resentment among travellers. Thank you for the data you provide. We will analyze them and eventually return to you, if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u36	Thank you too, Minister, for your complete answers. However, I note one element. You said that there was a period of strikes and that we should be able to compare. It would be interesting at some point to compare what is comparable and to have a clearer idea of the percentage of attacks. It is true that with this, if you have an increase because you have more working days, you should see in percentage what that has effect.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u37	We didn't check, but it's 8%.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u38	The crucial point that you highlighted in your answer is the departures that are problematic. Let us have the time, as my colleague said, to analyse the figures and we will certainly have the opportunity to come back, to understand what is a problem in terms of departures and the measures you are going to take in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u39	I'm sorry, but if you take 8% more or less over 180 days, you make 8% of 456, that's 34 or 35. You add 34 or 35 to the 421 and you have more or less the same numbers. It's a calculation that's worth what it's worth. I think we're in equivalence. I don't have more elements to go further.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u40	Minister, the number of migrants in Europe hiding under freight trains to enter the country of destination has increased considerably in recent months. That's what figures from the German police show. Last month the police found no less than 100 migrants there. In the Netherlands, too, it would be a well-known phenomenon. Is that phenomenon known here, too? If so, how many migrants have been intercepted on Belgian territory in recent months because they have been hiding in or under freight trains? Do you have figures for the last 12 months, broken down by freight operator if possible? Is there a procedure at Lineas that prescribes how staff should deal with such situations? Does Lineas also cooperate with the Belgian police services if necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u41	Ladies and gentlemen, Lineas is a private company and is therefore not obliged to answer parliamentary questions. Moreover, the company is only one of the active operators on the network and cannot give a global picture of the market. Lineas is counting on the other operators to be questioned on this subject as well. In order to get a complete picture, you should ask the Minister for the Interior. In recent years, Lineas has been confronted with the problems of refugees in freight trains only once. Lineas takes all possible safety measures at the departure of the train, initially to ensure the safety of the people, the goods and the trains, but also to avoid such incidents. Lineas informs me that it does not preclude such problems from occurring on his trains. However, know that every train is thoroughly checked before each departure, every stopover and every arrival. In the event of any incident, Infrabel and the local authorities are immediately notified. At the moment Lineas is mainly plagued by thefts or attempts to do so. In the last week alone, 13 trains were faced with burglary or attempted burglary. Various measures are taken to avoid this, including anti-theft beams and surveillance at Milano yard.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u42	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Given the events in the neighbouring countries of people who fell off trains or even froze to death, it is good that we are aware of the problem. You've outlined the procedure Lineas is carrying out. The operator must carry out the necessary checks during the departure procedure. I understand Lineas as a private company doesn't want to be the only one to provide the information. You're referring to your colleague. I'll take the necessary steps.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u43	Mr President, Minister, the city of Genk, together with the province of Limburg, submitted a grant application to the Flemish government in 2015 for the strategic project Kolenspoor. This subsidy application was assessed positively. The grant shall be used as a contribution to the cost of remuneration and operation for project coordination over a period of three years. In November 2016, the project coordination was assigned to Tweeperenboom CVBA. The coal rail strategic project was launched on 1 December 2016. The project coordinator has been working for some time now. The mission is to develop, manage and follow up various projects in collaboration with various partners, including SNCB and Infrabel. Minister, how are the contacts between SNCB and Infrabel and the project coordinator of the strategic project? What are the results of these contacts? Is it true that SNCB is planning to sell the Coal Rail? If so, which parts of the Coal Railway, through which procedure and what is the timing for that? What price does SNCB want to sell at? Are there any potential buyers for the coal trail yet?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u44	My dear colleague, SNCB has so far always had good contacts with the various stakeholders on the Coal Railway project. In carrying out its valorisation strategy of its buildings and its sites, SNCB will soon sell the part of the Coal Railway that is still owned but no longer used, between As, Genk, Maaseik and Maasmechelen, through market consultation. This sale will be launched in the course of the following months. The selling price will be determined on the basis of the tenders received by SNCB. That price cannot yet be communicated. SNCB knows that there are interested parties, but should wait for the final applications.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u45	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u46	Mr President, I apologise for my delay. Minister, the law of 14 April 2011 established the Mercury database. Meanwhile, it is operational for the identity data coming from the National Register, the examination results coming from the driving examination centres and the electronic exchange of data from foreign driving licences. Currently, the database is mainly used by the various municipalities for the issue of driving licences and the exchange of foreign driving licences. However, it is intended to make Mercury a real-time database for driving licences, allowing, for example, FPS Justice Department data on revocations and the immediate withdrawals and temporary driving bans for a few hours to be subject to real-time control by the FPS Home Office by the competent authorities, such as the police. We believe that this can be a very important step. For example, if a driver receives a temporary driving ban of a few hours after a determination of driving under the influence, it is not currently registered. Even if a driver was ordered to lapse, but did not bring his driver's license into the police court too late, the police cannot see it in real time. After the analysis phase between the different administrations involved, the test phase started in January 2017. On a previous question about this, you replied that your department would be ready in mid-April 2017 to allow the consultation of the data on the status of the driving licence for the municipal authorities, Justice and the police, i.e. the competent services. Mr Minister, can you tell us more about the Mercury test phase that started in January? Has the test phase been completed or how long is it running or does it have to go through? Can you confirm that your department is ready with the elaboration of Mercury so that the competent services can consult the status of the driving licence at any time? Can municipalities, Justice and the police already consult the driving licence status in real time today? What changes to the Road Traffic Act are still needed if necessary? What changes are needed within your competence to royal decisions, implementing decisions and the like? I am thinking, for example, of the formalities for the revocation provided for in Article 46.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u47	The link between Mercury and the data system of the FOD Justice and the police has been realized. In Mercury, a new overview screen is available, including the data of a lapse of the right to control and an immediate withdrawal. All municipalities in Belgium can consult this screen since July 2017. There hasn't been a real test phase. We have asked the municipalities from the start of this new screen to inform us about any problems or uncertainties so that we can follow up on the accuracy of the data. As with any new application, this requires some adjustments in the initial phase. To put it all together, this is further evaluated in a working group, together with the FPS Justice and the police, as long as necessary. For the FPS Mobility and Transport this project has been completed. The municipalities may send the data relating to a lapse of the right to send and consult an immediate withdrawal. What problems the police or FPS Justice encounter and what information they can consult better ask the Minister of the Interior or the Minister of Justice. The project was purely operational and does not require any approximation of legislation. The data, available in Mercury, and the use of this data is governed by the Law of 14 April 2011 laying down various provisions, Title 3, Chapter 1 and by the Royal Decree of 18 November 2011 on the Crossroads Bank of the driving licences. It already established the availability of these data. Moreover, the police and judicial authorities are already empowered to use this information.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u48	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. On the one hand, it is positive that the database is operational, that it is about to work well for the municipal authorities. On the other hand, I regret that we do not get a picture of the use of the database by the police and the judiciary. That is where the added value could lie. The police will then be able to consult the database in real time when they hold someone up, to check that the driving licence is in order. That could be a huge leap forward in the enforcement of checks on driving with a valid driving licence. I understand that I will have to contact your fellow ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u49	Président: Jef Van den Bergh.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u50	Minister, this is a question that has already been raised some time ago. It is dated 29 August. In an interview published on L'Echo's website, Finance Minister Johan Van Overtveldt explained that the government would examine the possibility of privatisation of SNCB in the context of budgetary discussions on state participation in companies. This announcement prompted the Prime Minister to clarify the situation by explaining that a privatization of SNCB was not the agenda. He said that a working group would look at public participation in the context of "dynamic management" in the coming months. This group will assess the value of the actions and how they can be carried out. Minister, what exactly or exactly was it at the time? Has your position changed? What is your position on the possible privatisation of the SNCB Group? Will the case of SNCB be addressed in the working group? When will his work begin or have they already started? When can we get an answer?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u51	Minister, I should like to comment on the statement by Minister of Finance Van Overtveldt on the further investigation into the privatisation of SNCB and other public participations. Even though he was immediately flagged back by the Prime Minister, I do not think it was a sensible idea, particularly expressed by a minister. Parliamentarians have more right to speak than a minister to leave such test balloons, especially in view of the consequences in the social climate. In addition, I would also like to ask Mr Cornu, who used to be, and Mrs Dutordoir, at the moment, to pierce the balloon, rather than keep it coming up. What is the government's official position? Have any effective steps been taken, somewhere within the government circles, to investigate privatisation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u52	Minister, several of your government colleagues have referred to the privatization of SNCB. The Minister of Finance, Johan Van Overtveldt, said that the privatization of all State assets, including SNCB, would be considered. Your colleague, Kris Peeters, said the discussion was open. Minister Alexander De Croo, a long-standing advocate of privatization in general, referred to a partial privatisation of SNCB. The Prime Minister, for his part, said that this was not the government's priority and that, in any case, SNCB would not be completely privatized. Nevertheless, he confirmed that in the coming months, a working group would examine the possibilities of selling public participation. Minister, do you confirm that the government is currently considering a possible partial or even total privatisation of the SNCB? Is the mentioned working group already active? If not, when will he begin his work. As a minister with SNCB's responsibilities, do you feel that its total or partial privatization is a valid avenue?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u53	Colleagues, following the various statements made in the press on August 25, 2017, the Prime Minister and I immediately denied this information. There is no question of privatisation of SNCB, even in part. The Government recalled that it assesses the many activities carried out through the subsidiaries of SNCB and Infrabel with regard to the central missions of the companies in accordance with the majority agreement and how, if necessary, they can be reduced, no more or less. I have said this and repeated it many times since then: there is no question of privatising SNCB or Infrabel.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u54	And part of it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u55	I said: not partly or totally. Such a project would be inconceivable and inconceivable in the case of Belgian rail. I challenge everyone. My priority is to modernize the company to make it an effective public actor at the service of its customers and the mobility of the country. This is how we prepare a sustainable and efficient SNCB. In my capacity as custody minister of the SNCB Group, I will be involved in the group that will consider within the federal government the possibility of reducing public debt and limiting public participation. As far as SNCB is concerned, I can confirm that the government will comply with the government agreement and in particular will examine all the shares of SNCB in its numerous subsidiaries and will only retain the shares linked to the core functions of the railway group. It is in this context, for example, that a few weeks ago CMI took over the activities of the former subsidiary Transurb.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u56	Thank you for these rather reassuring answers, Minister. It is hoped that in the government that follows, the same philosophy and obstinacy will be maintained in keeping SNCB and Infrabel in public companies. In any case, that is what we want.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u57	Mr Minister, for the record, I also believe that SNCB can and should work more efficiently. There is absolutely no discussion on this in committee. Everyone wants tax money to be used as efficiently as possible, but I think the slope of privatisation will cost the government just more money. It is not just an ideological discussion; of course everyone is free to have his ideology, although a minister has certain responsibilities and some statements would be better not to do so, because privatisation would not be a sensible decision even in the context of efficient use of public funds.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u58	Under item 18 there is a whole series of questions put together on the limitation of the opening hours of certain points of contact. Mrs Grovonius and Mrs Lalieux will not come, Mr Van Hees will come back and Mr Cheron has been notified. Are we still waiting for a few more moments? You have the right to ask both of your questions, Mrs. Poncelet. Normally, Mr. Van Hees is coming back. Mrs. Grovonius is not coming.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u59	Minister, I had two questions about closing the windows. We've already had an opportunity to talk about it. A question was tabled in early September and a new question was tabled on 21 September. At the beginning of September, SNCB announced that, starting on 2 October, yesterday, the opening hours of the counters at 33 stations across the country would be reduced during the weekend and/or the afternoon. The company justifies this decision by the fact that travellers tend to opt for automation machines and digital sales channels, available 24 hours a day and 7 days a week. Already in 2015-2016, 33 stations were affected by the closure of the windows. Although the vast majority of SNCB's products can be purchased via automatons, it is clear that reducing window opening hours will have a negative impact on the quality of service offered to the public, in any case during the time to adapt to these new means of purchase. In fact, the service is not the same, because the elderly, for example, do not manipulate the automatons in the same way as a young public that is lurking on the internet. The role of SNCB as a public service is, however, to provide a quality service to all rail users while preserving rural transport. Such a reduction is mainly likely to reduce the attractiveness of certain lines and lead to a decrease in passengers and therefore to a challenge by SNCB of the proposed transport offer on these lines. It is always a bit the same scenario that applies for already weakened lines: the number of passengers is decreasing and does not justify maintaining the supply. In the long run, the fear is that the line will close. So we could ask ourselves about that. The removal of less frequented outlets with a view to "optimising sales networks" is once again a preference for mass transport from large cities to large cities. Rural transport will be disadvantaged, as the supply will be reduced. This decision is another hard hit for mobility in rural or semi-rural areas, to which I am very attached. Minister, can you tell me the stations involved in these closures? Are these closures only during the weekend or also in the afternoon during the week? Is it a shutdown all day or all the WE or during certain hours? What is your position in the face of these successive closures? What happens to the concept of public service? That's my first question! I follow on from my second question, which provides some answers to the first question. I was arrested by people from the Libramont area who are worried about the fate of the Libramont train station counter. As of 2 October, the ticket office at this station will no longer be open on Saturdays from 8.15 a.m. to 3.40 p.m. and on Sundays from 11.15 a.m. to 6.40 p.m. Minister, this reduction in window hours is a real shock in the Libramont area. Many investments have just been made and, as a result, a reduction in the supply of services is sometimes misunderstood. Many commuters and travellers use this station every day, but also during the weekend of course. I am thinking in particular of the students who leave on Sunday night. The window will be closed at 6:40 p.m. on Sundays, while many students have not yet returned to their kot. It is a nonsense for many people in the region. Minister, what are the actual arguments that led to a reduction in opening hours during the weekend in Libramont? Could you review this decision or is it final?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u60	Mrs Poncelet, SNCB tells me that travellers are increasingly opting for sales machines and digital sales channels, such as its website and mobile phone apps, to buy their train ticket. The vast majority of SNCB products are available there. In addition, the sales automation fleet has been significantly expanded in recent years. Since this trend results in a continuous decrease in sales at the counters, SNCB has decided to adapt the opening hours of the counters at 33 stations from 2 October 2017, mainly in the afternoon and on weekends. In recent years, SNCB has repeatedly reported on the fact that opening hours and benefits at the window will be systematically adjusted in the light of changing workloads at the desk and the natural evolution of the workforce as a result of retirements. The adaptation of the opening hours of the windows, starting on 2 October, is neither less nor less than the consequence of this general principle. This will allow it to allocate resources where they are most useful to its clients. SNCB ensures that it no longer provides for full and definitive closures of windows until 2020. The details of the changes in hours at the counters are given in the annex. You will see, for example, that the station of Rochefort-Jemelle is concerned; so I have not been the subject of favours of the clientelist type and I assume it. It's also my vision of politics. Automates allow payment by credit card, debit card or credit card, and by currency, up to a maximum of 35 euros, which is enough for a one-way ticket at the maximum first-class rate. Tickets are not accepted for security reasons, among other things for automatons located at unkept stop points. SNCB states that in July 2017, the average availability of ATMs was 98.7%. In case of an issue error after payment, the customer can request the refund at the counter of his choice if he is in possession of the cash ticket indicating the error, and in any case he can contact the customer service via a contact form available at the station or on the SNCB website. When the customer is mistaken in his or her purchase, he or she may be reimbursed his or her ticket free of charge at a counter until the date of the trip. If the customer is mistaken when buying a trip on the same day, the refund is possible within 30 minutes of purchase at a counter. As part of the reduction in the time range of the windows, SNCB has developed a procedure to ensure access to the station halls and their equipment and therefore to maintain passenger reception. Mrs. Poncelet, you asked which counters were involved. I will give you the list, based on the closing of the windows all weekend, only on the afternoons of the week, only on the afternoons of the weekend or in the afternoon during the week and during the weekend at the stations etc.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u61	Mr. Minister, your collaborator had already sent me the list. Thank you for your answer. As you mentioned earlier, SNCB is being modernized. We know that automation tends to progress very quickly. However, many users do not want to adapt or do not succeed. Even if the automaton can be a solution if the window is closed, the elderly can stay half an hour in front of the device without understanding its logic. This is therefore a problem. You added that in the event of an error, the refund could be made at the counter within 30 minutes. However, if it is closed, the persons concerned may not be reimbursed. Perhaps the operation could then be carried out later. So we would have liked you to announce help for the elderly, because we know that young people adapt easily to change.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u62	That is why we want to develop methods of selling external tickets, for example via the Internet. With respect to the refund, when you are on the train, it is difficult to get a quick refund of a bad ticket to the customer service of another station. The train attendant may inform the passenger of the modus operandi for reimbursement. You see, it's not frozen.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u63	Minister, thank you for this additional information and for the flexibility that you have explained.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u64	Question No 20145 by Mrs Lalieux is postponed. Question No 20180 by Mr Gilkinet is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u65	Mr. President, Minister, the sale of drones is increasingly successful. Many buyers, however, consider acquiring a leisure object, or even a toy, and think, for the most part in good faith, that they can use it as they see fit. However, the Royal Decree of 10 April 2016 imposes restrictive conditions on the use of drones. Can you tell me whether clear information on the legal rules for the use of drones is given to sellers and buyers? Can the seller be held responsible for the consequences of an improper use of a drone by a buyer? If this is not the case, can you, in the review process of the order currently being conducted by your firm, reserve a chapter to the question of responsible information? As a political leader of a municipality, my question is guided by the concern for public safety but also by the concern for protection due to an emerging profession, that of telepilot, which suffers from the amalgam between amateur use and professional use of the drone.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u66	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at present there is no legal basis for forcing sellers to inform buyers about existing legislation, e.g. by applying a sticker or distributing a booklet at the time of sale. At European level, in the process of drawing up the next "Drones Regulation" which is expected to enter into force in 2020, manufacturers are required to include an information sheet in the box containing the main rules on the use of drones. Once this new legislation is in force, it will be up to the SPF Economy, also responsible for consumer protection, to verify that this measure is being implemented. However, the Mobility and Transportation FPS distributes information materials (posters, leaflets, etc.) user associations that request it. An awareness-raising campaign was organised in 2016 with the SPF Economy and the sector. Please also note that the information is freely available on the Mobility and Transport FPS website. It should be noted that many users buy their drones on the Internet, from countries that are sometimes very far away. In this case, it is and will remain very difficult to ensure that the manufacturer or seller has properly informed the buyer of the rules in force. Good overall communication on this issue is therefore essential in all cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u67	Minister, thank you. I have the answer to my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u68	At the end of this year, SNCB's new transport plan will enter into force. That plan provides for an increase in the number of trains by just over 5%. In an interview in Metro last September 6th, not so long ago, you also announce the opening of a number of stops around Liège and Limburg. In fact, the transport plan refers to three new stops in the province of Liège, in Seraing, Ougrée and Chaudfontaine. However, I do not find any new Limburg stops in the plan. Firstly, is it true that stops will be opened in Limburg? Secondly, if new stops are opened, what stops are we talking about and what is the timing? Thirdly, what is the estimated cost of this? I would like to ask other questions about the new transport plan. There are three new stops in Liège, as I mentioned earlier. Before the summer recess I asked you about the number of estimated travellers who will use the new stops. At that time you could not answer me because, as was your answer, SNCB did not consider it advisable to communicate that information. In future, the railway undertaking will consider the results of its passenger accommodations as internal data intended exclusively for operational purposes, of which it shall take note. So great was my surprise when I read in an article published on the RTBF website, www.rtbf.be, your announcement of the press conference in Chaudfontaine on Monday 11 September, not so long ago, that 3 115 passengers were expected to take the train daily in Chaudfontaine. First of all, is the information from the above article correct? Did you indeed announce that there are 3 115 boarding parties expected in Chaudfontaine? Secondly, if so, why can the figures be published? Are the figures suddenly no longer considered to be internal information by SNCB? Thirdly, are you convinced that the figure is realistic? If so, what is the figure based on? Finally, was a scientifically substantiated potential study, or an objective cost-benefit analysis, carried out before the reopening of the three stops? If so, can you share it with Parliament? If not, how are the investments in the three stops motivated?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u69	The opening of the stops Seraing, Ougrée and Chaudfontaine is fully in line with the coalition agreement, which includes the study of the development of a regional express network for the large urbanized agglomerations of Antwerp, Charleroi, Ghent and Liège. Whatever you say, the government, of which your party is a member, takes into account the size of the cities in the country. The priority was given to Antwerp and Ghent for the development of rail supply in the Flemish Region. I just came back from Antwerp, where I entered the citypass for Antwerp and Ghent together with my Flemish colleague Ben Weyts. This was done according to the priorities set by SNCB and the Flemish Region. This example shows in concrete terms that the government is continuing to work on the priorities as agreed in the government agreement for the Flemish Region. All the studies on supply and demand in the Liège agglomeration were carried out in the context of the studies on AnGeLiC. The government and SNCB did not leave it alone in that study, since the offer for certain cities, such as Antwerp and Liège, has already been extended or will be extended in December. The balance is positive and every parliamentary member of the majority should be satisfied. The construction of the stops in Seraing, Ougrée and Chaudfontaine is financed by the envelope set aside for rail investment under the additional billion for the priorities on the territory of the Walloon Region in accordance with the 60/40 key. As in the case of the Flemish Region, the representatives of the two other regions are contacted to identify the priority projects within the envelope released for each region under the additional billion. In the context of investments in Flanders, for example, I submitted a proposal to the Flemish Minister of Mobility's cabinet with the help of that billion euro, including the eleven Flemish priorities. Limburg is not forgotten because my proposal also includes substantial contributions for, firstly, electrification of line 15 between Zonhoven and Balen; secondly, the reopening of line 18 between Hasselt and Neerpelt; thirdly, the electrification of line 19 between Neerpelt and Hamont and, finally, for Hasselt station. It remains, of course, a question of balance, which can only be confirmed once all my proposals have received the agreement of the regional and federal governments. So I have to say that you pay more attention to the French-speaking press than to the information that could have been provided by the cabinet of my colleague in the Flemish Region.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u70	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. First of all, I'm still hungry for some of my questions. I referred to the interview you gave in Metro on 6 September 2017 and you gave the reopening of a number of stops. Unfortunately, I have not received an answer to that question today. Nor have I received an affirmative answer to the question of whether the study can be looked into or can be shared, unless I have misunderstood you or missed something. I also did not receive an answer to my question as to whether it was true that you did not wish to report the figure of 3 115 to Parliament, but did so at a press conference in Chaudfontaine itself. Secondly, I take note of the process resulting in the decision on the reopening of the stations. I will ask my fellow Members on the Flemish side and on the other side of the language border about the proposal with a number of Limburg priorities, which you seem to have delivered to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u71	It is only an investment of 2.4 million for 3 100 passengers for the three stations on that line in the region of Liège. I will check whether the ratio between the size of the investment in other regions is the same and the number of passengers. I'll look into that and we can discuss it at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u72	Then I am in happy expectation, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u73	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Grovonius' 20243 was postponed. What is the joint question No. No 20244 by Mrs Grovonius, 20371) by Mr Geerts, (Doc. President. - I call Mr Gilkinet. As far as Mrs Lalieux is concerned, 20877 are not here. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs De Coninck has converted 20258 into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Question No 20269 Mr Flahaux's 20270 were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u74	Mrs. Temmerman is not here at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u75	Mr President, Minister, the port of Ghent is very difficult to reach by public transport. Railroad 204 runs through the port, but there's no train crossing. So we are clearly talking about a missing link. Several voices have been working for a long time for the reactivation of line 204 for passenger transport to Zelzate. Flanders also gave up the project in 2013 as one of the priority projects. I have also mentioned this several times here. With the reopening of railway line 204, the port of Ghent would be accessible by public transport to a large number of employees, although this reopening requires important investments. The operating costs for a train, based on a half-hour train on working days and operating with diesel engines, were estimated at EUR 16 million in the 2009 study. The project would be discussed further in the investment cell. Mr Minister, are you planning, together with SNCB or Infrabel, a new need analysis, after the last one from 2009, on Railway 204? Why is that, or why not? What are your views on the opening of rail line 204 for passenger traffic? What is the vision of Infrabel? Is the reopening of line 204 in Infrabel's 2017-2020 business plan proposal? Why is that, or why not? What view does SNCB have on this? Mr Minister, I have, of course, made this question very clear because several versions have been published so far. Hence also the clear question regarding the different entities and especially about your vision regarding this project. Have new sheets been submitted to the investment cell on railway 204? If so, what exactly is the proposal? How much should be invested to re-activate line 204? Has the investment cell already discussed this?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u76	Minister, on 8 July, Havenbedrijf Gent launched a study on the improvement of railway infrastructure in the port of gand and the Zeeland Seaport. The cost of the study, EUR 1.3 million, is half financed by the European Commission. One of the main routes mentioned is the feasibility of passenger transport between Ghent and Zelzate. The existing line is currently only used for the carriage of goods. In such a case, it would be necessary to provide for judgments. This would be a crucial asset for the 60,000 workers who travel every day in the Ghent port area and have to suffer from frequent traffic jams. The line could replace 10,000 cars a day. The total cost was estimated at the end of 2016 at EUR 107 million. On November 28, 2016, Infrabel announced that the federal government's savings did not allow for investment in such a project. He even received the lowest priority. SNCB's spokesperson again confirmed this reluctance on 7 July. What numbers do Infrabel and SNCB use to establish this low priority? What is their assessment of the potential number of travellers? Is the amount of investment required for a catenary-free track – light rail – estimated? Will you ask Infrabel to take into account the results of the analysis by Havenbedrijf Gent and the European Commission?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u77	Mr President, Mr Yüksel, subject to what will eventually be agreed in the cooperation agreement with the Flemish Region on the use of the EUR 1 billion in addition to the funding already provided for in the multiannual investment plan, the state of operation of railway line 204 can be summarised as follows. Firstly, the first deployment of line 204 for passenger transport is a project that is part of the 11 Flemish rail priorities. Secondly, with regard to the work on railway line 204, according to the Flemish sheet submitted to the investment cell, there is, firstly, the increase in speed from 40 to 80 km/h, secondly, the installation of five stops and, thirdly, the execution of railway works without electrification. As there is no final decision yet on the use of the EUR 1 billion, it is still too premature for SNCB to plan for passenger trains to run on line 204. The most recent study on the introduction of a regional express network for the region of Ghent, carried out by SNCB, was based on the existing rail infrastructure in the analysis of the main transport flows towards Ghent. A service on line 204 has not yet been studied. However, SNCB's intention is to launch a study later this year on mobility flows to and from the port of Ghent. A possible supply of line 204 will be included in the study at that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u78	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You have not answered many of my questions. The introduction of railway 204 for passenger transport is an important asset for the port community and is necessary. There are dozens of companies active and tens of thousands of people working every day. This railway is not only important for Zelzate, but is also important in the light of the merger with Zeeland Seaports. The federal and Flemish governments must take seriously the need for this railway line. Both SNCB and Infrabel should pay due attention to this and give it the necessary priority. Minister, I would like to ask you a brief, specific question. You say that a study on the transport to and from the port will be carried out this year and that this study will be an important document. On the basis of the information available today, do you think that railroad 204 should be opened? I would like to ask you this clear, concrete and political question, in order to ascertain whether you are going along with that story.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u79	Everything is possible on a technical level. It is necessary to end the study, to know the possible success of this railway line. The study is also carried out at the request of the cell that plans the investments for the following years. You know that there are 11 Flemish railway priorities ahead. In this context, we carry out measurements together with the Flemish Region, so that priorities can be chosen and found. I hope to find a solution in the next few months, so that different regions of the Flemish Region can be allocated. The same applies to the Walloon Region. The study must therefore be carried out and then we can discuss its results. At a technical level, that project is possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u80	When will the study be completed?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u81	I don't know yet. The study will begin in the coming months. The results are needed to determine the investments for the following years.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u82	Minister, did I understand that SNCB was going to conduct a study on this line to make it a passenger line?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u83	We do this on all the lines. This is based on two elements. First, the objective of investments to choose those that have the greatest potential for travel. Secondly, we are in a real negotiation with the Regions and we are not going to impose things on them. We want to programme among the eleven priorities those with the highest potential, in a determined envelope that is not negligible. This study is necessary to determine the needs. We must take into account infrastructure, equipment and supply. We need to be able to check with employers and employees on this site what the real needs are. In this context, I would like to give you an example. Arcelor works night and day. When I tell you that there is a potential of workers of x thousands, that means that if we want to meet the offer of night workers, night trains would have to be made available to them. There is the potential and what we can actually capture. We must complete this analysis in order to determine the results, knowing that there is an internal rule in the SNCB for the new lines. The company is trying, within two or three years, to reach the coverage rate of the national average of 30 or 40% – I do not know the exact figure. When we create a new line, we must, after three or four years, reach the cruise regime otherwise, we will be asked to put trains into service for one person, which was the case previously. We are trying to maximise but within the framework of open and frank negotiations with the Flemish Region.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u84	That's what's strange about this case. If I understand correctly, a routine study is planned, as is the case for the eleven priorities of the Flemish Region. I agree with you when you say that it is necessary to see whether the existing potential will materialize and that a study is necessary. That is why I wonder whether SNCB, Infrabel or both had given the lowest priority for this project, without objective elements. The potential is very important because it affects 60,000 workers who move every day and the possibility of replacing 10,000 cars. A potential is not a reality, but if you don't study, you can't know. In this respect, a study was launched by het Vlaamse beleid and the European Commission. I hope that SNCB will seize this opportunity, which it has not done so far, i.e. study this potential and not decree from the outset that this is the lowest priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u85	It is not said that this is the lowest priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u86	This is what SNCB has said in the past!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u87	Not the highest. You just have to objectiveize the choices, that's all.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u88	That's what I'm asking you to do for this case!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u89	According to the French newspaper Le Monde, the French government's Directorate-General for Competition, Consumption and the Suppression of Fraud suspects the PSA group of having handled its diesel engines so that they emit less nitrogen oxide (NOx) during the registration tests than in actual driving. After Volkswagen, Renault and Fiat Chrysler, we could again face a case of massive fraud in the automotive sector, at the expense of public health. According to the press, at least 1.9 million PSA diesel vehicles would be affected by these fraudulent practices. In the light of this information, Minister, I would like to ask you three questions. Has your administration had any contact with the French administration regarding potential fraudulent practices of the PSA group? Have the vehicles concerned been put on sale on the Belgian market and, if so, how many? Finally, are you going to step up consultations at European level in order to stop this type of repeated fraud in the automotive sector since the Dieselgate we have dealt with in this Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, following the sixth reform of the State, the approval of vehicles has been regionalised. The vehicle recall procedure is part of the competence of the approval authority. My administration has therefore had no contact with the French administration regarding potential fraudulent practices of the PSA group. But my administration is actively involved in the RDE (real driving emissions) dossier with the European Commission, which will enable, as soon as it comes into force, the emissions of nitrogen dioxide from a vehicle to be measured by means of tests under normal conditions, i.e. on the public road, respecting a route with minimum slopes, defined speeds, and at various temperatures, and more within a laboratory. As a result, the test results will be much closer to reality. So, in short, the matter is regionalised; as a federal minister, I represent the Belgian State in the internal decision-making process in Belgium. At European level, I am responsible for the decisions taken by the Regions. To date, I have not made any contacts since it is not within my competence and I am not aware of any particular contacts between the Regions and France in this regard. On the other hand, at European Councils, this issue was discussed in particular in the field of the environment.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u91	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. In any case, what is encouraging is that in your response, you are reacting substantially to a recommendation from the Dieselgate Commission, which was to ensure that laboratory results are as close as possible to reality. I see that this is a matter for your attention and will be brought to the attention of the European discussions. I therefore invite you to ensure that there is follow-up at this level. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u92	Questions Nos. 20306 and 20333 by Mr. Gilkinet are transformed into written questions. Question No 20308 by Mr Calomne is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u93	Minister, on January 11, I asked you whether the recruitment of SNCB personnel was in time for a new transportation plan and for departures. You then told me that the SNCB's will was to intensify its recruitment campaigns by several methods, such as television messages, cinema, social forums, job exchanges. You also guaranteed to follow these campaigns very carefully. In the following months, we learned that SNCB's job exchanges had poor results. Are SNCB's recruitments in time relative to the expected operational requirements up to 2019, taking into account the duration of training for this staff? What are the current results of this intensive recruitment campaign? How many FTEs were recruited for driver, attendant and technical positions? Does SNCB intend to require railway operators to make additional efforts to address the shortage of staff, such as preventing them from taking vacation days or other recoveries? If so, are you planning consultations with the unions?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u94	Mr Van Hees, SNCB is constantly assessing its operational needs taking into account the training needed for new recruits in order to ensure continuity of service. Like many industrial enterprises, it faces difficulties in securing the necessary recruitment in certain categories of trades which are in short supply, such as technicians, civil and industrial engineers, drivers and train attendants, particularly in Flanders, where the labour market is confronted with a situation of full employment in certain regions. It should also be noted that the volume of hires of the railway group, with 2,200 jobs in 2017, is significantly higher than that of all other companies, making the challenge even greater. In 2017, SNCB has already hired 239 train and manoeuvring drivers, 198 train attendants and 344 technical personnel. In order to carry out the necessary recruitment of rolling staff, intensive collaboration was carried out with HR Rail through various campaigns and initiatives such as Job Days, Job Trains, information sessions, school visits, participation in numerous job exchanges, and even at job outlets following closures. All these actions have produced positive results and led to an increase in our recruitment tests. You're also asking me about recuperation days. The SNCB reports the following to me. To date, there has been a steady decrease in backlogs in days of leave and recuperation to be taken by rolling personnel. In view of this decrease, the railways confirm to me that no measures have been taken to reduce the necessary rest periods for staff performing safety duties. I am of course responding to the question on SNCB, not in Infrabel. I read in the press this morning or yesterday that almost 50% of Infrabel's technical execution staff would be retired by 2020. I do not always give absolute confidence in press articles, but this figure is still challenging. I guess he's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u95	Minister, as I understand your answer, the objective was therefore to hire 2,200 employees in 2017. According to the figures you gave me for the categories I asked for, we are 800 to 900 hires.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u96	To date, 1,700 people have been recruited. Five hundred recruitments are also under way. The target of 2,200 is expected to be achieved. You asked me about the technical staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u97	I thought these were the main categories.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u98	The target of 2,200 recruitments is expected to be achieved. Indeed, 1,700 are confirmed and 500 are in progress. The figure is global for Infrabel, SNCB and HR Rail. This is still a relatively large figure. If my memory is good, he's the second largest Belgian recruiter, if not the first.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u99	So you are telling me that this target of 2,200 jobs will be achieved.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u100	That's the information I get from both companies. These are occupations for which the call must sometimes be repeated – for example, drivers. In areas where there is great competition for technical trades, procedures may have to be restarted because there have not been enough candidates for the first call.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u101	I take note of the figures that you consider to be positive in relation to this recruitment. It seemed less exciting to me than your appreciation. In any case, I take note of the fact that additional efforts will not be required of SNCB workers, hoping to reduce those they already have to bear.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u102	Question No 20313 by Mrs Jadin is transformed into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Raskin's 20321 will also be converted into a written question. Question No 20387 by Mr Daerden is also transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u103	Mr President, Minister, Blue-bike's ambitions are great. The company wants to open 15 new rental stations each year and triple its customer base by 2020. However, shareholders are reluctant to grant the capital increase needed to meet these ambitions. This summer it was also announced that Blue-bike would have made a loss of 11 000 euros in 2016. However, the system fits perfectly with your intermodality ambitions. A reduction in the growth scenario of Blue-bike would be a loss of face in that light. On an oral question by Mr Van den Bergh, you replied that there would be news after the summer holidays. I therefore have the following questions. Firstly, do you now have an insight into the views of the shareholders on investment? Secondly, what do these mean for the future of Blue-bike? Can the growth scenario be maintained? Thirdly, is other partners, for example from Flanders, being looked at?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u104	Mr President, Minister, Mr Van Hecke has already outlined the situation. I also looked across the border to the Netherlands. For example, in the Netherlands three million journeys are done with an OV-fiets, which leads to 30% more train journeys. Why was I looking at the Netherlands? I have been to Rotterdam and Amsterdam myself and I noticed that this has a potential for growth. If I compare it to our country, there is a sixfold increase compared to 2013, but there is actually much more potential in that. I can see that even in my municipality of Heist-op-den-Berg. I note the reluctance of SNCB to invest further, also in the context of the debates we have had in the transport region. A business plan has been drawn up to go to 115 locations, which should increase the number of users from 16 000 to 55 000, but this plan appears to have been revised. It is unclear to me what is the view of SNCB on the development of Blue-mobility and Blue-bikes. I assume the questions about the capital increase have already been asked. To what extent does SNCB participate in achieving an increase in capital or not? Has SNCB actually been simulating what an increase of 16 000 to 55 000 users would mean for the additional train journeys and the potential? Why does SNCB not advertise the Blue Bikes more and why does it not offer integrated tickets? What measures does SNCB plan to support in the short term the use of Blue bikes but also of private bicycles? I did not say anything about depreciation in the oral explanation of my written question. Apparently, there has been an effective depreciation of EUR 158 000 due to software reasons. Is this theorem correct?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u105	Minister, Mr Van Hecke himself referred to my question just before the summer. I believe that Blue-bike has enormous potential, including for extending the range of the train. The train user gets a much larger range of action thanks to making such Blue bikes available. I'm a big believer. I'm a pretty intense user of those Blue-bikes myself. Apart from my own interest in this, I believe that it would also be good for all other potential train passengers. I shall confine myself to the specific questions. Mr Minister, can you explain more about the state of play with regard to the new Blue Mobility business plan? In the meantime, was a position taken by the various shareholders? We are looking at the position of B-Parking and SNCB, as my fellow Members have already mentioned. After all, they play a key role in this. What's your vision? After all, you often bring the answers you receive from the SNCB Group, but as a minister you may have a clear view on this. What is your view on the role of SNCB and B-Parking in Blue-bike? Why? In what way do you want to see it executed? Finally, what are the further steps in relation to the business plan? What timing will be used for this? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u106	Ladies and gentlemen, since 2015, Blue-bike's billing software has had a problem. Outgoing invoices were not linked to the accounting package. As a result, an individual payment succession was not possible. Since 1 January 2017, this link has been established and this problem has been calculated for the first time by the new accounting office. At the close of the financial year 2016, a depreciation of EUR 158 000 was recorded for all previous years together. From 2017 onwards, rappels will be sent for unpaid invoices. A collection agency is following this file. The shareholders have approved a number of slopes and developed a new business model for the investments. In the meantime, SNCB has lent EUR 300 000 to Blue-Mobility to ensure continuity of activity. The growth scenario was adjusted to 12 locations per year. If the number of Blue-bike users could increase to 55 000, this would indeed encourage the use of the train. Opportunities for promotion and integrated tickets are being examined. Blue-bike expects that by the end of this year its customers will be able to use their Mobib card to extract a Blue-bike. In addition, SNCB is working on a cycling strategy with a number of new measures. For example, extensions of existing and the construction of new bicycle parkings are planned. My cabinet is following this file in cooperation with the other shareholders. The final decision has not yet been made.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u107	Thank you, Minister. If I understand your answer correctly, the ambition has changed. Originally, the ambition was to reach 15 new rental stations per year, but now you say that the growth scenario was adjusted to 12 per year. That is a reduction, and that is a pity. It was just stressed that we are all convinced that there are opportunities for growth and that there is much potential. Traffic problems are increasing, people are becoming more and more aware that they need to do their movements differently, traffic jams are getting bigger. There is real potential to further invest in that. If the figures presented by Mr Geerts from the Netherlands are correct, this could have a positive effect on the use of the train. In this sense, I regret the adjustment of ambitions. I hope, Minister, that you will be able to give the clear signal yourself that it is very important to continue to invest in it in the context of the overall mobility issue and that SNCB, as a partner, must make the necessary efforts.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u108	Thank you for your answer, Minister, but I feel about the same as Mr Van Hecke. As local road managers, we find that there are more and more cars on all streets around the stations. It is good that people take the train more and more, but a large parking lot is no longer enough. There are limits on the number of places in the municipalities. Hence we ask for a modal shift to make bikes, among other things. The municipal authorities are now funding this themselves, but we do want to see a walk through SNCB. If the target is limited to 12, we will have a figure of 75 by 2020. The original ambition level was 115. I really hope that, within the framework of a broader mobility policy, B-Parking will pay due attention to the Blue Bikes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u109	I too agree with that. I believe that it is really very important to have ambition in terms of the combination of train and bike. The potential for this is there, this is clear. Many municipalities want to invest in Blue bike points themselves. SNCB must not miss that opportunity either. I look forward to discussing this shortly, when the CEO will come to our committee. The translation into the management agreement of the resolution adopted here in Parliament on the combination of public transport and cycling can also be an important lever for this. To be continued, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u110	Minister, on September 13, SNCB indicated that the new starting procedure, DICE, did not meet its expectations. The current procedure was the subject of many complaints, particularly from drivers and attendants. Under this procedure, one of the doors remains open until the departure of the train, but passengers cannot use it. In 2009, there was an accident in which an escort, André Cornette, lost both legs. The staff was and is still furious. Management then promised a new procedure. The SNCB proposal, the DICE procedure, developed in the spirit of one man car, is very complex. SNCB reportedly used a consulting office and organized numerous working groups and pilot projects. However, SNCB considers that this procedure is insufficient in terms of availability, reliability and punctuality and therefore decides to abandon this project. Minister, why was the opinion of the staff that this new procedure was not appropriate not taken into account at the outset? How much has SNCB paid to the consulting office for the development of this departure procedure? What other costs were incurred by this abandoned project? What are the consequences for the development of the one man car system and for the timing of its implementation? Do you have an estimate of the deadline for the introduction of a new procedure that is simple and safe?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u111	Mr Minister, the departure procedure AVG, Pointers Operations Done, trains have been subject to discussion for some time now. After the whistle signal has been given by the train attendant, no one is allowed to leave. That sometimes leads to irritations. The accident in Dinant in 2009 brought that topic to the attention. The procedure would be reformed as a result. From the signal house the train supervisor would receive information so that he could give the driver the signal to leave. That everything would be linked to the Itris. However, problems with the 3G and 4G networks caused problems in transmitting the information. I then asked a number of follow-up questions. A new departure procedure was set out in the reply. The cost of this was 4.7 million euros. There would also be evaluations by various bodies, ranging from Belgorail over DVIS to the FPS Mobility and Transport. The DICE departure procedure is simply stopped after the pilot project in Dendermonde. I therefore have a number of specific questions. What new elements have led to the discontinuation of DICE? Did DVIS give a negative opinion? I know that this is the responsibility of your colleague Ducarme. What were the findings of Belgorail, the FOD and the SNCB themselves? That 4.7 million euros was an estimate. What costs have already been incurred effectively? How long have they been working on DICE? What alternatives are being proposed to replace DICE? What is the roll-out period? How much is the cost? Can you give me an overview of the number of incidents and accidents linked to the current departure procedure GDPR?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u112	Mr President, the problem has already been outlined by the previous speakers. SNCB has invested a great deal of energy, money and resources in the development of the new system, which we learned a few weeks ago that it would eventually have ended. It is also unclear how to proceed. That is why I have a number of very specific questions. Firstly, how many people have been specifically involved in the project at SNCB? How long have they been working on it? Secondly, how much did the project as a whole, including staff costs and infrastructure costs? I hear a figure of EUR 4.7 million in this area, which is likely to have to be adjusted. This is, of course, immense, especially when it is then decided not to apply the system. However, I understand from the field that signals were soon given that the new system might not have been ideal either. Thirdly, how were the findings of the driving staff and train escorts taken into account? Fourthly, have there been times during the course of the journey when the whole project has been considered to stop? Why didn't that happen at the time? Fifth, what are we going to do now? Is there any prospect of alternatives? If so, what are the alternatives? In what areas do they differ from the current procedure and DICE? At what time is it expected to be able to test them? At what time is it expected to be able to implement them? What will be the additional cost for the new system? Is a number of minor interventions envisaged in the current departure procedure pending? Finally, what part of the work already done and of the costs already incurred might be useful in the future if a new project around the departure procedure were to be launched?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u113	I would like to endorse the explanations given by my fellow Members and their questions. Over the past few years, the departure procedure has been discussed here on several occasions and several questions have been asked about it. Then, of course, it was a remarkable message that the whole review was suddenly cancelled, Minister. I think that a little clarity on the state of affairs is appropriate. Can you explain why the new procedure does not meet the expectations? How is it that after a long development it is decided to stop the project? What major shortcomings are we talking about? How much did the project cost? It is important to get a view of the total cost. What alternatives are being worked on? What are the options to ensure safe departure? That's the most important thing in the end. Who's getting involved? What's the timing? I think it would be very useful to involve train drivers and train attendants, who have to deal with this procedure on a daily basis. I understand that this involvement could certainly be increased. Is SNCB considering launching a pilot project with an app like that in the Netherlands? With this, the train guide can give the signal to departure via his smartwatch. Are such ideas included in the revision of the exit procedure? Is the current exit procedure still in line with the relevant European rules? There are certain European technical standards for this. I thought that the exit procedure should be brought into line with those standards in the course of this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u114	SNCB informs me that on the basis of the results of the pilot project in Dendermonde and based on an external audit of the IT architecture, it must conclude that DICE will not be able to meet the high expectations of availability, reliability and impact on punctuality. The pilot project's schedule did respond to the different parties' questions, but the tests were not in line with the expected results. Therefore, the current DICE project has been completely discontinued. The news was transmitted by the Management Committee on the same day via the intranet. It was also communicated orally through the prevention committees at work. The task of the Management Committee to seek a new departure procedure dates back to 2009. SNCB denies that DVIS has issued a negative opinion. The full cost is about 11 million euros. A dozen SNCB employees have been working on the project for the last two years. Some of the costs are not specifically linked to DICE but were necessary in the context of the renewal of certain safety installations. Some of the investments are likely to be re-used in the new project. Given that the concept of one man car is still in the study phase, there is little or no influence of stopping DICE on the possible roll-out of the system one man car. In 2015, SNCB counted 84 incidents in carrying out the current departure procedure and 61 in 2016. SNCB is working on an alternative that ensures maximum safety for its passengers and train escorts and is adapted to all operating systems that can be used in the future. The proposed alternatives will be simpler. According to SNCB, it is too early to assess the additional costs for a new system. In any case, the specifications provide for the abolition of the grey zone, the period during which a door of the train remains open, while the train cannot leave immediately. A choice must be made between solutions to communicate at the same time the information that the operations have been carried out on the platform and that the signal is open to the train. Those solutions are either analog or digital. The new solution will therefore be less complex and will be developed again in close cooperation with the personnel on the ground. The duration of the development depends on the chosen configuration. According to SNCB, it is intended to be able to test the new departure procedure in the course of 2019 and to employ it by the end of 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u115	Minister, I can assure you that the staff is not happy, many of the attendants have spoken about it. According to them, they were not heard when they said that this new system is not working. They also referred to the cavalier way in which they were suddenly told that the project was abandoned. They learned it, I think, via SNCB's intranet. At the moment, they say that there is still no solution. We hope there will be one in 2019! We still have the impression that this is a famous waste in terms of the cost of 11 million euros that you mentioned. Unfortunately, there's a part that's going to be used by one man because, if I understood correctly, it's 11 million thrown out the windows. I believe that SNCB is not a financially flourishing company that has the means to waste such a sum. So it's a pretty catastrophic adventure! Some escorts tell me that abroad, there are simple systems that work and they wonder why we didn't apply what was happening in other countries. The answer comes rather from one man because, that's what I actually suggested in the question. We focused on the one man scheme because, unfortunately, this bad idea contaminated the solution for the starting procedure. In the end, it is a famous waste and a fairly high financial cost!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u116	Thank you for your answer, Minister. In fact, this dossier has been under consideration for eight years, and it is now being completely discontinued. It was also said on the ground that the concerns were not sufficiently taken into account, in particular as a result of the spending of 11 million. We often discuss the efficient running of a company here. When I hear today that 11 million euros were spent, with limited recovery of the resources deployed, in order to achieve this, I am a little surprised at your engineering mentality. I apologise to all engineers, including yourself, who often, despite good examples abroad, want to look for other solutions. At the time, I also informed your predecessor that a mechanical system in the Netherlands belonged to the countdown clock. This system was quite simple and still exists there today. In my opinion, looking at foreign systems, and then checking whether they can be implemented, is more efficient than setting up a whole cinema itself, on which public funds are spent, and which one has to admit afterwards that it does not work. I had hoped, in 2017, and after all the questions we asked here, that you would consider not to commit a number of bêtises anymore. I'm afraid this hasn't worked out.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u117	Mr President, what we are hearing is a pity. The cost is $11 million, wasted money. All those who want to shoot SNCB from a certain political point of view will of course use it to show that it is inefficient, that it is better to privatise and so on. Such experiences and that wasted money are choirs on the mill of those who have different intentions with SNCB, less good intentions than we who want to work for a strong and customer-friendly SNCB. I therefore find it incomprehensible that it has been found so late that the system does not actually work. I hear that they started in 2009 and it is now eight years later. They hope to be able to test and implement the new system by 2019. That means ten years of research to look for a different and better system for the departure procedure. You can't explain that anymore, can you? I really don't understand how this happened. I have also heard from staff members that they had already given signals that there were problems a long time ago. Apparently, they haven't listened to that for a long time. That is why I think it is particularly important to involve people in the field very closely in the development of a new system. They have the experience. One can also be inspired by abroad. These systems may not always be applicable or transferable, but systems that work well elsewhere certainly deserve attention. With the knowledge of our people on the ground, we must be able to create a system that works well and that can achieve the safety objectives set. I hope that this is a good lesson not to go down that road anymore and to do it completely differently. Such a waste of money is totally unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u118	Minister, I do not have much more to add.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u119	Minister, I do not know how much time we have left. Mr Vanvelthoven has been informed. It's a combined question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u120	Mr President, Minister, according to an article of 7sur7.be published on July 28, you sent a letter in early July to the leaders of SNCB and Infrabel asking them to draw up a punctual action plan, which was to be discussed at a meeting in the fall of September. This meeting must have taken place. It is true that SNCB and Infrabel, the railway infrastructure manager, need to develop a punctual action plan to improve service to passengers on the train. Although overall, the punctuality of trains improved between January and April 2017, it deteriorated in the course of May, mainly due to heat and high temperature variations. Therefore, Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions. Could you clarify to me the state of play and the timing of the implementation of the punctuality action plan? How will the monitoring and evaluation of punctuality on certain problematic lines such as those linking Brussels to Luxembourg and Brussels to Quévy be ensured? What actions are envisaged to reduce the delays encountered, mainly on problematic lines?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u121	Dear colleague, on 1 January 2017, under my leadership, line managers were appointed for weak lines. They pay attention to all trains, and more specifically to the morning rush hour to Brussels and to the vesperal rush hour to the province. They also actively monitor and analyse the consequences of incidents and develop solutions. They report regularly to my office. Following the letter sent to SNCB in July 2017, in which I actually asked them to draw up an action plan punctuality, on 1 September I met with SNCB and Infrabel's punctuality officers so that the two companies could present their joint action plan to me. SNCB and Infrabel work together on more than 120 actions, divided into seven main areas: real-time traffic management, infrastructure, rolling stock, organisation and governance, discipline and vigilance, operational processes and the transport plan. The progress of these actions is discussed at regular meetings. Monthly "Punctuality Agreement Platform" meetings are held between the two parties, Infrabel and SNCB. As regards the monitoring and evaluation of the punctuality of certain lines, almost two thirds of the actions have been implemented. On the SNCB side, there is a helpdesk for train drivers, which helps them online in the event of technical concerns; the establishment of local consultation platforms "first departure" – almost 20% of first departure trains left late –, a better analysis of incidents. On the Infrabel side, the measures concern the renewal of the marking of line 94, which is a problem; the renewal of the catenary in the Brussels area; the introduction of traffic conflict detection; proper management, as well as a new approach to the adhesion problem (sheets); the detection of catenary anomalies and the fight against cable theft. Other actions are also on the agenda, such as the development of emergency scenarios that resume a full train service in case of unavailability of large stations (bomb or suspicious parcel alerts have been multiplied by ten in two, three years). In addition, there is the increasing impact of trespassing, which requires specific additional measures. I invite you to read the figures for the punctuality of lines 161 and 96, which I present to you in the annex. As regards the causes of delays between Luxembourg and Brussels, traffic is often disrupted due to the work carried out by Infrabel at different locations simultaneously. The various construction sites result in operating limitations – single-track services and temporary slowdown notices. A balance is sought by both companies between a sufficient rail supply and a necessary capacity on the line, knowing that the slightest incident causes cascading delays. Line 96 was strongly disrupted in May by extreme weather conditions – temperatures above 30° – as well as by an increase in the phenomenon of trespassing, malicious acts and cable thefts. In addition, work is under way at various locations – Hal-Braine-le Comte section, Jurbise station, Ghlin-Cuesmes-Genly-Quévy section – combined with the Mons station construction site. Among the measures taken, I will mention the revision of the timetables for certain P trains and the modification of the timetables for several freight trains so as not to disrupt peak time. The other part of my answer was for Mr Vanvelthoven and did not concern you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u122	Minister, thank you for your full answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u123	You can see from the picture I gave you this year that there were decreases until August. We are facing the imponderables.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u124	My question No. 20663 was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u125	Mr Minister, on Thursday 21 September a young 23-year-old railroad worker died in Ostend. He was only working for three days at the company Taveirne, which works in subcontracting for Infrabel. It quickly criticized the fact that subcontracting would take it less closely with the security conditions than the staff of Infrabel. The collision would have occurred at 7.15 a.m., while the safety devices, the necessary sentries of Infrabel, were not provided until 8.00 a.m. The question is how can this work be carried out 45 minutes earlier, without security? Infrabel refuted the criticism, but the question remains how it is possible to work at 7.15 a.m. if the security measures are not available until 8.00 a.m. What are the exact circumstances? Is there going to be an investigation by the investigating body? Are incidents and sub-contracting accidents recorded by Infrabel? What are the accident figures in 2015, 2016 and 2017? Is there a division between subcontracting and infrabel? This may be shown in a written table. Are all incidents actually reported? In what way is this controlled? Is security training the same for Infrabel staff and subcontracting? Have there been any prior reports for the station of Ostend? If so, what actions have been taken? Were collective protective equipment used, mentioned in the Royal Decree of 30 August 2013, such as yard marking, balustrades and so on? How does communication go among the staff of the Belgian railways and subcontractors? Were any prescribed communication procedures applied and respected? So far my many specific questions, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u126	Mr President, Minister, on September 21, a 23-year-old worker was killed by a train near Ostend station. The young man had only been working for three days for a subcontractor of Infrabel, Taveirne NV. At the time of the accident, 7:15 a.m., work was prohibited because the factioners, the watchmen who warned of the arrival of a train, were not yet present, and their arrival was scheduled at 8:00 a.m. According to one trade unionist, this accident could not have happened with workers of Infrabel, seriously trained in safety. According to him, the number of subcontractors, which is growing as a result of budget cuts, is much less sensitive to the issue of security. In another accident a few weeks ago, a worker from a subcontractor had been seriously injured. Fortunately, he's out of danger today. Minister, why was the subcontractor on the tracks when no safety was foreseen? Was there a request from the boss to start work, even in the absence of the factioners, which would be contrary to all the basic safety rules for work on the tracks? What safety training does Infrabel require for subcontracting workers? Are there different levels of requirement compared to Infrabel workers? Had the victim completed this training? Finally, how many workers from Infrabel's subcontracting companies were active on the tracks in September?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u127	Without prejudice to the ongoing investigation by the competent investigating authorities, I can inform you that the contractor nv Taveirne from Torhout carried out rail works on behalf of Infrabel near the station of Ostend. It was a day's performance from 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. On 21 September, the victim, accompanied by a colleague, was on the tracks before the beginning of the works. An incoming train from Ostend station has not been able to avoid the victim despite carrying out an emergency braking. The victim died on the scene. The Investigation Body for Accidents and Incidents on the Track has opened an investigation. The number of reported incidents and accidents occurring in the domain of Infrabel is kept up to date. For Infrabel: 10 accidents in 2015, 1 accident in 2016 and 4 accidents in 2017. For other contractors: 3 accidents in 2015, 5 accidents in 2016 and 4 accidents in 2017. The notification of an accident shall take place in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Welfare at Work, in particular Article 94ter, § 2. The procedure for this purpose is also included in Infrabel's specifications. Monitoring of compliance is carried out on the basis of collaboration between the line of command and the internal preventive services. Accidents and incidents also give rise to a discussion during the various concertations organised by Infrabel. To this end, there is the safety platform in which, in addition to the main railway contractors, the Union of Railway Works Undertakings and TUC RAIL participate. Infrabel makes safety information available to its contractors through the specifications and through its website. This information is the same as for Infrabel workers. The organisation of training and the verification of the knowledge of the workers concerned of the contractor constitute a legal obligation in the head of the contractor in his capacity as employer of all workers present on the sites. However, the safety functions set out in the Rail Code are reserved exclusively for Infrabel workers trained for this purpose. There have been previous reports, but they were reports without serious and immediate danger. There were no reports of presences on the track without the necessary security. No collective means of protection were used. Each entry from a train to a yard zone is normally made impossible by means of the railway security system. What exactly has gone wrong will have to explain the investigation. The communication procedure between the staff of Infrabel and its contractors is also part of the specifications and can be consulted on the same site for the safety information. The compliance or non-compliance with the prescribed communication procedure in this accident is also part of the ongoing investigations carried out by the competent investigation bodies.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u128	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer. I will not replicate the specific case, because that is the subject of investigation. Figures do not allow interpretation at the moment either because a comparison has to be made with the number of yards. It is essential, however, that the safety rules are applied correctly and in the same way by everyone so that we do not have to ask such oral questions anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u129	Minister, I take note of the fact that the investigation is still under way and that questions remain about the very circumstances of the accident, in particular why the worker was present before 8:00 a.m. For the rest, on the question of training, I did not understand your answer. You say that there is a legal obligation for the subcontracting company to provide training. Given the way you formulated this, this is a fairly formal obligation and no verification would take place.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u130	It's not formal. The specifications specify that workers working on the tracks for SNCB must be trained in the procedures and processes clearly defined in the contract documents of SNCB and Infrabel. It's an integral part... It's exactly like on highways, an area that I know much better than railways: people need to be monitored by the internal prevention service. A preventive officer must indicate before the start of each site what provisions must be applied: personal protection, protection of the site and protection of the team. Personal protection includes safety shoes, helmets, clothing, etc. The protection of the site is what must be put in order to withstand a bridge where we work. And the overall protection is the processes, for example at Infrabel: when can we go on the tracks or not? I'm not going to interfere with the investigation, but the first question that comes to me is how is it that someone was at 7:20 a.m. on the tracks when the construction site could only start at 8:00 a.m., when Infrabel's people were there to warn of track availability or not? I don't know the file, I'm not going to go into the details. But an entrepreneur has the same obligations vis-à-vis his worker as the worker of Infrabel. A process is defined in the specifications.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u131	I understand that the obligation is the same. My question is whether there is a control of this training, whether Infrabel verifies whether they are really trained or not. That raises the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u132	This is an obligation of the employer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u133	Okay, but it's a little easy on the part of Infrabel: "That's your obligation, that's it! You didn't do it? Too bad for your worker who has suffered the dramatic consequences!" For years, the trade union world, the progressive world has denounced not only the budget cuts but also the rampant privatization and the massive call to subcontracting, the break in working conditions. And for years, we have been told: "No! Security is assured." Unfortunately, the English example also shows that there is a link between subcontracting, privatization and the number of train accidents, accidents at work. I don't think we're laughing at working conditions or safety conditions. Human lives depend on it. To ensure maximum safety, there are no 36 solutions. SNCB and Infrabel should avoid outsourcing as much as possible, and when they do, they should at least check – I am not sure if this is done – whether the staff is well trained.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u134	I don't have the answer to your question. You can ask me about that. I have no problem with that. You might ask me what internal mechanism there is to monitor contractors' compliance with the regulations. If the guy is present before the hour and he starts, I don't know; I don't know the details. I can't say anything. But if someone's on the job before the hour, there's a problem. Who should stop him from going to the yard when it's not time? But you can ask a global question about access, security compliance controls by contractors who work for Infrabel. I will point out to you that the number of Infrabel victims is higher.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u135	For how many hours? We can't compare if we don't know the data.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic737x.u136	I don't know.
