ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic783x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by saying that the minister is giving us the honour of his presence on an ad hoc basis. Joined Questions No 21511 by Mr Flahaux, No 21757 by Mr Maingain and No 22486 by Mr Crusnière are postponed. If colleagues do not mind, I propose to ask my question No 21521 from my seat as President. [[Sentiment]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic783x.u2	Minister, at the end of the recent Austrian elections – I would remind you that my question dates from 18 October – Sebastian Kurz is in a position to become the youngest chancellor in Austria's history. His conservative Christian party, the ÖVP, was credited with 31% of the vote and did not hesitate to take firm measures in terms of migration policy, to the detriment of the instruments put in place by the European Union. My question was, therefore, whether discussions have taken place on a possible revision of migration policy at the level of the various European summits as a result of this vote and whether, in terms of migration policy, we are renegotiating at European level with certain countries, including Turkey.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic783x.u3	The Lisbon Treaty states that the European Union must constitute an area of freedom, security and justice in which fundamental rights are fully respected. The June 2014 European Council defined the strategic guidelines on migration and stated that this policy should be evaluated. The evaluation is under way. The Estonian Presidency, which is ending, is carrying out this mid-term evaluation in three stages. At the Justice and Home Affairs Council on 12 October, an exchange of views was held between the Ministers of the Interior and Justice. On 8 November, an informal seminar was organized, to which a wide range of actors were invited. These two events form the basis for a summary which the Estonian Presidency will send by letter to the President of the European Council, before the European Council on 14 and 15 December, tomorrow and the day after. It should also be noted that the topic of migration is included in the leadership programme adopted by the Council on 20 October. The objective of this concrete work programme is to guide the action of the European Union over the next two years. A "migration" discussion, the way forward on the internal and external dimensions, is once again planned for the December European Council, which will take place in the next two days. Belgium is also actively involved in efforts to achieve a fundamental overhaul of the common European asylum system on the basis of the Commission's proposals for a regulation. The reforms envisaged concern greater harmonisation of all aspects of the asylum acquis, such as conditions for reception, qualification and procedure. At the moment, the revision of the Dublin Regulation remains the most delicate part, with the question of solidarity imposed on the Member States in exceptional circumstances. Belgium supports the ambition to reach political agreement on all these instruments during the first half of 2018 under the Bulgarian Presidency. In fact, we have made considerable progress in the external migration policy: in contacts with the countries of origin, the transit countries, we will return to that earlier, but also in the control of the Union's external borders. On the other hand, the internal aspect of this migration policy, i.e. the asylum policy and the review of asylum policy, remains a particularly complex issue, which will probably not be the subject of conclusions at the Council in the next two days, but will be the subject of a debate. The migration policy between the European Union and Turkey is governed by the EU-Turkey Declaration concluded on 18 March 2016. The implementation of this declaration has had a positive effect on migratory flows and has therefore reduced irregular migration to the European Union from Turkey. The Commission shall regularly assess the implementation of this Agreement. The last report is dated September 6, 2017. As the implementation of this agreement is still under way, there is currently no question of renegotiating the EU-Turkey declaration. Yesterday we had a meeting between the foreign ministers of the European Union and the candidate countries. Of course, the current freeze on any negotiations with Turkey on accession has been recalled. But that does not prevent us from continuing to be in contact on security or migration issues because the situation requires it. With regard to the establishment of new governments, whether in Austria, Germany or elsewhere, we must obviously wait for the precise definition of the programmes before we can react to the actions or proposals to be formulated by these different governments.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic783x.u4	Thank you very much, Minister. So there are still a lot of discussions to come.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic783x.u5	Minister, the EU is the most prosperous region in the world and an important trading bloc. A trade agreement with the European Union is often proposed as an almost guaranteed source of wealth and prosperity. In this respect, it is very advantageous for a poor West African state such as Sierra Leone on paper to conclude a fisheries agreement with the European Union. The country would thus be the ninth in the region to conclude such an agreement with the EU. European shipping companies will then have the right to fish on a large scale in national waters. However, the problem is that these fisheries agreements have a major impact on fish stocks and local economies. Species of fish that used to be abundant have almost completely disappeared. Whole communities of fishermen in West Africa are losing their income as well. The way in which these agreements are implemented and complied with is also questionable. In MO Magazine it was stated that there were deliberate vagueties in the agreements, which greatly increased the number of fish allowed to fish, without the knowledge of the African countries. It also stated that there were several cases of European fishermen deliberately fishing for shark fins, despite the 2003 European ban. Minister, you are committed to Belgium in the cleansea campaign to combat marine pollution, but if the European Union exhausts fish stocks in this way, it will be a measure of nothing. Firstly, why does the European Union refuse either to exercise control over the fishing fleets in Africa or to provide the assistance requested to African countries to carry out the control itself? Secondly, do you know how many Belgian companies are involved in fishing on the West African coast? Thirdly, how will Belgium, as part of its commitment to achieving the SDG 14 sustainable exploitation of the oceans, respond to the call for more transparent fisheries agreements with West Africa?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic783x.u6	Madam President, Mrs Pehlivan, the EU Fisheries Partnership Agreements offer Member States fishing opportunities in third country waters. However, the agreements only provide for the issue of fishing licences for the exploitation of surplus marine resources of partner countries. The partnership provides financial compensation for the EU, of which more than half is intended for the development of the fisheries sector in the third country concerned. Many partnership agreements provide technical support to partner countries in order to strengthen their supervisory capacity. A joint EU partner country committee shall regularly assess the development of fisheries and fisheries. The Belgian fleet does not fish in West African waters, but only in the waters of the European Union. Belgium is therefore not a directly involved party to these agreements. The EU plays an important role in combating illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. Belgium fully supports the EU's commitment to combat such fishing activities, which pose a serious threat to the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fish stocks, seas and oceans.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic783x.u7	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. There is, of course, a concern, which I could also draw from the article. I am glad that Belgium is not involved, but I suspect that other European countries are involved and that there should be better supervision. I'll follow up on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic783x.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we move on to questions on the situation in the DRC and in particular on the preparations for the elections. Several questions have been tabled; some have been raised several times. These are probably different aspects. For the sake of brevity, colleagues could perhaps limit their intervention by bringing together their questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic783x.u9	Madam President, do you have any idea when the questioners of item 1 will be present?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic783x.u10	I just wanted to wait for the colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic783x.u11	Madam President, I have no problem waiting, provided, of course, that Members are on their way.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic783x.u12	The members will surely come.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic783x.u13	Madam President, Minister, this question may no longer be so topical. On 19 October a visa was given to Lambert Mende, the Congolese Minister of Communications and Media. He was here visiting and needed a visa. However, he was on the famous sanction list of the European Union, in respect of certain persons from the Congolese regime. This list of sanctions was extended by the Council of Foreign Ministers of the European Union. The list of penalties provides that the persons mentioned shall not enter the territory of the European Union. Is it true that Mr Mende received that visa from our country? How is this consistent with the fact that he is on the penalty list?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic783x.u14	Minister, I will talk about the first part of my question. I would like to take stock with you of the fact that the DRC will be a member of the Human Rights Council from 1 January 2018. Of course, we can find this questionable. The United States, in particular, has made itself strong. The same applies to a number of NGOs. We fully understand why at this time, when the government struggles to take responsibility for holding elections that should have already taken place. First of all, I would like to know the Belgian position on this. Some consider that the European Union should also take a position. We need to know whether or not there is a possibility to reconsider this decision. My second question is more relevant. You recently visited the DRC to inaugurate our embassy. You cannot be said to have received a warm welcome. So, more broadly, what is the state of our diplomatic relations with the DRC and with the government in place?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic783x.u15	Madam President, Minister, without repeating what has already been said, now that the agreements of the Saint-Sylvestre have not been achieved, I ask you clearly what is the status of the census. What is your analysis of the unity and coherence of the Congolese opposition in the current situation? Today, the international community still finds Mr. Kabila a legitimate interlocutor, especially since he has the art of dividing his partners. I even think that there has been a different treatment of the Belgian delegation in New York, which is still, if I may say, "coffee-strong". Therefore, in this context, the time would not have come for the European Union, the United Nations and the international community to act by using all the levers of pressure on the person and the environment of the Congolese President by limiting their international movements, for example, or by freezing their assets abroad. Secondly, with regard to the assassination of the two UN experts in the DRC – unfortunately, it must be deplored that some 15 peacekeepers were killed last week – UN experts in the DRC should theoretically benefit from some kind of protection, even without being surrounded by soldiers, but we see that this is not the case. My question is dated November 16. According to your sources, do you have any information consistent with those of the Swedish authorities, who are quite upset about this, and are you aware of a reaction from the Congolese authorities following Sweden's analysis of the investigation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic783x.u16	Madam President, Minister, I also have two questions about the situation in Congo. The first, of course, follows your short stay in the DRC, in order to inaugurate the new Belgian embassy in Kinshasa. This inauguration took place in a rather tense climate between Belgium and the DRC. Indeed, there was no Congolese authority there. During your visit, you said: "We want to help the Congolese people directly. All too often, the money of the Cooperation evaporates. Belgium will put its policy of cooperation with the Congo to a halt." At the political level, the situation in the DRC remains a matter of concern, particularly following the publication of the electoral calendar announcing the presidential elections in December 2018. This announcement provoked an outcry in the opposition parties. Minister, have you been able to conduct any political and/or institutional contacts during your flash trip to Kinshasa? What do you mean by "the revision of Belgian aid to the DRC"? Is any reflection already under way with your colleague in charge of development cooperation, Mr. From Croo? Will this process be conducted with transparency, particularly vis-à-vis civil society? My second question follows on from your meeting, the days that followed, with your counterpart, the Congolese Foreign Minister, at the Abidjan summit. Can you give me a debriefing of your meeting with your counterpart, particularly on the issues of organising future elections and those, central, freedom of expression and opposition rights, when, a few days ago, we learned that some opponents would have been arrested? In this debate, I would also like to refer to the deaths of the fourteen peacekeepers. What is your view of this situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic783x.u17	Madam President, Minister, as my colleagues have said, the situation in Congo is becoming increasingly tense, particularly on the eve of 19 December, when Kabila should normally have passed on power to his elected successor in 2016. Although generally prohibited, demonstrations were taking place throughout the country, and the repression of those demonstrations was increasingly brutal. As soon as 30 November last, the police used tear gas in Kinshasa to disperse demonstrators who called for elections. There have even been reports of live gunfire. Dozens of opposition supporters, including UDPS officials and MP Martin Fayulu, have been arrested, and several of them have explained that they have been beaten by the police. Several of these arrests and acts of repression appear to have been committed by Major Augustin Numbi, whose observers point out that he excels in arbitrary arrests, torture and human rights violations. Unfortunately, this is only one example, the most recent one, of an increasingly violent repressive dynamic on the part of President Kabila's regime. Another equally disturbing example is that revealed by Human Rights Watch. According to the NGO, senior officers of the Congolese security forces recruited M23 rebels in Uganda and Rwanda to suppress anti-Kabila demonstrations, while others received special training to defend President Kabila out of office. At least 200 rebels responded to this call and were subsequently integrated into police, army and Republican guard units. According to Human Rights Watch, the M23 ex-rebels were then sent to Kinshasa, Goma and Lubumbashi and ordered to fire at the slightest provocation of civilians. Minister, what information do you have about the repression of political opponents in Kinshasa and elsewhere in the DRC? Do you confirm the events of November 30 that I have just mentioned? Do you also confirm Human Rights Watch's serious revelations about the recruitment of former M23 Rebels with the aim of brutally suppressing demonstrations of democratic opponents? What actions has Belgium initiated or intends to take to try to stop these repeated violations of human rights and freedom of expression in the Congo? Let me turn to my second question. On 16 October, the Democratic Republic of the Congo was elected to the UN Human Rights Council. The General Assembly of the United Nations was to appoint 15 out of the 47 members of the Council for a three-year term. The DRC received 151 votes out of 193 votes. As a reminder, for the four seats allocated to Africa, the group of African countries had agreed a few months ago to propose DRC, Angola, Nigeria and Senegal. As it is unfortunately a tradition for this kind of "elections", there was no choice or competition possible. However, Congolese opposition activists, human rights defenders and several NGOs, including Human Rights Watch, had conducted a very active campaign against the election. Thus, as many as 157 Congolese associations had called on States members of the United Nations to vote against Kinshasa because human rights violations had increased in the Congo over the past year. In addition, the Council, which will be joined by the Democratic Republic of the Congo, has already launched two investigations into atrocities committed in the Kasai region by the Government armed forces and militias. The United States has, moreover, very clearly opposed this candidacy and condemned the election of the Congo. Mr Minister, my question is simple: what was Belgium's position in this vote and what justified it? What was the vote of our main European partners? Has there been any prior consultation within the European Union on a possible common position to be defended in this vote? Finally, how could UN institutions reform themselves to prevent this kind of scandalous vote from happening again in the future? What does Belgium propose in this respect? My third question relates to the assassination and attack on 7 December, during which at least 15 Tanzanian peacekeepers were killed and 53 others wounded by armed men during a long and well-organized operation against a MONUSCO base in Semuliki, North Kivu province. This is the worst attack on peacekeepers since the fighting in Somalia and the attack on 5 June 1993, which killed 24 peacekeepers. Nor should we forget the ten Belgian peacekeepers killed in Kigali on 7 April 1994. The United Nations points to the responsibility of alleged members of the ADF (Allied Defense Forces), a Ugandan armed group active in the region. At least four Tanzanian peacekeepers had already been killed last September and October by the militia in the Beni area. Present in the eastern part of the Democratic Republic of the Congo since 1995, the ADF has continued there thanks to the looting of resources, but also, according to several NGO reports, by consolidating their links with various networks - merchant, political and military - in North Kivu. They have also multiplied the number of abuses against local populations. Over the past three years, more than 1,500 people have been killed in this region. Thus, on 7 December, it appears that peacekeepers were specifically targeted. Since then, the United Nations has announced that it has been decided to intensify operations to combat them. Minister, do you have more information about this recent attack? Why have MONUSCO soldiers been the victims of such an attack by an armed rebel group against their base? Do we know more today about the identity of the assailants and their objectives? What is the role of the Congolese armed forces in that region in relation to the various armed groups operating there? Investigations by foreign researchers have shown that Congolese soldiers have sometimes been among the killers, while the army of the Democratic Republic of the Congo has often sinned for lack of responsiveness when the attacks were reported to it. What is your analysis of this? What about the recent attacks on MONUSCO? Could such violence be used by the regime to justify further delays in the organization of elections? Belgium has two officers in the MONUSCO staff. Given the situation on the ground, the tragedy that has just struck these peacekeepers, the persistence of attacks and abuses and the difficulties faced by the current forces of MONUSCO, does Belgium intend to strengthen its support for this important UN mission? Have specific requests been made for Belgium? Are we considering more support in logistics, technology support or even staffing?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic783x.u18	Mr Minister, the introduction has already been given by my colleagues. Your meeting with the Congolese homologist at our Embassy in Abidjan was important in our relations with Congo. Last week the meeting of the European Council with the Foreign Ministers also took place, with an extension of the conclusions of the previous Council. It is important to know how the Belgian Government and the European Union stand against the new electoral law and the NGO law that addresses the restriction of democratic freedoms. The question is how the international community deals with the guarantees that will be imposed on Congo regarding the electoral process. Has Belgium planned a budget for the elections? What guarantees are attached to them from the international community? The resolution adopted in the Chamber pointed out that we are in favour of a reorientation of Belgian development cooperation. The people of Congo are having a very difficult time today. It's hard to argue with an empty stomach. It is important that we focus on development cooperation which is directed directly at the people. You have consistently announced that development cooperation is being reoriented. Have pistes been discussed with the Congolese partner on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic783x.u19	Minister, on 8 December, 14 UN blue helmets of Tanzanian origin died during a surprise attack in the Democratic Republic of Congo. Another 40 other soldiers were injured. Also soldiers of the Congolese national army lost their lives in the fighting. The attackers were, according to the most reliable sources, members of the Allied Democratic Forces, a rebel group active in Congo and Uganda. This group was also mentioned as one of the possible perpetrators of the massacre which took place a few years ago in the Beni region of East Congo where more than 1 000 people died. Moreover, this attack on a UN camp in East Congo, committed by the ADF, is not a first. The ADF also attacked a group of UN blue helmets in October, with two deaths and 18 injuries. Minister, the ADF, which is already responsible for several war crimes, seems to be increasingly opposed to the presence of MONUSCO. Is this an escalation of one group or are other rebel groups and militia more active in recent months? What impact will this attack have on the functioning of MONUSCO, which is already the most expensive and largest operation of the UN blue helmets at the moment? Should there be a change of strategy and will Belgium also take a position on this? This attack has increased the sense of insecurity in the region. What impact will this have on organising the elections in Congo?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic783x.u20	Thank you for all these questions on the situation in the DRC. First of all, I would like to return to my recent visit and the inauguration of our new chancery, as well as to the general situation. I had the opportunity to go to the DRC to inaugurate our new chancery on November 27th. This inauguration has made it possible to highlight, in a very beautiful way, the links between our peoples, but also to highlight a building allowing our diplomats and Dutch diplomats to work in better conditions. I have noted the presence of representatives of the majority and the opposition – that is a good thing – alongside the living forces that contribute to the relationship between our two peoples: civil society, entrepreneurs, students. Moreover, the President of CENI was also present. I am convinced that, after the end of the constitutional mandates, it is above all the Congolese people who have national sovereignty, even if we must continue to maintain contacts with the authorities in place. On the morning of the visit, I was able to meet with representatives of CENCO and civil society and my Congolese counterpart in Abidjan during a lunch at our ambassador's residence. I also had talks on the sidelines of the francophone ministerial meetings in Paris, and of the Europe-Africa summit in Abidjan with countries in the region: Angola, Uganda and Gabon, for example, as well as with other partners, such as France. As I said in plenary, I clearly stated in Kinshasa that Belgium remains committed, does not take up camp and is on the side of the Congolese people. I thought it was important to visit a rural area in Kinshasa to show our solidarity, because the people often live in particularly precarious conditions. I also sent a political message: now that there is a calendar, the electoral process must be made credible and confidence restored. Following the publication of a calendar by CENI and as the census closes, which we are announced – this is not the first time – by the end of January, I understand the disappointment of many observers who would have wished for earlier dates. As far as we are concerned, we devote all our energy to trying to obtain guarantees as to the observance of deadlines and the conditions of the electoral process – which must be fair, but also sufficiently inclusive and consensual. Indeed, it is important that the so-called "descriptive" measures provided for in the agreements of the Saint-Sylvestre can enter into force. Clearly, this means that a large number of candidates must really be able to run and that the public space must be open enough to allow for a genuine democratic debate in the Congo elections. During my last meeting in Abidjan with my colleague Léonard She Okitundu, I stressed the credibility of the electoral process and the need to open this public space of free expression. I also indicated that we were concerned about the NGO law. It is necessary to organise elections in good conditions. My interlocutor took note of this and expressed confidence in the ability to organize these elections. I remain convinced that the holding of the elections within a very short period of time will help to broaden consensus among Congolese actors. We cannot go, as is the case at present, from postponement to postponement. The date of 23 December 2018 is already late. The possibility of further delaying voting cannot be considered. It is up to the Congolese actors to determine the conditions, but everything must be fair. There must be guarantees that the dates proposed will at least be respected, that the process will be fair and that rights and freedoms will be restored. The international community must continue to exert pressure, preferably in a coordinated manner between the EU, the African Union and the countries of the region and other international partners. Belgium has been very involved in the negotiation of the conclusions of the last Foreign Affairs Council of the European Union. I was the only one who again intervened on the situation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo at our meeting this Monday. In the meantime, together with my colleague the Minister for Cooperation, we welcomed the conclusions adopted by the Council last Monday. These conclusions underline the need for free and credible elections in the DRC and reiterate the European Union's willingness to contribute to the electoral process, provided that necessary measures are taken to ensure the credibility of the process both in technical terms and in terms of opening up the democratic space. Recall that the primary commitment must come from the Congolese authorities themselves. The European position therefore fully corresponds to the position that I had had the opportunity to express during my visit to Kinshasa and my meeting with my Congolese counterpart. Belgium has decided to reserve, in an initial stage and in support of the elections, five million euros which can be released as soon as these conditions are met. It encourages its partners to act in the same direction by paying close attention to the commitments of the Congolese authorities. In fact, I had the opportunity to meet with the head of United Nations peacekeeping operations, Mr. Lacroix, with whom we spoke of the support that MONUSCO could, of course, once again give to the logistical organization of the elections. Finally, I have invited my Congolese colleague, She Okitundu, to come to Belgium together with the Congolese Minister for Development Cooperation to discuss a broad cooperation with Mr Alexander De Croo and myself with Belgium. My colleague expressed his willingness to do so and asked that this meeting be prepared by experts. The question is, above all, what can still be done with Congo in the current very difficult circumstances and what guarantees can be offered. I have had the opportunity to discuss this with my colleague in charge of cooperation and contacts are under way to prepare these expert and political meetings. The key is to ensure continuous and effective support for the people. I recalled that during my visit to various parts of Kinshasa. Already in the capital, a large part of the population is in an increasingly precarious situation. Contacts with civil society are essential in this process. We will have the opportunity to come back with concrete proposals in this area to see how to bring our cooperation back to the ground – terms that I have used with my Congolese colleague. I come back to the repression of demonstrations in the DRC. I'm, like you, worried about the arrests of opponents that have taken place in the last few days. I had appealed to Kinshasa to guarantee the right of all to demonstrate peacefully. As I have seen on the spot, not all demonstrations are prohibited. On the occasion of the inauguration of the embassy, a demonstration was held along our walls. It's at least a signal that you can remember with a bit of humor. The European Union had previously indicated that it was deeply concerned at the recent statements attributed to Congolese police officers and governors who had announced, in advance, the disruption of peaceful demonstrations organized by civil society and opposition parties on 15 November. Such statements do not correspond to democratic principles and respect for freedom of expression and assembly. We, like you, have taken note of the Human Rights Watch report on the recruitment by senior security forces officers in the DRC of more than 200 M23 rebel ex-combatants from neighbouring countries to suppress demonstrations against President Kabila in December 2016. We have not yet been able to carry out a detailed review, but it seems important for the joint United Nations office and the United Nations expert group to address this issue, as has been the case in the past. And, as recalled in the European Union's conclusions, the individual responsibility of the persons concerned could be called into question. I had already mentioned this individual responsibility on a previous trip to Kinshasa by clearly warning security officials in this area. Now with regard to the assassination of two UN experts. On 29 March, in a press release, I expressed my indignation at the death of two members of the UN expert group in the province of Central Kasaï. Michael Sharp and Zaida Catalan disappeared there together with their Congolese escorts. I have expressed my condolences to their families, friends and colleagues and paid tribute to their struggle for the defence of the values of the United Nations. It was essential that those responsible should be tried and that such acts should not go unpunished. It is up to the authorities of the two countries from which the victims come to define the methods of investigation which they prefer. In May 2017, the DRC's Auditorate General reported that the preliminary investigation into the death of the two experts had been completed. According to my information, the Swedish investigating judge in charge of the case immediately indicated that this did not put an end to the Swedish investigation. At the UN level, for the time being, an administrative survey (board of inquiry) has been set up by the secretariat. The United Nations also offered its support for the investigation of the assassination of those two Security Council experts and the prosecution of those responsible. I have asked the embassies in Stockholm and Washington and our Permanent Representation in New York to indicate our readiness to cooperate and the European Union, in its conclusions, has indicated its support for United Nations support for this investigation. I recall in all contacts with the Congolese authorities the need to make progress in these investigations and to be able to bring those responsible to justice. With regard to the humanitarian visa of the Minister of Media, Mr Lambert Mende, the following. Lambert Mende has requested from my services a derogation from the European sanctions regime which weighs on him for urgent humanitarian reasons, in order to be able to visit his mother, who is very ill, in Belgium. After warning the other Member States of the European Union and in the absence of opposition on their part within the legal deadline set by the sanctions regime on the DRC, he was granted a humanitarian visa. This visa was intended to cover a stay of limited duration on Belgian territory only, only in the context of a visit of less than a week to his ill mother in Belgium, which did not allow him to have other contacts, for example of a political nature. It was clearly communicated to him that it was in his own interest to adhere strictly to those conditions. We are in favour of scrupulous compliance with sanctions, including with regard to derogations. We cannot plead for respect for the rule of law in the Congo and we ourselves violate our own rules and refuse a visa to someone who comes to visit a sick mother, when all the criteria are met and the partners of the European Union have been consulted. We will continue in the same direction, but with a very strict application of all the criteria. Some problem with regard to the different conditions will therefore cause a very strong reaction. As regards the accession of the DRC to the Human Rights Council, you know that the votes on candidatures are secret and that it is not a tradition to make detailed public statements on this issue. I can tell you that our country attaches great importance to the establishment resolution of the Human Rights Council which provides that the Member States of the UN, when electing council members, take into account the candidate's contribution to the promotion and protection of human rights and their voluntary commitment. The same resolution also provides that the elected members of the Council shall observe the highest standards of promotion and protection of human rights and shall cooperate fully with the Council. It is, of course, on the basis of this criterion that Belgium makes its choices. The election of the DRC is due to an electoral system that provides for a number of reserved places per regional group. In the African group this allowed to handle clean slates. This means that there were as many candidates in this regional group as there were seats. The use of clean slates in such votes is deplored by the European Union. The DRC received about 30 votes less than the other candidates of the African group. That is, of course, an important signal, also from Belgium. On the other hand, I do not know for whom the other members of the European Union voted because the vote remains secret in any country. For us, as I have just said, the signal has been very clear, including from Belgium. As far as the other countries of the European Union are concerned, I cannot tell you any more. In fact, I still do not know exactly for whom Sweden voted or did not vote, in a vote which we have mentioned a great deal in your committee, since the only procedure that has been followed in Sweden is a procedure for confidential consultation between the country's political leaders under the King's presidency, but without any communication on the vote that the Swedish majority, of which you are well aware, has expressed on this occasion. In 2017, two resolutions on the situation in the DRC, one on Kasai and the other on a more general level, were adopted, which kept the DRC at the top of the Council's agenda. It is now to be hoped that the presence of the Democratic Republic of the Congo in the Human Rights Council offers an opportunity to put the Democratic Republic of the Congo in front of its human rights responsibilities and to encourage it to improve respect for and protection of fundamental rights in the country. That's what my counterpart promised. I had the opportunity to discuss the problem with him. Belgium will remain vigilant, in particular with regard to the cooperation of the Congolese authorities with the United Nations independent investigation into the human rights situation in Kasai. The attack on the blue helmets in Congo took place on the night of 7 to 8 December at a UN base in Semuliki near Beni in North Kivu, with at least 14 deaths and about 40 casualties among Tanzanian military UN personnel. The attack also killed at least five Congolese government soldiers and an unnamed number of rebels. There are also three missing persons. It is the worst attack against the UN in recent years. On the same day, I expressed my condolences to the next of kin. This cowardly act, committed against people who are committed to peace, must not go unpunished. Our country therefore calls for an independent UN investigation so that those responsible can be tried. The UN is hesitant to confirm the identity of the perpetrators. There is a suspicion that this is an attack on ADF rebels, but that was not confirmed. How such heavy weapons were used is also unclear. In Beni there were spontaneous demonstrations against the increasing insecurity in the region. The incident once again underlines the fragile security situation in North and South Kivu and the increase in activities of armed groups. Although there is no link in itself to the pre-electoral context, it underlines the need for a legitimate government after credible elections to address the various problems sustainably. The fight against armed groups also implies that all forms of complicity, including political complicity, should be addressed, especially by reading some recent reports. The UN must also draw lessons from this. How can military bases be better protected? And above all: how can MONUSCO concentrate better on its two core tasks, namely the protection of citizens and support for the organisation of credible elections? That requires resources. Belgium argues within the UN to maintain sufficient resources in Congo. We have not received a specific request from MONUSCO to strengthen our support, but I am open to this debate if a request is made from the United Nations. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, let me sum up by saying that we are not fully happy with the date announced for the elections. She's very late. That being the case, we must take this date at the same time and try to make the electoral process credible. This depends first of all on an investment by the Congolese authorities themselves. We are awaiting a draft budget from the Congolese Government, as well as a number of new legislative proposals from the Congolese Parliament, in order to ensure that the elections are properly organised as soon as possible. Then it will be perfectly possible for the international community to provide help. Belgium has already provided EUR 5 million, but it is also possible to do more in terms of logistics, especially with the MONUSCO and a number of other partners. In addition to this electoral process, which we must try to make as credible as possible, the security situation remains of particular concern, as well as the humanitarian situation. That is why we will try to flatten our cooperation with the DRC to see how we can help directly the population, who is in a particularly complicated situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic783x.u21	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive reply and your consistent attitude towards Congo over the last two years. We can only encourage this. I am also pleased with the conclusions of the European Council of Foreign Ministers. This represents an extension of the previous conclusions as they were strong and well formulated. This concerns the safeguarding of rights and freedoms, the demand for guarantees and the imposition of sanctions. It is a good thing that Belgium succeeds behind the scenes in playing that role and keeping the European Union in line with Congo. I know this hasn't been easy lately. It is also a good thing that you are putting the people, who are in a very difficult situation, at the heart of the matter. They count on the international community. It is good that you ask the Ministers for Development and Foreign Affairs to consider how the needs of the population can be met. It will also examine how Belgian development cooperation can be used for humanitarian purposes so that people have access to health, education and work. The fact that you are giving EUR 5 million for the elections, albeit with guarantees, is also a strong signal. This shows that we are prepared to support it. We are the first to put a budget on the table. However, we are asking for a guarantee that the elections will be inclusive, fair and fair. I therefore encourage you to continue to follow the same path, even though I know it is not obvious. We must also remain vigilant. What will be the African Union's attitude? The new chairman will be Kagame. It is interesting to learn what attitude the African Union will adopt next year with regard to Congo. The European Union also remains interesting. It is good that you have managed to keep the Union in line, because France has taken a different path towards Congo since Macron took office. It remains difficult to keep the French in line and to ensure that the European Union continues to be strong in relation to Congo. We never know what is happening in the United States. Under Trump, there is no positive evolution with regard to Africa. In any case, vigilance remains necessary with regard to the international partners, but also with regard to the Congolese themselves. The latter, after all, have a division and control policy in the field. They try to break up the opposition by using military forces against their own people. They also try to tear apart different clans at the level of the international community. CENCO shall also be torn apart. So the situation is really not clear, but I think it is a good thing that Belgium continues to adopt a strong and consistent attitude. I believe that we will continue to hold regular debates in order to support you in your attitude.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic783x.u22	Minister, I am going to go a little in the same direction as my colleague, congratulating you first of all on Belgium's courageous position. We know that, since the beginning of the crisis in the Congo, our country's position remains constant. I would also like to congratulate you, Minister, on your efforts to "keep the course" at the level of the international community – which has also been said by my colleague, Mrs Van Hoof – in order to maintain a position that is equally unequivocal about the crisis in the Congo. We maintain it with all actors, whether in political life or in civil society. For the future of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, this is obviously a strong sign, very important! Similarly, you have shown our country's willingness to contribute to the financing of the elections, subject to certain guarantees. Of course, on the international scale, some positions do not seem clear to me and we will have the opportunity to discuss them again, I am sure. The position of the United States, which, not only on the Democratic Republic of the Congo, but also in general, does not seem to be very specific, does not seem to be very interested, in this case, thus still implying that we will have a lot of questions and topics to address in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic783x.u23	Minister, I would also like to thank you for your answers. However, with the Congo, there is a priori a tendency to give up immediately in the face of the complexity of the problem, especially as this country is caught in a kind of global Stratego game in which large countries are getting less and less gifts. China plays a game not very "Catholic", if I dare say, in Africa and has no state of soul when it exploits all possible and imaginable resources, at the lowest cost. In doing so, the current president who has always played the card "divide to rule" can use it even more than before. Moreover, this country is experiencing a dramatic situation. Indeed, while it is perhaps the richest in the world in terms of mineral resources etc., the overwhelming majority of its population lives in a state of terrible poverty. While economic improvements had been registered at the beginning of the reign of young Kabila, the situation deteriorated dramatically. It's pretty creepy! Mr Minister, your role is extremely difficult because, within the European Union, the big countries, or at least those who still believe that they are, do not always make things easier for you. We must count with Françafrique, even though Congo has never been part of the former French colonies. It is therefore not obvious to have a coordinated policy in this area. In any case, I am aware of the efforts you make every day to convince, which I thank you for.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic783x.u24	Minister, thank you for this comprehensive point of the situation. We've already talked a lot about it. It is always very interesting to be able to take stock of the situation in the DRC in this committee, especially after the contacts you have conducted in recent days. I fully share your desire to make the electoral process credible. This is obviously the priority for all of us. This must be done at Belgian level but also at European level. I am concerned because you said that in the European Foreign Affairs Council you were the only one who spoke on this subject. I salute your voluntarism. It was you who asked to put this item on the agenda. I pay tribute to you for that. I am particularly concerned, although I know that you are very much being listened to in the European Council on this issue, about the inertia of your European partners. Europe also has a role to play, not only in terms of funding but also in terms of support for the electoral process. In terms of cooperation, you answered my questions and clarified your thoughts. I hope that the invitation to the DRC Minister for Cooperation will be met and that he can come to discuss it. It would be interesting if we could be involved in how this cooperation will be redistributed, not to mention the active Belgian and Congolese civil society. As you know, Minister, a motion for a resolution circulated a little more than ten days ago. At the informal meeting we had on this resolution, I had suggested having contact with you because my concern is that we should come back and throw oil on fire in diplomatic relations between our two countries and make it difficult for you to do so. I don't think this is the time. In that context, I had suggested that we could hold a meeting in camera in your presence with the Minister for Cooperation to discuss the measures that we might propose so as not to jeopardize the process. While diplomacy is obviously important, government diplomacy is, of course, equally important. I reiterate the request to organize this type of debate at the beginning of the year to take the time to discuss the situation and to see how best to achieve this credible election process. How can parliamentarians support you in government diplomacy? I think this is an interesting debate to be held in this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic783x.u25	Minister, I thank you for this answer, which is indeed sufficiently comprehensive and detailed. I'm just like you, pretty worried, a few days from that December 19th anniversary date. There is every reason to fear further violence. The exasperation and determination of the Congolese people in the current political situation is known and can be understood. We must remain extremely attentive to what is going to happen and be able to intervene, if necessary, to save human lives and try to ensure that there is no more catastrophic situation for the Congolese people in the Congo. This for the next few days. We will see what will happen, but I stress the concern and the eminence of a very important danger of violence in the Congo. In any case, there is a flight ahead of the Congolese authorities, who seem not to want to see the situation as it develops. Unfortunately, I am perplexed and dubious about the genuine will of the Congolese authorities to finally respect their words and a political timetable that would enable the Congo and its people to emerge from the crisis. But, you are right, we have no choice but to take note and take this timetable seriously. You are also right to believe that the Congolese government must take certain steps and, in particular, adopt laws to enable credible elections to be held. In my view, we should not fund a process that would be just a powder in our eyes and that would lead us to the opposite of what we are looking for today for the Congolese population. As far as cooperation is concerned, I believe it is important to implement quickly our resolution of more than a year's duration, which states that we must no longer go through the Congolese Government in order to achieve our cooperation. We must take our resolutions seriously. I would like – as Mr Crusnière mentioned – to have a job done in camera – as I asked – so that it can be as effective as possible. Our wish, to all of us here I think, is to avoid a bloodbath in the Congo as well as further dramas and misfortunes for the Congolese people. It is therefore necessary to check which devices are likely to go in the right direction and which ones would actually be counterproductive. Our wish, through this resolution, was to give priority to cooperation through NGOs. The new law of cooperation that has just been adopted by Parliament makes it possible to support local NGOs more effectively. It seems to me that this new instrument can be used. We need to analyze how to apply it. It would be useful to speed up this provision of our resolution, given the new possibilities offered by the law in the field of development cooperation. I also call for the effective implementation of targeted sanctions and for consideration of the possibility of additional targeted sanctions. Indeed, we know that the first power circle in the Congo is very sensitive to these targeted sanctions. These are perhaps the most effective and it would be interesting to see with you whether we can begin a reflection to strengthen sanctions against individuals at the top of the Congolese power, who are particularly dangerous and who, as a result of these sanctions, could be neutralized and deterred from violence against their own people. I would like to welcome the Minister's work at the European Council. In this context, I am pleased with Belgium's position, even if it is implicit. This shows the complexity of things! We did not vote in favour of Congo's participation in the Human Rights Council or, at least, abstained. I don't know our exact position. I remember you pleaded for this to be discussed in Kern. I don't know if this discussion took place. It was a question of defining a position of the government. I also heard that your position would be more transparent. However, this was not the case because if I had not asked you a question, we would still not know Belgium's position. It would also have been interesting for the European Union to show more determination. I therefore encourage you to propose this debate to the European Council because, had it adopted a unanimous and claimed position on this issue, it would have weighed very strongly on the political and psychological level among the Congolese population, who feel that they are not being heard on this issue of freedoms and human rights. I would like to thank you again for this debate, which would be useful if it were to be extended in camera.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic783x.u26	Minister, it is a complex problem and you will see that interest in it lives in Parliament. I agree with the request made by my fellow Members to examine the Congo file very closely, after which we can discuss it freely and openly. This is necessary for the future, especially in the run-up to the elections. I suspect that the Congolese people expect this from us, also in the context of the situation of the UN soldiers. They trust that their civil rights will be protected and that there will be some form of security there. If there are incidents, that also means that their trust will be destroyed. That is why I am pleased that, if I understand correctly, there will be an independent investigation into the incidents. I do not know whether there is a certain timing so that we can take this with us in the context of the discussion of the Congolese situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic783x.u27	Madam President, Minister, we have already had the opportunity to address the problem of abuses committed in Libya. I also welcome the motion for a resolution by my colleague and friend, Georges Dallemagne, which was tabled at the last plenary meeting. France called for an early meeting of the UN Security Council on the abuses committed against migrants in Libya, in order to brandish the threat of international sanctions if Libyan justice does not prevail. Paris hopes that the International Organization for Migration and the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees will make public the "real state" of the situation in Libya, particularly with regard to the alleged trafficking of migrants. So, Minister, what is the position of Belgian diplomacy on this matter? Can you tell us more about the current situation of migrants in Libya and their rights? How do you urge the Libyan authorities to respect fundamental human rights in your bilateral relations? How will the European Union act, in particular following the conclusions of the EU-Africa Summit? With regard to the humanitarian aspect, in August last year NGOs had to temporarily suspend their search and rescue operations for migrants in the Mediterranean because of the establishment by Libya along its coast of a prohibited zone unless foreign ships were allowed to do so. This is the case, in particular, of the international NGO Save the Children, which followed the lead of Médecins Sans Frontières and the German NGO Sea Eye. So, Minister, in the face of this Libyan decision, what about the humanitarian operations in the Mediterranean Sea carried out by NGOs and the consequences for the operations of the European Sophia mission?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic783x.u28	Minister, although we have been able to discuss this issue recently in plenary, it is important to re-examine it with you. It was with great horror that we discovered what CNN journalists filmed. We can consider this to be an auction of migrants, mainly in Libya. Near Tripoli, they witnessed the sale of a dozen people in a few minutes for variable sums of money. Journalists speak of a slave market while Libyan officials explain that they heard rumors but could not see anything special. The United Nations has directly denounced an inhumane situation in addition to a long list of reports of violence, abuse and torture revealed by United Nations observers in Libya. Minister, what is the current state of affairs? How and by what means will the United Nations react to this shocking observation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic783x.u29	Mr Minister, I would like to point out that you have rightly mentioned very recently in plenary that, unfortunately, the problem of slavery is not confined to Libya, and that many other countries, such as Mauritania and others, are also experiencing this phenomenon of redevelopment, if I may say so, of slavery. Nevertheless, our gaze must also be directed towards Libya. My questions were initially addressed to Mr Franken, Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration. I asked him: - what was Belgium's position at the request of the Chairperson of the African Union Commission requesting an emergency meeting of the United Nations on slavery; - whether he was in charge of refugee policy within the European Union in support of this request by the African Union; - and what actions and initiatives Belgium has taken through its voice in this matter. Of course, the Deputy Prime Minister is better placed than the Secretary of State to answer all these questions!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic783x.u30	Mr Flahaux, that will of course depend on the answer. Minister, the European Council will meet tomorrow and the day after tomorrow to discuss migration. The extraterritorial area will probably also be on the agenda and hopefully the situation in the detention camps in Libya as well. I would like to take a closer look at the position that Belgium will take. I am also interested in the Swedish position, because Sweden is an important country, but I will try to find out through other channels. Today I am asking about the Belgian position. Colleagues have already said that the reports mention terrible events, which have been happening since the summer of 2016 as I have been told, but have only recently rightly provoked some indignation. It's not just about slavery, it's about imprisonment, sexual violence, torture. People involved are just migrants, refugees seeking protection. There are reports from the UN Human Rights Commissioner, there is a testimony from the doctor Pietro Bartolo and there are the footage from CNN. My question to you and to the Belgian Government is whether you are in favour of a halt to the agreement between the European Union and Libya on cooperation with the Libyan Coast Guard? In fact, detention is an extension of that agreement. Mr Flahaux says that there is also slavery in Mauritania, but what is happening in Libya is a direct consequence of how we deal with migration from Europe. We will never be able to say that we did not know, because the reports have been around for a long time. I therefore ask you whether the European Union will cease cooperation with the Libyan Coast Guard as long as the terrible detention conditions continue. What position will Belgium take? Will you also argue that the European countries should immediately place the issue on the agenda of the Security Council and the Human Rights Council? Will you argue that the EU should intervene immediately with the Libyan authorities in order to protect migrants and lift detention? Quid the repatriation operations that can be set up from Libya to bring people back to their country? What funding will be against this? Will Belgium participate in the resettlement plan for the most vulnerable, as foreseen in the Task Force? I also put questions about this to Secretary of State Francken and Minister De Croo.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic783x.u31	Madam President, Minister, thank you for taking this question into consideration. Of course, most aspects have already been mentioned by my colleagues. I do not think we should question the policy here today, as Mr De Vriendt did just now, but we should, of course, look at what is happening in those camps. What is happening there is inhumane, incomprehensible and unacceptable. We need to take action against that. People are people. We must dare to question such a criminal act and we must dare to oppose it. We must dare to take action against this. Hence my next general questions, Minister. Are the messages you're getting correct? What do the UN say about that? The French President, Mr Macron, has already announced that he will launch an emergency operation. Will our country go along with that?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic783x.u32	Mr Minister, on 23 November last, I asked you in plenary about the specific actions your government intends to take to put an end to the slave markets in Libya, a crime against humanity, as President Macron rightly pointed out, and, more broadly, to bring an immediate end to the many other human rights violations against refugees and migrants in Libya, in particular as a result of their refoulement in cooperation with the European Union. You had then referred to general measures already taken by Belgium but not specific to Libya and which have so far been ineffective in countering the reappearance of this particularly shocking type of slavery, where we see human beings sold to the highest bidder according to their physical condition. Since then, three weeks have passed and several international meetings (European Union, United Nations, African Union) have taken place where this issue could or should be addressed in an emergency. Others are planned; Mr. De Vriendt y referred. Minister, can you tell me what initiatives you have taken with our European and international partners to take concrete and rapid action to put an end to this heinous trade in Libya? What was the content of the discussions in the EU Foreign Affairs Council on this subject? What specific measures have already been taken to help migrants in Libya and to ensure that they are treated in a manner that is dignified and respectful of their most basic rights? At the same time, the Libyan authorities had expressed their willingness to put an end to these criminal practices and had announced, on 19 November, the opening of an investigation which should be completed as soon as possible. What's the status of this investigation? Has the Libyan government taken immediate concrete steps to prosecute those responsible for these human trafficking and to ensure respect for the rights of migrants? On the other hand, I had another question concerning the motion for a resolution that I had tabled, aimed at putting an end to the slavery and human rights violations against migrants in Libya, which called, inter alia, for the suspension of European support for the refoulement of migrants to Libya; for the speedy delivery of assistance to the victims; for urgent humanitarian assistance to be provided; for the perpetrators of these abject acts to be found and pursued, if necessary, before international justice; and for the efforts of the African Union and the United Nations to repatriate those Africans who so wish or have been denied asylum to their countries of origin. But in a totally incomprehensible and especially unacceptable way in view of the urgent humanitarian issues, the majority rejected the request for an emergency which I made in plenary on 7 December last. There was no doubt, however, that there was an urgency in this case. It is therefore not yet possible to debate this text in committee. However, can you tell me your Government's position on the few main requests I have just mentioned, which are contained in this motion for a resolution?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic783x.u33	Madam President, I would like to reiterate my strongest condemnation of the abject practices revealed by CNN's images. I have already expressed this condemnation in a press release on 22 November and in my speech to the House in plenary the following day. In addition to exhaustion, thirst and accidents, UNHCR and humanitarian organizations attribute the causes of deaths along the road to Libya to summary executions, torture, ill-treatment, sexual violence, forced labour and slavery. The same organisations consider that these human rights violations are also perpetrated in Libya, against thousands of migrants waiting for a crossing to Europe. The political and security environment in Libya, however, does not allow humanitarian organizations, mainly UNHCR, but also other international actors, including the International Organization for Migration, to provide adequate protection for migrants in the country. Many of them are located in places that these organizations do not have access to. They may be either official detention centres or irregular centres, transit centres or transit houses run by militias and criminal networks, including genuine slave traders who consider migrants to be a commodity likely to be exploited, subjected to forced labour or sexually exploited. Libya, unfortunately, remains characterized by the political impasse. It is a country cut in two that is experiencing a very unstable situation on the ground while the terrorist threat persists. For all these reasons, it is essential to arrive at an inclusive political solution and to fully support in his efforts the Special Representative of the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Mr. Ghassan Salamé. An action plan was presented at the end of September. The task would not be easy, but Mr. Salamé was on the right track and the entire international community must support him in that mission. On the issue of the treatment of migrants, the United Nations Security Council unanimously adopted resolution 2388 on trafficking in human beings in conflict on 21 November. This resolution targets, inter alia, the financial flows of traffickers and calls on all countries to accede to the convention against transnational organized crime. The Security Council also held a special meeting on 28 November at which the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, Mr. Filippo Grandi, and the Director-General of the International Organization for Migration, Mr. William Swing, made recommendations to put an end to trafficking in migrants and refugees in transit in Africa. These recommendations include the promotion of the right to asylum, the dismantling of trafficking networks and increased support for the Libyan authorities. Whether through the European Union or bilaterally, Belgium consistently advocates that the Libyan authorities should redouble their efforts to improve the protection of human rights, especially of the most vulnerable. On 10 December, Belgium associated itself with a statement by a dozen international partners, in particular calling on the Libyan authorities to investigate allegations of slavery of migrants and to publish the results of their investigations as soon as possible. In the long run, we believe that detention centres in Libya should be closed. In the meantime, we call on the Libyan authorities to urgently ensure unhindered access to all detention centres for IOM and UNHCR, so that these organizations can increase their assistance and improve the living conditions of migrants and refugees. On 28 November, a meeting was held between the European Union ambassadors to the PSC and the representatives of the Arab League, where Libya was present and where this message was reiterated. Libya has confirmed its readiness to comply with international standards and norms. Belgium, of course, supports these efforts, but also wants to go further in order to combat impunity. The Libyan Government has opened an investigation and our country is asking for this investigation to be completed as soon as possible. Ms Fatou Bensouda, prosecutor of the International Criminal Court, recently announced her intention to open an investigation into the crimes committed against migrants in Libya. We believe that the issue of the reference to the ISH has arisen more than ever and we are in favour of the opening of an investigation by the prosecutor of the International Criminal Court. Several EU efforts are underway to improve the situation of migrants. Belgium has made one of the largest contributions to the EU Emergency Trust Fund for Africa. Through this fund, a package of projects worth EUR 160 million has been approved, long before the publication of the images. A large part of these projects are aimed at improving reception in Libya itself, providing medical care, but also assisting people on voluntary return. These actions are implemented by international organisations such as UNHCR, UNICEF, IOM and UNDP, the German Agency for International Cooperation and consortia of NGOs. European donors, including Belgium through their participation in the operational committees, shall ensure that human rights are part of the approach in each of the programmes under the Trust Fund, including the follow-up of implementation and evaluation. We must continue with this direct aid to migrants themselves on the ground by international and national organisations. With regard to relief operations at sea, international maritime law includes the obligation to provide relief to persons in distress at sea. The Hamburg Convention obliges the coastal States of the Mediterranean to provide search and rescue services.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic783x.u34	Libya has also ratified the Hamburg Convention. The Libyan government has recently indicated its wish to implement it by establishing its search and rescue zone. Each vessel, and therefore also those belonging to NGOs, wishing to participate in rescue operations at sea in a search and rescue area must first contact and comply with the guidelines given to it by the Marine Rescue Coordination Centre responsible for that area. The objective of this obligation is to organize rescue operations in the most efficient way possible and to save as many lives as possible. The European Union supports, through the African Trust Fund, the establishment by the Libyan authorities of a well-functioning offshore relief coordination centre. The mandate of Operation EUNAVFOR Sophia includes, among the tasks of the mission, participation in the training of coastguards carrying out rescue interventions in the Libyan search and rescue zone. This is intended to help the Libyan Coast Guard operate effectively and in accordance with international law. The decision taken in July 2017 to extend the mandate of the EUNAVFOR Sophia mission until 31 December 2018 also provides for the establishment of a training follow-up mechanism which should ensure the effective and sustainable nature of the principles that are provided as part of this training. On the sidelines of the 5th European Union-African Union Summit in Abidjan, an agreement was reached between the European Union, the African Union and the United Nations to extend the IOM-led programme to speed up voluntary returns of migrants from detention centres in Libya to the country of origin or refugees, to relocate them to other countries. In this context, the European Union will provide financial and logistical support, while African countries have pledged, inter alia, to send consular staff to the country to facilitate the identification of migrants. Since then, there has been a significant increase in the number of voluntary returns. I have already said, in this committee and in the plenary session, that we were able to see that in our visit to Mali and Chad. We have seen refugees in Bamako, or migrants, who had decided to return to their own country. More and more programmes have now been launched in this context. During a follow-up meeting in Addis Ababa on 4 December, bringing together the European Union, IOM and UNHCR at the invitation of the African Union, a Tripartite Task Force European Union-African Union-United Nations Task Force was established for this purpose. The meeting will be held tomorrow in Brussels under the chairmanship of High Representative Federica Mogherini. First of all, we will continue to work in this way towards a political solution. Only a political solution in Libya can put an end to the actions of militias and criminal organisations there. So far, however, there are a number of places where it is impossible for the international community to go. We are primarily trying to support all efforts to find a political solution. Secondly, we are ready to help all the actions that will improve reception in Libya and create better conditions for migrants. We do this through various organisations. We will not stop aid in Libya. I do not mean helping the Libyan Government, but helping the many organisations working there. I think it is very important to do so. Thirdly, we are continuing operations to ensure that migrants are returned to their own countries as much as possible. This is also done at the request of many migrants. That was confirmed to me during our visit to Mali and Chad. In addition to ensuring better reception, we ensure a better organisation of the return to the country of origin. Beyond this, a debate on migration policy will be held at the European Summit of the next two days. However, I can already tell you that it will be more than likely without conclusions. He will focus on the reform of the right of asylum within the European Union. For the rest, we will of course follow and accompany, if possible, all the discussions that could take place in the United Nations Security Council, since France has undertaken this approach. We will see if it is possible to go further in this context. In any case, I repeat, the initiatives taken by the European Union are in collaboration with the African Union and the United Nations, through the provision of assistance through channels of international organisations on the ground, NGOs or national organisations.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic783x.u35	Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive descriptive response. I agree with you that slavery is not limited to Libya and its borders. It is a much larger and more serious problem than that, as well as the migration phenomenon. For years, every year tens of thousands of people have been trying to reach Europe via Libya. Even though Italy is satisfied with the decrease in the number of migrants on its territory, since it was divided by two this year, there are still many who give everything they have to pass and cross the sea to come to Europe. What is to be stressed, in my view, is that the treatment of sub-Saharan Africans in Libya is the dizzying consequence of the idea that a black man can be bought, sold and tortured without causing any state of soul. It is a deep and unacceptable belief, an implacable logic which, as we all know, has prevailed for centuries and which already justified the Arab and transatlantic trade. It will have taken the conjunction of completely predictable elements – on the one hand, the call for the air of an ageing Europe in bad condition of cheap workers and on the other, a youth suffocated by corruption and the surveillance of African governments – for the roads of shame to open up again across the Sahara to the Mediterranean and the old obscurantisms to flourish. For while the movement of people within Africa has always existed, the rush to Europe has dramatically increased in recent years. It is a fact that we all make. As you said earlier, the situation in Libya is a political impasse, and it is imperative to come out.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic783x.u36	Minister, thank you for this very comprehensive and thorough answer. It is clear that the Belgian parliament and government can pride themselves on taking voluntary action on all human rights issues, whether it is for the decriminalization of homosexuality, the death penalty and slavery. We must be intractable in this last area. It is a fight led first by evangelical missions in the eighteenth century. For the French-speaking countries, it was paradoxically necessary for the French Revolution to be brought to an end and also the American Civil War. Brazil had to wait until the 1880s to see the abolition of slavery there. But it's still a reality. We're all growing up here. I am pleased to hear that so many personalities from different parties are approaching the subject. These are not criticisms of the minister, but support for the action he is taking and will be able to take in the coming weeks and months.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic783x.u37	Minister, I do not understand from your answer. You say that there is a political impasse in Libya, but yet the European Union is spending its migration policy on that country. Libya has no control whatsoever over its territory, the militias, not even its coastguard and detention camps. It's been like that for months. We can take the view that Libya should close the detention camps and that Libya should improve the conditions for migrants, but it is not happening, partly because the Libyan government itself cannot and does not have that capacity. So the problem is much more fundamental. Of course there must be a political solution, but the country is simply unable to do so. The fundamental problem is that Europe must stop outsourcing its migration policy to Libya, that the agreement in question must be lifted so that rescue operations can be resumed in the Mediterranean Sea by the European Union and by European countries. Those operations should no longer be entrusted to the Libyan Coast Guard, which saves people from simply locking them up in Libya, in the detention camps we are all so indignant about here. That is the reality today. Let's stop this. Let us reorganise rescue operations ourselves. Let us also ensure that there is a safe land route to the European Union again, not by opening the borders wide open, but by setting up hotspots, so that at least the right to asylum is guaranteed. One will only be a war fugitive from Eritrea who arrives at a detention camp in Libya, who is then locked up there and does not even have the opportunity to apply for asylum. This war fugitive is now being stopped in Libya, outside Europe's borders, and cannot even apply for asylum, while there is a very good chance that he could get asylum. However, he does not get anywhere where he could apply for asylum. There's a fundamental problem with that approach, isn't there? I do not know whether it could be discussed in the European Council tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, but I would ask you to defend that position on behalf of Belgium. What you say about a political solution makes no sense. It can't be. We must stop spending our migration policy on a country that is clearly unable to implement it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic783x.u38	Thank you, Minister, for your full answer. I think you have been very clear in your answer to my question about the situation in the camps. You think we should fight impunity. Slave trafficking and the sale of refugees cannot be done. You are also putting pressure on the Libyan authorities to complete that investigation quickly and you want funds to be allocated to improve the situation of refugees. These are important points for me. I am also very pleased that you strongly condemn what is happening there. This is not possible, because it is about people.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic783x.u39	Minister, you are describing a situation that remains of absolutely delusional brutality towards these migrants in Libya. My colleague De Vriendt is absolutely right. We have a major problem: we subcontract our migration policy with a government, which is said to not fully control the situation while remaining an important political interlocutor for the European Union. I also agree with the diagnosis of the big NGOs, which are boasting that we have a great "complicity", in any case a very important responsibility in the way things are going about today with regard to these migrants. This problem is extremely serious and of great concern. We must be able to confront it and find solutions different from those currently proposed. It is unacceptable to put in place mechanisms, as we recognize that these abuses continue and that, ultimately, we still do not have access to these detention camps. In reality, we continue to implement a policy with tragic human consequences. We must not accept this situation. We need to find mechanisms to get out of this really unbearable situation and to effectively end these slave markets quickly. It is about the dignity of Europe, but above all about the lives of human beings, who are now in danger every day in Libya. Our words of money are followed by acts of lead. These are insufficient in view of this situation and clearly do not allow it to be stopped effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic783x.u40	Should Mr Luykx still come in, he can answer his question. 21561 couples. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vandenput's 21590 was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic783x.u41	Mr Minister, I already have to come back to you with regard to the situation in Chechnya, which remains tragic. Testimony is multiplying. Indeed, according to several reports, Russian singer Zelim Bakaev was found dead in a Chechen camp, after being tortured by the police because of his homosexuality. He's been missing since August 8th. In addition, for the first time, in early October, one of the victims of the persecutions spoke publicly, face-to-face, about the violence perpetrated by the police at a press conference held in Moscow on the premises of the newspaper Novaya Gazeta, which revealed the case. The Russian delegate for human rights announced that she had received this first complaint and had handed it over to the Russian investigative committee responsible for the main investigations in the country. Mr Minister, we have spoken recently about the steps you have taken with regard to the follow-up to the motion for a resolution tabled by my group, which was adopted unanimously. In view of this new tragedy, what are the new approaches to the international community? Have they intensified and accelerated? Do you have more information on the investigation procedures opened by the Russian Committee for Investigations in Chechnya and on their follow-up?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic783x.u42	Madam President, Deputy Prime Minister, I will not repeat everything that has already been said intelligently by my colleague. Except that, of course, the confirmations were given that after torture, he was killed. This problem is much broader than that of Chechnya. It is to be extended to the whole of Russia, although in this country it takes on more violent, more serious accents. In the rest of Russia, it is a substrate of the entire Russian society that, as in Poland, makes a march towards the past, with patriotic or nationalist elements, who consider that everything that is not orthodox, heterosexual, etc. must be proscribed. Hence also the difficulties, for example, for Catholics to live normally in Russia. And so, I think that this is going to be extremely difficult between now and the Russian elections – let us be clear – but that an international investigation must indeed be carried out. It is difficult because as soon as we talk about this kind of thing, Mr Putin is draped in a nationalist "tissue" that further reinforces this element that all that is not "pure and hard" is the result of some kind of influence from abroad and therefore to proscribe. I have allowed myself to broaden the question with regard to the title of my question, because it looked terribly like that of Mr Blanchart and that, more fundamentally, the problem exists in Russia, which is wider than Chechnya.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic783x.u43	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as I mentioned earlier, we are following the situation of LGBTI people in Chechnya with great attention and, in this context, we are in constant contact with NGOs following the issue, particularly in Moscow. Of these contacts, we note that there are now no more indications of persecution at the scale we found in the spring. I'm saying, "on this scale." However, a number of particularly alarming individual cases come back to us and we continue to follow this issue closely. The specific case of Mr. Bakaev – missing, but with no official communication confirming the fate – and the revelations of Mr. Lapunov are important new cases for the prosecution. If, following our previous steps, we had seen a timid positive development in the official investigation, with the greater involvement of Commissioner Moskalkova and the latter's transmission of Mr Lapounov's file to the Chairman of the Investigation Committee, it is unfortunately clear that the case no longer seems to have seen any positive developments since then; I would even say on the contrary. Faced with this worrying fact, we are currently looking for the best approach to unlocking the situation. Our approaches, if they initially seemed to bear fruit, are currently facing a wall. We are therefore looking with our European partners at the other options available to us, focusing on the international mechanisms of the United Nations, the Council of Europe and the OSCE. Pending finding an appropriate lever that can have a lasting impact on the situation of LGBTI people in Chechnya, Belgium, along with other like-minded countries, will also continue to work to welcome and protect the victims of these abuses.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic783x.u44	I must admit that we have carried out a series of actions, including bilateral ones, but we are now facing a blockage that seems complete in the evolution of this issue. We will discuss with other partners whether other avenues will have more effect on the situation, even if it seems less dramatic than in the spring. However, if investigations are not carried out and do not lead to prosecutions and convictions, the persecution of LGBTI people will continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic783x.u45	Minister, thank you. We have the same analysis on this file. The levers to solve this type of problem, as in many cases concerning the periphery of Russia, are precisely in this country. In Chechnya, it is more serious to be gay than terrorist and in Russia, we will say it is dangerous. We are faced with a logic which, if addressed to homosexuals, is also addressed to other categories of people. This is clearly the logic of a totalitarian regime that we must jointly and severally combat by all means.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic783x.u46	Mr President, I would also like to thank the Minister, who, very diplomatically and intelligently, has limited himself to the basic question. I know that its bilateral contacts often help, as in the case of other countries, to advance the issues. I note that the notion of "Not to my holy Russia" is very important in this country, which means that, in my opinion, in a personal and non-political capacity, we were right in the Crimean crisis to impose sanctions. However, I believe that links must be renewed and developed to change Russia.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic783x.u47	Mr Luykx is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic783x.u48	Minister, Burundi withdrew from the International Criminal Court on 27 October. It's the first country to take that step. The Burundian regime of Pierre Nkurunziza took that measure, because the criminal court investigated the violence, murders and disappearances that took place in 2015 in the run-up to and at the end of the elections; crimes repeated in the country until today. The damage is less bad than could have been done, because Gambia and South Africa have also threatened to leave with Burundi, but fortunately that has not happened. In Gambia, dictator Jammeh was driven out by soldiers under the ECOWAS mandate, and in South Africa, populist President Zuma was clamped down by the South African court. Mr. Secretary, the damage has been limited to one country, but the fear that other countries will follow is real. Several African regimes have in the past threatened to cancel membership of the criminal court, but have not dared to take the step. That can change after Burundi's choice. The International Criminal Court has often been criticised in the past, because it has had too little power and lack of political support. Will Belgium change its policy, now that a first country has left the criminal court? What steps have you already taken and will you take to convince other countries not to leave the criminal court? Despite the fact that Burundi has left the criminal court, the investigation into crimes continues during and after the 2015 elections. How does Belgium support the continuation of the investigation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic783x.u49	Mr President, Minister, I should like to ask you about the proposed amendment of the Constitution in Burundi. At an extraordinary meeting of the Council of Ministers on 24 October, a draft revision of the Constitution was adopted. It is expected that a referendum will be held in February 2018 at the latest, if my information is correct, to endorse this revision. The draft amendment to the Constitution provides, inter alia, that the President may run for several other terms of office. Although the important ethnic balance within government and assemblies appears to be maintained, the structure of government has also been changed. Mr Minister, in the coming weeks and months, and in the tense context we already know, how will Belgium position itself in the face of such a request for a possible amendment of the Burundian Constitution?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic783x.u50	Mr Minister, my question is the same as Mr Crusnière's. On 24 October, a constitutional amendment was approved by the Burundian government. The President-elect will therefore be given privileges and it will be awaiting what they mean. It is clear that Nkurunziza will continue to run until 2034. Given the climate of violence and repression of the opposition, this is a worrying development and the constitutional change calls for a position on this by the Belgian Government. What is our position? What steps will we take through diplomatic channels to address the repression of the opposition and democracy?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic783x.u51	Minister, since 2016 it has been messing with a number of African countries and the International Criminal Court in The Hague. Several countries have already threatened to cancel the Rome Statute in the past. At the end of October Burundi decided to withdraw from the court, as a result of a vote in the Burundian Parliament last year. Burundi is an important partner for our foreign policy in the framework of our strategic note on Central Africa and is also an important partner in federal development cooperation. So I have a few questions about relations between our country and Burundi. How do your services estimate the risk that other countries will follow Burundi and also terminate the Rome Statute, in particular our partner countries? How does the concept of respect for human rights fall within the scope of the Rome Statute? Is this a crucial point for us or even a breaking point for us to regard a country as a partner country? What is the government's position vis-à-vis partner countries which, if necessary, terminate the Statute? In what way does that hypothesize cooperation? Can and will our country play an intermediate role in the dialogue between the International Criminal Court and countries that have decided to leave?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic783x.u52	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you have all mentioned, the situation in Burundi remains very worrying. As the recent report of the United Nations commission of inquiry had shown, human rights violations continued, the opposition and civil society were being abused, there was no measure of political openness and the population was suffering from a catastrophic economic situation. After nine months of negotiating status quo, the East African Community's mediation held a meeting in Arusha from 27 November to 8 December in an attempt to reach an exit agreement. Unfortunately, the Burundian authorities had sent a low-level delegation and did not want to make any concessions, as they believed that there was no crisis in Burundi. Moreover, only the opposition from the interior was present, the opposition and civil society in exile refused to go to Arusha and requested a postponement of the meeting. There has therefore been no real negotiation and the Burundian Government has already indicated that it no longer wishes to participate in other such meetings abroad. The future of mediation in the East African Community is not yet clear. Facilitator Benjamin Mkapa has not yet officially thrown the sponge away and is said to have even expressed the intention to hold another meeting in Entebbe. He will present a report to the Heads of State of the East African Community in January. The attitude of the region, mainly Uganda and Tanzania, will be decisive. If the region exerts the necessary pressure, all parties will be forced to negotiate. That is why it is important to talk to this region. The efforts of the UN Special Envoy Michel Kafando, with whom I had the opportunity to discuss this issue, should be commended. For its part, Belgium is making every effort to keep the Burundian crisis on the agenda of the international community. I have had the opportunity to refer to Burundi in a number of recent international meetings: at the meeting of La Francophonie in Paris and at the European Union-African Union summit in Abidjan. Our special envoy for the Great Lakes was also able to discuss this with his colleagues at the meeting of the Great Lakes Contact Group, which took place in London last week. In general, we have excellent coordination with the European Union and the few Member States of the Union involved in Burundi. As long as the situation does not change favourably, we must maintain the pressure, including the measures taken under Article 96 of the Cotonou Agreement, which are regularly extended. At the same time, we must keep the channels of communication open with Burundi, to convince it that it is in its interest to return to the path of democracy and political openness. I do not hide from you that dialogue is increasingly difficult, but I have continued my contacts with my Burundian counterpart on several occasions in recent months. With regard to the constitutional review, the government launched this process on Tuesday, but without presenting the text. We just know that a referendum will be held next February. Burundi has a perfect right to revise its Constitution, but the timing is really inappropriate: the country is in crisis, most of the opposition is in exile and the rights of those who have remained are not respected. There are more than 400,000 Burundian refugees in the surrounding countries. Such a process must be as inclusive and transparent as possible and take place in an appropriate context. It is for this reason that the East African Community summit already in 2015 called on Burundi not to amend its Constitution. The launch of this constitutional review further removes the possibility of a negotiated solution to the crisis. It is also to express our concern that the ambassadors of the European Union did not attend the ceremony to launch this constitutional revision, to which they were invited. Finally, I stress that this new Constitution will have to respect the Arusha agreement, in particular the spirit of this agreement, which has allowed a form of stability and cohesion to be maintained for several years. Burundi's decision to withdraw from the Rome Statute is regrettable. Meanwhile, the International Criminal Court announced the launch of an investigation into possible crimes against humanity in Burundi. I will not comment on ongoing procedures. However, Belgium was actively involved in the negotiations which preceded the drafting of the Rome Statute for the International Criminal Court. Since its creation in 2002, Belgium has always supported the court, including through judicial cooperation. We will continue to do so in view of the importance of the fight against impunity. The criticism you are referring to has been echoed, particularly in some African countries and organisations. I can only observe that it is usually African countries that have brought cases before the court. Furthermore, the African States with 33 countries are still the largest geographical group in the meeting of the States Parties. Finally, I would also like to refer to the recent declaration by senior representatives of 13 countries from West and Central Africa, in Niger, reaffirming their support for the court. I have always said in the past that I still had contacts in Abidjan in this regard, that we should have discussions with the African countries on a possible regional organisation of the court. I have always said that, without any contradiction with the powers of the International Criminal Court, it is perfectly possible to follow local national procedures. Why not regional procedures, for example in the case of Africa? This is also possible for other regions. I do not have a formal proposal in this respect, but it is possible to discuss it with the African Union. We must try to organise this. I believe that this is a guarantee to get more than those 13 countries from West and Central Africa on board. In recent years, we have seen the same reaction in many African countries. It is said that the International Criminal Court is almost only there for Africa. That is not correct, we have seen this recently in other cases. Yet there is that reaction. My personal reaction, which I have already given a great deal in my contacts with African countries, is that a discussion about such an intermediate organisation should be possible. Between the national level and that of the International Criminal Court, regional action can then be taken. So far, we have not seen any concrete developments in this respect. I come to my answer to Mr Luykx's question. Our Belgian week was banned by the authorities in Burundi, which I regret. A first reason for this decision is the organisation of a meeting on Burundi in the European Parliament where only the opposition was present. A second reason for the decision is the announcement by the International Criminal Court of the opening of the investigation into Burundi. These two events are wrongly attributed to us. The Belgian week that has been around for years is not intended to strengthen relations with the regime, but to highlight the diversity and relations between our two peoples. It is also a way of reversing the negative perception of our country and reminding the Burundian people, who are going through a difficult period, that Belgium is still supporting them. When it comes to freedom of expression and assembly, I can only establish the contrast between our two countries. On the other hand, we are still trying to provide direct aid to the population through development cooperation. It is the same reasoning as with other countries in difficult situations. We are always trying to help a population in difficulty.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic783x.u53	Minister, I can agree with your approach. I will continue to follow this issue, because I regret that Burundi has left the International Criminal Court. I believe that dialogue should continue and that the door should always be open so that people do not feel that the International Criminal Court exists only for African countries. In some countries there is that feeling, as you said. However, the role of the International Criminal Court is to fight crimes against humanity all over the world. All countries where such crimes occur should be able to be dealt with by the International Criminal Court. Hopefully the withdrawal of Burundi will not cause a chain reaction.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic783x.u54	I thank the minister for his response.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic783x.u55	Minister, the constitutional review is, of course, worrying. Even if we don't know what she means, we can guess. As regards Burundi, too, we must show the necessary vigilance. A good starting point is that the Arusha agreements should indeed serve as a basis for the Belgian attitude. You have also clearly stated the importance of the Arusha agreements. The Burundian people must also be properly informed about the Belgian attitude. It must be made clear through our diplomacy that we want to make the necessary efforts for the Burundian people.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic783x.u56	Minister, in the past I have asked a number of questions about African countries that have expressed their desire to leave the International Criminal Court. The answer was always that things wouldn't go that fast. Well, today's a fact. It's not a good sign. The risk is that it creates some sort of domino effect in other African countries. As you said, there is frustration among a number of African countries, because they feel that the International Criminal Court is intended only for them and for no one else. Evidence that this is not the case was delivered last week. Maybe we should think about what opportunities there are. You've already lifted a tip from the veil. I hope that it can be discussed and that it can be worked on in the future. After all, it is very important to keep everyone informed in this way. If it is something to be thought of in Africa, it seems to me to be very useful.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic783x.u57	Minister, I would like to ask you about the situation in Zimbabwe several days after the army regained control of the country. After several meetings with the Head of State, the latter finally agreed to resign. After initially refusing, at the end of the first meeting with the army leader, President Mugabe was unable to resist the pressures of the street but also of his party. Meeting in extraordinary session, the presidential party decided to replace Mugabe at the head of the party with Emmerson Mnangagwa, who was also nominated as the party's candidate for the upcoming presidential elections. At the same time, the party decided to exclude Grace Mugabe. The current political crisis is obviously worrying many foreign leaders. A meeting of SADC (Southern African Development Community) member countries is scheduled in a few days to assess the situation. Minister, it is likely that a transitional period of varying length of time will begin before new elections are held. Has the situation in Zimbabwe ever been on the agenda of a meeting with your European and international counterparts? Given the country's complicated economic situation (lack of liquidity, 90% unemployment), could Belgium provide assistance in the organisation of elections? If so, under what conditions?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic783x.u58	Mr Crusnière, the end of a chapter in Zimbabwe's history has been written. President Mugabe finally sent his resignation letter to parliament on 21 November, thus dedicating Emmerson Mnangagwa's victory in his struggle with Grace Mugabe for the succession to the head of the Zimbabwean state. I welcome the peaceful conduct of this process, and in this regard I stress the role of regional facilitation, SADC, and the behaviour of the people of Zimbabwe. The European Union delivered statements on 15 November, and on 21 November, by the voice of the High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, Mrs Mogherini. This subject will certainly be discussed again in the future, but this was again the case at the last Foreign Affairs Council on Monday 11 December, with a speech by my British colleague. I also referred to the situation in Zimbabwe in recent meetings with my colleague from Botswana, in particular, but also at the African Union – European Union ministerial in Abidjan. I feel a wind of hope going through the region. However, there are still many unknowns about the continuation of this transition, and the international community must continue to work together. In order for the people's call for change, democratization and good governance to be followed and for the country to return to the path of economic and social development, the current transition must lead to credible free and democratic elections. It is a debate that we have, as you know, in a number of countries not only Africans. I believe that what the international community and the European Union must regularly recall is the need to move towards this capacity to hold free and credible elections. This must be done through our statements, our approaches, but also in collaboration with the African Union and regional organizations. I remain convinced that without the support of regional organizations in Africa, there is insufficient pressure on existing regimes to change them. There's an opportunity here. I hope that it will be verified and that we will really give the entire Zimbabwean people the ability to choose their next leaders in free and credible elections.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic783x.u59	I thank the minister for his response.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic783x.u60	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, at a time when artificial intelligence technologies are being considered as potential weapons of war, this raises many questions. It is essential to take the time to measure the ethical and strategic impact of these new technologies if they come to occupy a place in a military or police arsenal. On 13 November 2017, the United Nations opened a discussion on the so-called "killer robots" issue. This was the first meeting with a group of experts on the subject. This follows the major interpellation of about 100 professionals in the robotics and artificial intelligence sector, including Elon Musk and Stephen Hawking, in an open letter to the UN calling for a total ban on autonomous lethal weapons. Indeed, the main danger is that these weapons, once activated, will be unable, or at least very difficult, to comply with international humanitarian law. I have drafted a resolution that is currently before the Defence Committee. Mr Deputy Prime Minister, in view of this meeting on 13 November, what was Belgium's involvement in these discussions? Did she play an active role in it? If so, at what level? What was Belgium's position in these discussions? Can you provide a brief overview of the current discussions and positions of each other? Is Belgium trying to build a common European position on this issue, aimed at building a universal treaty for the prohibition of autonomous lethal weapons, based on the model of anti-personnel mines, which is a precedent that our country can truly boast of?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic783x.u61	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Hellings, the first formal session of the Group of Governmental Experts on Emerging Technologies in the Area of Autonomous Lethal Weapons Systems (SALA) was held in Geneva from 13 to 17 November. The expert group, established by consensus at the end of 2016, meets within the framework of the Convention on Prohibitions or Restrictions on the Use of Certain Conventional Weapons. Our permanent representation contributed actively to the debate by presenting a Belgian reflection paper entitled "Towards a definition of autonomous lethal weapons systems". It is indeed important to start by characterizing what is being discussed in the work of this group of experts. Our European partners share this approach. Like other papers prepared by the Netherlands, France and Germany, Belgian paper is a contribution to the development of a conceptual framework that can lead to a definition of the work of the SALA expert group. It is the result of exchanges between experts and lawyers from academia, industry, defence and foreign affairs. Based on the unanimous recognition of the non-existence of fully autonomous lethal weapons systems at the present time, the paper aims to identify the characteristics of the criteria of autonomy, control, unpredictability, lethal intent that should be considered in order to develop a definition of work. The possible introduction of SALA as a method or means of combat could only be within the normative framework of international law, in particular international humanitarian law. The human agent always remains responsible for the choice of means and methods of combat. In this connection, it should be stressed that in Belgium there exists a commission to assess the legality of any new weapon, under article 36 of Additional Protocol No. 1 to the Geneva Conventions, whose universalization Belgium supports. Attention must also be paid to the dual use of robotics or artificial intelligence technology in order not to limit the research, development and use of this technology in civil matters. In conclusion, the expert group clarified that the Convention on Prohibitions or Restrictions on the Use of Certain Conventional Weapons provides an appropriate framework for addressing the issue of SALA, that international humanitarian law continues to apply fully to all weapons systems, including the development and potential use of SALA, that States have responsibility for the lethality of any weapons system in accordance with applicable international law. Nor should the mandate of the group affect the research and civilian development of the technologies concerned. It is expected that the expert group will reconvene in Geneva during 2018. Taking into account the technological, military, legal and ethical dimensions, the group will focus on the characterization of ALS to develop a common understanding. The group will continue to discuss options for addressing the international humanitarian and security challenges posed by emerging technologies in the area of ALS. On the basis of the continuation of the internal reflection with the actors in the case, Belgium will continue to be involved. We will see if there is a need to table new documents for future expert group meetings.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic783x.u62	Minister, thank you for this very comprehensive answer. It would be interesting to have the paper in question. I assume that by contacting your office, we will be able to dispose of it without any problems. You are right, one of the difficulties is to be able to define what a lethal weapon is autonomous or totally autonomous. On Wednesday, 6 December, we interviewed eight Belgian and foreign experts on the issue here. That remains a difficult question. Nevertheless, we must continue along this path and work with European and international partners on a definition that can be accepted by each country. It's the only way to work. There is a precedent for a weapon that has been banned and never existed. These are blinding lasers. We can draw inspiration from this. Finally, I hear your argument that attention should be paid to how to ban at national or international level, so that these weapons cannot undermine research into artificial intelligence. I share your point of view. However, from the moment that a person as influential in the industry as Elon Musk, the founder of Tesla, one of the most active companies in the field of artificial intelligence, is asking himself for a ban on SALA, I think we are moving in the right direction. I encourage Belgium, through you and your diplomats, to continue in that direction, which is the right one. Opposition and majority, we can move towards something very positive for the future of humanity.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic783x.u63	These are two attached questions because I asked a similar question to your Defence colleague and you will answer them. The American military intervention and its allies in Afghanistan began 16 years ago and the situation remains extremely critical. We learned no later that yesterday there were a number of Syrian and Iraqi foreign fighters in Afghanistan. That is the state of the situation. In response to the many difficulties encountered on the ground, the President of the United States decided last August on a plan for massive bombardment of the Taliban-controlled areas. As opium is the main resource of terrorist groups, bombings focus particularly on poppy production, implying an increased risk of civilian casualties working in this particularly problematic production, which remains one of the few sources of income in this region, including for the Taliban. That's the paradox. Through this operation, the United States wants to hit the Taliban's portfolio to weaken its military capability. However, there are many criticisms of this strategy. Indeed, according to the NGO Human Rights Watch, the initiative taken by the United States could push the Afghan population into a spiral of hatred against the West if the increase in raids led to more civilian casualties. This is already the case because, according to a recent United Nations report, 466 civilians were killed or injured in aerial bombardments between January and September 2017, an increase of 52 per cent compared to the same period in 2016. And in fact, it is the whole coalition that would attract the lightnings of the local population to it. The new US strategy therefore has serious potential consequences for all military actors currently active on Afghan soil, beyond the geostrategic inefficiency it implies. We have been there for 16 years and the Taliban are still there. Has the new US strategy of massive bombing of agricultural areas been the subject of consultation with coalition partners? If so, in what form? What position has our country taken in NATO or elsewhere if such discussions have not taken place within NATO? After 16 years of military efforts and such a catastrophic political outcome, is it not appropriate to consider another strategy in the fight against the Taliban? Could you tell me more about the trade, political and security measures adopted by Belgium and the European Union to try to curb opium trade around the world? How do you estimate the increased risk of this U.S. government bombing strategy for the security of the Belgian military currently stationed in Kabul?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic783x.u64	Mr Hellings, regarding the strategy to combat terrorism, until 2014, NATO was active in Afghanistan through the mission of the international security assistance force, ISAF. Its objective was to help the Afghan government ensure security throughout the country. Since January 2015, the Resolute Support mission has taken over, focusing on the training, advice and assistance of Afghan security forces and institutions. Since then, these forces have assumed responsibility for the security of the entire country and constitute an essential bulwark in the fight against terrorism. It is important to note that the Resolute Support mission is a non-combatant mission and that the presentation of the new US strategy for Afghanistan and South Asia has not changed the nature of its tasks. What was welcomed by the Secretary-General of NATO was the American decision to favour an approach based on conditions rather than a timetable for withdrawal set in advance. In addition to their commitment to NATO, the United States is conducting its bilateral counter-terrorism mission in Afghanistan, whose operational and tactical actions are not planned with the North Atlantic Council. The problem in Afghanistan is complex and the only military solution will not succeed in ensuring the stability of the country. Economic development, good governance, respect for human rights, including gender equality, child protection and an inclusive peace agreement with the insurgents, of which the Taliban group is one of the largest, are the pillars of the Afghan effort to rebuild the State. This effort must be accompanied and supported by the countries of the region and by the international community. In its new July strategy and in the conclusions of the October Foreign Affairs Council, the European Union reaffirms its commitment to support Afghanistan and stresses the importance of strengthening democracy and governance, fighting corruption and economic and human development in the country. In this context, opium trafficking is one of the challenges. In addition, last March the European Commission proposed a new EU anti-drug action plan to strengthen the fight against drug use and trafficking. It aims to respond more strongly to the new health and safety challenges emerging from the evolution of drug use and trafficking. While maintaining and updating the main areas of intervention and cross-cutting themes of the Union's overall anti-drug strategy, it also targets other priority areas of action, including the collection of evidence on possible links between drug trafficking and terrorist group financing, organised crime, smuggling of migrants or trafficking in human beings. The global opium trade is legally guided by a set of three treaties followed by the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, UNODC. It sets out the framework within which country Parties can develop their national legislation and international cooperation. UNODC is increasingly paying attention to the connection between the illicit drug trade and the financing of terrorism within UNODC. The 2003 Paris Pact provides a special framework for reflection, coordination and management of projects to combat opium trafficking from Afghanistan and Pakistan. These reflections and actions are carried out by the Dublin Group, which includes, in addition to representatives of the fight against drugs in Afghanistan and Pakistan, representatives of UNODC as well as 18 countries, including the USA, with the Drug Enforcement Administration, and 12 countries of the European Union, including France, Spain, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Ireland and the United Kingdom. Belgium is not part of the Dublin Group, but it is associated with its work through the European Union, which sits there in its own right. Over the period 2014-2020, UNODC funds measures and projects in the fight against drugs in Afghanistan amounting to $420 million. These include measures to strengthen Afghan criminal justice and anti-drug authorities, as well as the development of cost-effective agricultural alternatives to poppy cultivation. Belgium is taking part in all these steps, essentially, it is true, throughout the European Union, whether in terms of funding or participation in the reflection on the policies to be carried out in Afghanistan or in other countries on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic783x.u65	Minister, I have not heard correctly. Has the US decision to specifically target agricultural areas been coordinated at NATO level? No? Thanks for the accuracy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic783x.u66	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic783x.u67	On autonomous lethal weapons in NATO? All right.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic783x.u68	Check it out. There's no problem in passing it on.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic783x.u69	I do not think that a paper on autonomous lethal weapons transmitted to NATO concerning Afghanistan...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic783x.u70	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You asked for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic783x.u71	Unless it's a strategic change, we're sending killer robots to Afghanistan's fields. Maybe it's a solution. More seriously, you have said, and you are right, that the only military solution does not serve the cause. Westerners have been here for 16 years. The Taliban have been there for much longer and, unfortunately, will be visibly forced to stay there. The political key to getting out of this crisis - which is becoming more and more amplified, we agree - is to allow those people who are now attracted to the Taliban's claws to identify with the Afghan state and its policies; and to offer, in particular to the Pashtun minority, political prospects for inclusion within the Afghan state, but also economic prospects beyond poppy cultivation. I believe that the path taken by Donald Trump in this area, as in many other areas, is unfortunately not the most effective solution from a political point of view. Thank you for your answers. Let's keep an eye on this, but let's not mix killer robots with Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic783x.u72	Debates of the European Parliament 22244 by Mr Luykx and 22344 and 22438 by Mr Van Peteghem were postponed in consultation between them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic783x.u73	Mr President, Minister, a law banning abortion in all circumstances was recently passed in the Brazilian Parliament. This also means that abortion in case of rape or life-threatening situations is no longer possible for the mother or the foetus. The abortion legislation in Brazil was already very strict. This is a significant step backwards for women's rights in the country and a worrying evolution. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. What is the current state of affairs regarding this law? Has she been approved in plenary session? What is the government's position on this legislation and its impact on women's rights? Have you discussed this issue with your Brazilian colleague or with a representative in our country? If so, what was the standgun of Brazil? What steps can and will the government take to persuade Brazil not to implement this legislation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic783x.u74	Mr President, Mrs Bellens, this is a legislative proposal to amend the Constitution, which would provide for constitutional protection of the right to life from conception. The amendment in question is currently being discussed at the level of a parliamentary committee. Afterwards, the amendment would have to go through the proper parliamentary procedure before being finally adopted by Parliament in plenary. In view of the fact that this is not a final legislative amendment, I have not yet contacted the Brazilian colleagues on this issue. It is rather up to parliamentary diplomacy to do so, perhaps between our Parliament and the Brazilian Parliament. So far there has only been a discussion in a parliamentary committee. At national level, Belgium developed a new National Action Plan on Women, Peace and Security in July 2017, which focuses on the protection and participation of women in the context of reconstruction and consolidation of peace, and in particular the issue of sexual and reproductive health rights. I also attach great importance to the promotion of sexual and reproductive health rights at international level. This promotion is part of a broader protection of women's rights that our country is pursuing, both bilaterally and multilaterally. One of the preferred multilateral fora to address such issues is the Universal Periodic Review (UPR). This unique mechanism of the Human Rights Council critically examines the human rights situation of all 193 UN countries during successive cycles. During the last Universal Periodic Review of Brazil in May 2017, our country intervened with two recommendations on women's rights. It is important to note in this context that Brazil has ratified since 1984 the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women and the Optional Protocol to this Convention in 2002. Perhaps it is more the task of parliamentary diplomacy to contact us so far, but if there is a final text, we will contact our colleague in Brazil.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic783x.u75	I thank the Minister for his reply. The direction that is being taken does not immediately give rise to great joy, especially in the context of women's rights. Brazil is a country that is already not strong in terms of women's rights. Rapes of women are hardly prosecuted. In terms of gender equality, the country ranks 79th. Studies have also shown that a stricter abortion law does not result in fewer abortions. On the contrary, there are more unsafe abortions. In the context of women's rights, I will continue to monitor this from the Parliament and contact colleagues in Brazil to see if we can persuade them to take other positions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic783x.u76	Mr Minister, first of all, I would like to thank you for forwarding the documents relating to the audit of B-FAST. The report we have received is about a first phase. There should therefore also be a second phase. It seems, therefore, that this is not yet the full report. When will we have that report? The second stage appears to be the financial audit, and that is what it was all about in the end. What are the next steps in your screening and reform of B-FAST? Do you have a target date? There is also a rescEU initiative. What integration options do you see for B-FAST in this initiative? Is it still necessary to maintain a separate Belgian entity if this integration proves to be interesting for B-FAST?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic783x.u77	Mrs Bellens, the Federal Internal Audit Service (FIA) has already started the second part of the previously announced audit. There are currently several exploratory talks with relevant peer-reviewed services. Subsequently, the B-FAST Coordination Board will be provided with a document which will be explained by FIA itself on a special board. I can emphasise that specific recommendations are expected from FIA. The Federal Internal Audit Service was asked to conduct an investigation, taking into account the resources available, on the one hand, and the tasks imposed on them by the federal government, on the other. A certain freedom was left to determine autonomously the period within which their audit report will be presented. Nevertheless, we hope to obtain the results of this exercise as soon as possible. This situation, as has been said, has to do with the availability of the Federal Internal Audit Service. In any case, I will continue to inform Parliament. I asked my colleague, responsible for the Federal Internal Audit Service, to complete the second part of the audit so quickly. The reform of B-FAST remains a permanent focus of the Coordination Council. This trial is on going. Nevertheless, we also expect a great deal from the Federal Internal Audit Service and the potential recommendations that will be translated into concrete measures by the Board where necessary. In the meantime, we will continue with adjustments to the operation of B-FAST. The rescEU initiative is currently a proposal from the European Commission. Decisions on this are of course of a political nature and can therefore only be taken after a possible discussion in the government. That is why I cannot give my opinion on this today. Nevertheless, I note that the committee's proposal builds on existing coordination structures of national emergency aid assets. Given the not always convincing performance in this matter of the Commission on Operational Preparedness, questions can be asked about the committee's ambition to take control of these pooled assets, as set out in the proposal. Previous initiatives such as the European Emergency Response Capacity of Voluntary Pool and the European Medical Corps have demonstrated that the added value of the Commission lies in the coordination of EU assets, information flows and analysis, niches such as co-financing, etc. In addition, operational control of emergency response teams remains a national mandate. The position of other important EU Member States in this area is crucial. In addition, I have always been in favour of EU funding for part of our available resources, i.e. co-financing. Registration of these assets in a kind of EU reserve can of course be a consequence, under certain conditions as laid down by the Council of Ministers of 20 July 2016. I believe that proper cooperation with a European initiative is possible, but certainly not with a total take-over by the European Commission of all national structures, but with coordination between the two, with co-financing. Documents on the EU initiative are available on the Commission's website. They're available to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic783x.u78	Thank you, Minister, for the progress of the dossier. The audit is ongoing. The FIA report refers to annexes. But we didn't get it. Is it possible to deliver it to us? I'm sorry to hear you say the timing was abandoned. I feel that the deadlines are being shifted over and over again. Meanwhile, B-FAST continues to work. We heard rumors that the people of Dominica recently were happy with the help provided, but that there were also some problems with coordination and with the material. That is a pity, because people deserve better, both the people who need the help of B-FAST and our volunteers who are committed to B-FAST and who free up time and energy to help. Thank you for your reply, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-commissie-ic783x.u79	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van der Maelen's 22271 question was converted into a written question. Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mrs Bellens's 22345, 22434 and 22505 are converted into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Peteghem's 22436 was converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Luykx's 22483 was postponed.
