ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic591x.u1	Good afternoon, fellow Members. I suggest we start the meeting. I assume that Mr Fonck will be joining us in the afternoon. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Hees' 15590 was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic591x.u2	Mr Frédéric has asked his question No. 15780 to be converted into a written question. Actually, I can't. He's apologized, let me put it this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic591x.u3	Minister, we have been informed through the social media by a number of NGOs and civil society organisations that they are concerned by reports that the Infocycle programme would be discontinued. Together with the Color Confession programme, the Infocycle programme makes an important contribution to shaping young people into world citizens in particular, people who are aware of international solidarity. I followed that program myself once, and I thought it was a useful program. Then it lasted two weeks. There are now no other programmes offered at that time and at that level by colleges or universities. In short, there is incomprehension because that program ends, while there is still a lot of interest in it. Many people also followed it not only because they wanted to work in international cooperation, but purely out of interest. In this way, I believe that the support for development cooperation can be extended and developed further. The programme reaches a thousand young people. The latest evaluation was positive. Hence my questions. What was the reason for this decision? On what parameters have alternatives been developed, possibly better? Why, after the positive evaluation, was the programme decided, if any, because we are still discussing the conditional clause? Did you not announce that you consider citizenship education and awareness raising to be of great importance, both in your strategy paper on development cooperation, as well as in the Belgian commitments on the SET agenda and in the responsibility for the general expenditure budget? How do you rhyme the news reports with that? Have there been any contacts with the actors developing these actions? Have there been any contacts with the actors involved, who are developing the actions? What is the impact of this on the development education strategy?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic591x.u4	Mrs Van Hoof, did you also bring your question about the information cycle? After all, she is one of them. You had two questions. Did you ask them both? [[Permission granted.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic591x.u5	Mr President, Minister, Mrs Van Hoof has already outlined the situation. I also have a few questions for you following the press reports on a planned phasing-out of the North Force. Is it correct that you want to review the funding policy of the North working Party? What policy do you wish to pursue in this respect? Will you really reduce the North working at federal level as mentioned in the press? What are your arguments, if any, for that end? How will this be implemented? What is the position on the division of powers in relation to the North? Does she belong at the federal level or at the state level? How do you argue that? Was or is there still consultation with the relevant ministers of the Länder on the implementation of the North Cooperation Agreement? In what way does this consultation take place?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic591x.u6	Mrs. Pehlivan has fallen through the flu and is home. She cannot join us for her question No. 1646. Mr De Vriendt, you had a question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic591x.u7	Mr President, Minister, by letter to the BTC of 31 October 2016, you imposed significant savings on BTC in the North. The projects Color Confess; Infocycle and Trade for Development Centre should save, in particular 1.25 million euros in 2017. There is also 2.5 million euros for 2018-2019, which is almost 40% of the budget of those three projects. In particular, the project Color Confession is known as the most important structure for world citizenship education, the former profession of Global Education, in schools. The provinces act as intermediaries and, in our view, it is important that pupils can broaden their eyes on the world through such programmes and that support for development cooperation also increases here in the North. At that time, you asked the BTC to make a proposal for savings. Of course, that didn't go very well. One question I have to ask is why you are actually leaving it to the BTC to make savings proposals. If you had a vision of these programmes, you would know what is going wrong and where savings could be made without any loss of efficiency or result. A first proposal was then rejected and the second proposal was accepted. If I were well informed, most of the savings would be passed on to the information cycle. More fundamentally, the question arises as to whether such substantial savings are needed. Noordwerk comprises only a fraction of the total budget for development cooperation, less than 1%. In absolute terms, therefore, this saving is not great but is proportional to the programmes in question. Mr. Secretary, can you give us an update? How much savings are we talking about right now? Have all those involved, including the provinces, for example already expressed their answer? What is the reason for this saving on the North Service? What is your view on the North Service? To what extent is it important to you? Wouldn't it be better to postpone these savings, if that were necessary, until that vision is ready? Then we know what we are doing and what areas where efficiency gains can be made.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic591x.u8	Mr Minister, for the past fifty years, Belgian Development Cooperation has organised a series of training courses in French and Dutch in Belgium and even in Europe. The Infocycle has continuously adapted over the years to the changing vision of development. What had started as a mandatory preparation for future cooperation on field missions has evolved towards broader training, contributing to a better understanding of current global issues and stimulating citizen engagement. The current programme seems to be fully consistent with the sustainable development goals endorsed by the international community in September 2015. Since 2001, more than 16,000 participants have attended the Infocycle, given by more than 500 speakers from the private sector, academia, NGOs and civil society at large. The fact that this unique training is organised by a public institution not only demonstrates our country's commitment to global societal issues, but also strengthens the dialogue between public authorities and civil society. In addition to the budget restrictions that were already in place last year for the Southern BTC programs, Northern programs are now being targeted. It would appear that you are threatening to eliminate this unique program, as well as the other CTB's northern programs, which would also be severely affected. Mr Minister, I would therefore like to ask you about this point. Could you confirm this information? What future do you have for the Infocycle, as well as for other North programs? In addition to the impact on young people's awareness of development cooperation, what impact will this have on BTC staff?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic591x.u9	Dear colleague, thank you for your interest in development education. First of all, let me make it clear that, although the Trade for Development Centre programme includes an awareness-raising component on the subject of fair and sustainable trade, notably through the organization of the annual Fair Trade Week and the production of market studies, only the programmes "Annunciation la Colore - Kleur Bekennen" and the Infocycle are development education programmes. Let's see what this is about first. There are three programs, governed by three conventions, and they are all implemented by the BTC. First, Trade for Development Centre is governed by a four-year agreement, from 2014 to 2017, with an overall budget of €13 million. I just talked about it. Then, it is the programme "Announce Color - Kleur Bekennen", governed by a five-year convention, from 2014 to 2019, for a total budget of almost 13 million euros. Developed in partnership with the provinces, this program is aimed at students. It has not yet been evaluated, as it is barely halfway through. Finally, there is the Infocycle, governed by a four-year agreement (2014-2017), with a budget of 53 million euros. The programme is organized ten times a year, each time for eight days, and is attended by about 100 participants. It was positively assessed last year in terms of its relevance. However, the evaluation was more critical of synergies with other interventions, their sustainability and impact, the high cost of the program, and communication. Like the interventions in partner countries, we are therefore also reviewing interventions in the North. In doing so, we will examine the results of the programmes, whether there is much delay and whether efficiency gains can be achieved. It seems to me normal that all the interventions we finance should be reviewed critically from time to time. The objective is also to spend half of the Belgian ODA in the least developed countries in 2019. This implies a shift from interventions in the North to interventions in the South. What is also involved, of course, is the budgetary context, as you know. At a time when we have less resources, all programmes must give up. In view of the budgetary situation, savings on the majority of the budget lines must be achieved. The North programmes have been spared so far. I have therefore called for economic measures to be taken on these, as on the South programmes. By letter dated October 31, 2016, I had asked the Chair of the BTC Steering Committee for concrete proposals to achieve these savings. It seems to me the right way to work. I determine the budgetary framework and I ask the CTB to make concrete proposals on which I will decide. A first proposal, put forward by the CTB management in December 2016, resumed a linear reduction of the three programmes concerned. This proposal was rejected by the Board of Directors, which requested BTC management to redo its work and make new proposals. These new proposals were discussed by the Board of Directors on January 23, 2017 and were submitted in writing on January 26, 2017. The decision also dates from 26 January 2017. Uncertainty had to be lifted for the current year. For 2017, the following savings will be realized on the three programs. One hundred and seventy-six thousand euros for "Annunciation of Color - Kleur Bekennen". The remaining budget for this year is EUR 2.6 million. This amount was decided in consultation with the provinces. My office held two meetings with representatives of the Flemish and Walloon provinces. The provinces agreed in writing with this reduction, which is a modest amount of their budget. Fifty-two thousand euros have been allocated to the Infocycle. The remaining budget for this year is EUR 1.3 million. This reduction is modest, barely 4%. Trade for Development Centre receives €562,630. The remaining budget for this year is EUR 3.1 million. I followed CTB's proposal. As regards the medium and long term, the agreements on the implementation of the Trade for Development Centre and the Infocycle end in 2017. In my letter of October 31, 2016, I had asked BTC to submit proposals on this matter. I recalled this request in a letter dated January 26, 2017. Several meetings have been held on this subject with the relevant actors and further meetings are planned, both on how to make savings in 2017 and on the proposals from 2018. With regard to the "Colour Confession" programme Annoncer la Couleur, the existing agreement will continue to be implemented. It runs until August 2019. My decision to reduce the overall envelope of the programme from 12.9 million euros to 12 million euros was taken in consultation with the provinces. The provinces gave their agreement in writing to this measure. This is a saving of 7%. I quote from the letter I received from the Association of Flemish Provinces: "We realize that this scenario is much more favourable than the previous plans proposed by the BTC. That is why we will let you know, with pain in the heart, that the Flemish provinces agree to this proposal. The Development Education Policy Paper will continue to apply and be implemented. In addition to the development education programmes carried out by the BTC, my administration has its own budget for sensitisation and the Belgian development policy also finances awareness-raising programmes through non-governmental organisations. In 2016, the subsidy to non-governmental actors for such programmes was almost EUR 30 million. So it is not true that I am abandoning the development education and awareness programmes or that I would not have a vision of them. I am reducing the budgets, like all the budgets that are currently under pressure, but the percentages I have just quoted clearly show that it is not about massive savings. The information cycle convention ends at the end of this year. We must therefore at least decide whether to proceed with this and, if so, in what form. Is this still a central task of the government, given that many universities and colleges of higher education offer such information courses and that NGOs also have important development education programmes? The BTC is currently in a kind of monopoly position, as following an information cycle at BTC is a regulatory obligation to be eligible for a number of jobs in certain development organisations. Is such a monopoly justified and does not it constitute unfair competition with other institutions and organisations that offer such courses? What do the Länder think about this, which are ultimately responsible for education? Should the government not give priority to the poorest and most fragile countries in times of budgetary constraints and leave intervention in Belgium to other organisations and institutions? These are all questions that will have to be answered in the next few weeks and months. No decisions have been taken for the period after 2017. The Board of Directors of the BTC discussed the future of Infocycle yesterday. There was unanimity around the table about the fact that there is certainly a need for a training programme in the future, but that, if it is continued, this programme should be thoroughly remembered and adapted to the current development paradigm. Much greater use must also be made of modern technologies. There is currently no consensus within the Management Board on how such a programme should look from 2018. However, it was agreed that further consideration will be given to this subject this year with a view to a new programme starting in 2018. That programme may look different than it has been for the last ten years, but this seems to me to be normal. After all, the world is not standing still! For the monopoly position, as I have just described, there seems to be no support for it. The Director-General for Development and Humanitarian Aid announced yesterday at the Board of Directors of the BTC that the obligation to follow the Infocycle as a recruitment condition will be removed. Attention, let there be no misunderstanding about this! I think it is very useful for young people to receive training on the issues of international development and sustainable development objectives. In the future, too, I would like to encourage this and even partially finance it. I do think that young people should be able to choose where they are going to be trained. Undoubtedly, my administration can draw up a list of training programmes which are of good quality. From this can then be chosen by people who wish to follow a training. I expect a written proposal from the board of directors of the BTC by the end of the month.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic591x.u10	Minister, it is clear that all this has not yet been completed, certainly with regard to Infocycle and Color Confession. It had also become clear to me that it is indeed a saving, as there are savings everywhere, although it is rather limited. I am glad that the programme can be continued. Of course, it is necessary to update from time to time. You have a hand in opening up the debate on development cooperation to those countries that everyone ultimately thinks are acceptable. I have no problem questioning anything. The information cycle can perhaps be updated, which I do think is important for the support. I am not under any illusions: development cooperation will evolve in the coming decades, and it is quite possible that it will be more investment than subsidising. I do think it is important that if people want to invest in development cooperation, there is some support. This is done both in education and via the Infocycle. If those things are taken away without alternatives, I find that a problem. So it is important when we update that something is coming up that is up-to-date and that helps people to be open to development cooperation and to understand other cultures. This is done through education and training. If we take that away without alternative, I don't think that's a good thing. Of course, I hope that the debate through BTC or perhaps already Enabel............................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic591x.u11	From January 1st next year BTC disappears as a name. So far, I'm using it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic591x.u12	Minister, I am glad that this is not a phase-out. Of course, we fully agree with the fact that, in view of the economic and financial situation, savings must be made everywhere, including in development cooperation. Of course, we are also very much in favour of efficiency gains. A monopoly is also difficult for us to accept. What is important to us is that the support for international cooperation remains as broad as possible and is even increased, including in the North. Development education programmes do indeed contribute to this. However, Mrs Van Hoof has already mentioned this. I am therefore very pleased that you have contacted the provinces to confirm the decision and the question and that they have given their consent.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic591x.u13	Thank you, Minister, for your reply, but I am very concerned. You go very far in a number of areas. Firstly, the fact that development cooperation is being saved is not an unwritten law. It's your decision and the government's decision to do that. It's basically used as a deus ex machina, but it's entirely your own decision to cut that deep. I keep wondering why an evaluation of the North Service and of the programmes is not being carried out, and then looking at where and how certain things can be improved, without affecting the budget. I do not understand why, if anything can be improved, the programmes should be sanctioned with less budget. That's a very strange way of doing things. On the one hand, you say that the savings of 7% are minimal. Fortunately, the hardest is averted. On the other hand, in the second part of your answer, you are questioning a number of fundamental things. You ask why these Noordwerking and the awareness projects on development cooperation should still be a core task of the government. Why wouldn't that be for the NGOs? However, you are also cutting into the skin of NGOs in development cooperation. Everyone is affected by your budget cut. Moreover, we are talking here about 1% of the total budget for development cooperation. Even of that, you say you're going to shift it to the South. We will continue to fight, with the heels in the sand, against savings in the North. This is raising awareness of our young people in the schools. This expands their gaze, this gets them to know the world. We do not accept that this should be restricted, especially if you go as far as you have said in your reply. After all, you are fundamentally questioning everything. We are not going to accept that and we are going to continue to protest against it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic591x.u14	Minister, thank you for these points of answer. Unlike some of my colleagues, I am not happy with the measures taken or the elements of your response. I note that these are indeed savings, that development cooperation is once again being used as a simple component of budgetary adjustment. Unfortunately, it's a vicious circle. To cut through the North programmes, to cut down their budgets while raising awareness of development cooperation, means to ensure that fewer and fewer people and young people will be aware of its issues in the future, fewer and fewer people will be interested in it and, as a result, will be less and less involved in projects and investments in this department. This will make it possible to make more savings on this component. I repeat that I regret this vicious circle and that, unlike my colleagues, I am not happy about it. You have easily beautiful game to empower the board of directors. But the latter must do so with the means granted to him and by you in this case. And they reduce themselves as the skin of grief.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic591x.u15	Mr De Vriendt, you say it is about 1% of the budget. That's not right. Around EUR 30 million for NGOs goes there. About 10 to 13 million euros within the BTC are about this. It is about just over 40 million euros, which is about 3% of the budget. Saying that it is small is therefore not correct; it is three times larger than what you mention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic591x.u16	Mr Minister, we are talking here about the programmes within the BTC. You will save within the program services, within the BTC. You are responsible for this by saying that these funds are going to be transferred to the South. We are talking here about 1% of the total budget for development cooperation, of which you feel it is necessary to shift it to the South, whereas the BTC has an expertise that we all have to recognise. Again, the North Service is essential. I don't understand why you want to touch that. If it can be improved, do it, but why keep saving? You are the champion in saving in your own department and undressing your own department. Is that the track record with which you want to finish your ministership in 2019? I don't understand that very well. A minister of development cooperation should fight for his budget, North and South.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic591x.u17	I note that you do not trust NGOs in the field of development education. Today, NGOs are doing very well. You're assuming that only BTC can do that. In your view, the NGOs doing about EUR 30 million today are not the same. I'm just establishing that. Saying that I reduce my policy to making savings is unfair. I believe that we are pursuing a very different policy. Despite savings, we are pursuing a policy in which we are now leading in many areas throughout the world. We have attracted the debate to emphasise the least developed countries. Attracting other forms of funding is what we do. Making sure that the Gag Rule is reduced, that's what we do together with the Netherlands. It's a different part. In a number of areas, we take the lead instead of following the way too much has happened in the past. In my view, that has little to do with budget. It has to do with the ambition that one shows and adapts to a world that is a very different world today, a world one likes to see but in which everything is limited to the evaluation of how much one spends. My evaluation is different and relates to the impact I have. You look at the input, I look at the output.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic591x.u18	I believe that we should not save in the North, neither in the BTC nor in the NGOs. You are now addressing an element, a dimension, the BTC, and I don't think that's a good thing. I am thinking of our young people in our schools who can continue to use such projects. As far as savings are concerned, the following. I am not too bad to say that some of your reforms are good. However, do those reforms with the same budget. Why would you have to cut that budget? Do good things with the same budget. Then the output would be much better. For us, the output primes. One can by definition have less output with less money. If you save 1 billion euros in five years, you cannot say that this will have no impact on output. That remains, moreover, a major blind spot in policy. Although some of your reforms are good, I ask every year when discussing the policy papers to come to Parliament with a clear impact assessment. Show us what good impact your projects all have. However, that remains a blind spot under your policy on development cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic591x.u19	Minister, I would like to ask you about the agreement reached in the DRC at the end of December with a view to an inclusive transition and the holding of new elections - hopefully - in 2017. In particular, the agreement provides that President Kabila, whose term ended on 19 December, will remain at the head of the country and will not be replaced until after the election of his successor. In return, the opposition was satisfied on two points: the creation of a National Transitional Council, which should have been chaired by the historic opponent Étienne Tshisekedi, who unfortunately died, and the appointment of a Prime Minister from the so-called "Opposition Assembly" or G7 coalition. Your colleague Didier Reynders welcomed the conclusion of this agreement and said that "Belgium will be attentive to the implementation of this text, as well as to the steps that will be taken to restore democratic space and rights and freedoms, so that all opinions can be expressed in the country and that the elections can be an authentic reflection of the aspirations of the Congolese people". Mr Minister, in your general policy note, which we discussed, you said: "With the three partner countries in Central Africa, Burundi, the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Rwanda, new cooperation programmes will only be concluded once these countries have held reliable and transparent presidential elections and, in doing so, will comply with the provisions relating to the limitation of the number of mandates provided for in their Constitutions and international agreements". Mr Minister, do you consider that the agreement reached last December is in this direction and will allow the resumption of cooperation with the Democratic Republic of the Congo? Is it possible, in your opinion, that Belgium will financially support the preparation - particularly through civil society - and the organisation of elections in the Democratic Republic of the Congo? If so, have you put any conditions in it? If not, what are the reasons why you might change your position?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic591x.u20	Mr Crusnière, on 31 December, a compromise was reached between the various Congolese parties following a dialogue conducted under the mediation of the National Episcopal Conference of the Congo. Like the Foreign Minister, I welcome this agreement, which should pave the way for a consensual transition to a peaceful resolution of the current crisis. However, it is important to remain vigilant about compliance with this agreement and in particular about the timing of free elections to be held, as foreseen in the agreement, before the end of 2017. From the point of view of Development Cooperation, I decided in early 2016 to reduce the budget by EUR 48 million on the bilateral cooperation programme with the DRC. This decision was in the context of a critical examination of the outcome and relevance of our interventions and of the budgetary context. On the basis of a critical assessment of our ongoing interventions for all the partner countries of government cooperation, I have decided not to implement certain programmes and to reduce the budgets of certain projects. In the current situation, Belgium will maintain its ongoing commitments. It is important to stress that Belgium has not suspended its cooperation with the DRC. Projects approved under the 2010-2016 Cooperation Programme and the 2014-2015 Intermediate Programme are being implemented and will be continued. For example, three projects on the extension and consolidation of the management of drinking water systems and sanitation in Maniema, Kasai-Oriental and South Kivu were signed with the Democratic Republic of the Congo in December 2016. It should also be noted that we are in constant contact with our embassy in Kinshasa and that we are closely monitoring the situation, including the security situation regarding personnel working in our cooperation projects. However, as the Congo is in a situation of political transition, there will be no preparation for a new programme of cooperation between our two countries before the holding of free elections and the establishment of a new government from the ballot box. Regarding the organisation of the Congolese elections in 2017, Belgium has planned to provide financial support. At this stage, EUR 5 million has been earmarked for support to the electoral process. This support will be part of a global effort by external partners, particularly at European level. As such, Belgium advocates close donor cooperation. The disbursement of this funding must be linked to concrete progress in preparing electoral deadlines: presentation by the Independent National Electoral Commission of a transparent budget, publication of a realistic electoral calendar, commitment by the Congolese authorities. Belgium also supports at European level the idea of sending an expert mission on the spot.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic591x.u21	Thank you for your answers. It is indeed important that Belgium, in all its dimensions - external relations, defence and cooperation - supports the democratic process that is trying to establish itself in the DRC. Of course, we must be careful and wait for the agreement to be put into practice and put into practice. It is known that the formation of the new government is somewhat delayed. Tshisekedi's death also delays things. But I am pleased that some amounts are foreseen. The Minister of Foreign Affairs also told us. I understand that there is a need for a clear and transparent timetable for these elections, but I would also like to point out that our Parliament, in July last year, voted on a resolution allowing funding in tranches. I recall that this can be used intelligently, with a first component that should allow the electoral process to start, with evaluations at the key. Thus, our Congolese partner will not be able to say that it does not receive funding for the organisation of the elections and take this as an excuse to postpone them. This track should be considered. It would enable progress to be made in the electoral process.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic591x.u22	Mr President, Minister, on 23 December 2016, BIO, the Belgian Investment Corporation for the Developing Countries signed a €11 million financing agreement in Feronia, despite the warning sound a few months earlier by civil society on the occasion of the release of a report entitled Agrocolonialism in the Congo denouncing the illegal practices of Feronia. On 2 November 2016, NGOs in Belgium and elsewhere (France, Great Britain, Canada, Germany, Spain) released a new report, which would provide new evidence of the offences allegedly committed by Feronia in its industrial palm oil production activities in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Mr. Minister, on several occasions on this subject, you replied on 9 November that you were following the file very closely and that until now you had no verifiable and verified evidence to believe that BIO should withdraw from this file but that, if it turned out, in the coming weeks or months, that these accusations were indeed well founded, you would ask BIO to reconsider its support for this company. Minister, in this case, can you tell me what exists today as an external and independent assessment of compliance with the contract between Feronia and BIO? Is it possible to involve Parliament and civil society in this process?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic591x.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, I have indeed replied on a number of occasions to this dossier. As you know, BIO has signed a loan contract worth $11 million with Plantations et Oileries du Congo (PHC), a subsidiary of Feronia, which is trying to contribute to the revival of agriculture in the DRC, in particular by rehabilitating historic plantations that have fallen into ruins and whose contribution, in the context of the DRC, is significant in terms of food security and economic development. This operation was carried out as part of a syndication involving several international donors. As a reminder, the British development finance institution CDC holds 67% of Feronia's shares and the German and Dutch development finance institutions have also granted loans to PHC-Feronia. The relations between Feronia and the lenders are of course governed by the loan contract. It is important to stress that this contract provides, among other things, a series of social and environmental obligations, which have been validated by an independent expert mandated by lenders. These obligations have been submitted and approved by BIO's decision-making bodies. In particular, this loan agreement requires Feronia to comply with an environmental and social action plan that clearly defines the results to be achieved and within what time frame. An independent expert is responsible for verifying that the company is effectively meeting its obligations. Indeed, lenders, including BIO, attach great importance to the proper implementation of this plan, which is at the heart of their intervention. As indicated earlier, I will continue to follow up this dossier. My head of the cabinet and my policy officer, specialising in support for the local private sector, met with the CEO of Feronia on 7 November 2016. On 13 December 2016, they received a delegation from the NGOs that had prepared a critical report. That delegation also includes a Congolese woman, who belongs to the communities concerned. On 13 December 2016, a meeting took place between this delegation and BIO's Board of Directors. This afternoon there was also a discussion between BIO and CNCD-11.11.11. The result is that CNCD and 11.11.11 will participate in a mission to the DRC, where a visit will be made to Feronia headquarters in Kinshasa and to a number of plantations. BIO, CNCD and 11.11.11 will prepare that shipment together. The file was also discussed on the Board of Directors of BIO on 7 February 2017 following the approval of the second tranche of the loan to Feronia. At my instruction, my Government Commissioner has attached the following conditions to this second tranche. At present, only half of the EUR 4 million tranche is released. The second half is not passed on until the late wages have been paid and on condition that wages are paid on time in March, April and May. There will be an additional mission this spring from the consultant to investigate Feronia's compliance with social and environmental conditions. A representative of the NGOs will be invited to participate in a visit by Feronia and the DRC this summer, which we have just discussed. The Governing Board of BIO has agreed to this. Meanwhile, contact has also been made with the other European funding institutions that have entered into this project to explain BIO's attitude. Some of the criticisms expressed by the NGOs concerned are ideological in nature. These organisations are opposed in principle to this type of large-scale investment in the agricultural sector. In that respect, I do not agree with them. This project is within the mandate of BIO: it creates jobs, restores valuable plantations, responds to the real food security needs in the DRC and contributes to a productive agricultural sector. I do agree with them that Feronia must follow social and environmental legislation and that Feronia must pay its employees in full and in good time. If Feronia is unable to do so from March or, worse still, would not be willing to do so, it will not be possible for BIO to maintain an investment in Feronia.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic591x.u24	Minister, thank you for these points of answer. I note that the elements that you have developed are in line with the motion tabled following the inquiry. The organization of this mission is therefore very positive, as is the involvement of civil society, as well as the further analysis of the problems raised and the decisions that could be taken if it were to prove that Feronia did not comply with its obligations in the field of social, environmental and ethical law. The motion has been tabled and I am pleased that it corresponds to the direction given and, of course, we will follow this matter and come back to you to learn about the developments and the decisions that will be taken on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic591x.u25	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Gwenaëlle Grovonius and reads as follows: The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mrs Gwenaëlle Grovonius and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Development Cooperation, Digital Agenda, Telecommunications and Post Office, asks the government (b) the accounts of Feronia and its various subsidiaries (existing or former) are effectively accessible to all those who wish to become aware of them and verify their legality, both in the region where Feronia is located and in Belgium; 2. to launch an independent assessment mission, in accordance with agreed terms of reference between BIO and Belgian civil society and by a designated expert after consultation with each other, in order to assess the extent to which Feronia is effectively complying with the terms of the contract linking it to the DFIs and the good practices commonly accepted in the development sector; 3. to present to Parliament the results of this evaluation and any decisions taken by BIO on the basis of it to ensure that the action taken in the Feronia case is in accordance with the law on which it is based; 4. to draw the conclusions on the basis of the elements identified by the investigation and if the decision was possible to opt for a cessation of the financing, to ensure a exit strategy that would minimize as much as possible the impact of the possible cessation of the financing of the company on employees and communities and to compensate workers and communities for any damage suffered as a result of Feronia's practices and behaviour." A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Gwenaëlle Grovonius and reads as follows: The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Gwenaëlle Grovonius and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Development Cooperation, Digital Agenda, Telecommunications and Post, asks the government 1. ensure that (a) the title titles including the specifications that would be signed with local communities and (b) the accounts of Feronia and the various (current and former) subsidiaries would be effectively accessible to all interested parties and their legality in the region where Feronia is located and wants to control in Belgium; 2. to have an independent evaluation carried out, in accordance with reference conditions agreed between BIO and Belgian civil society, by an expert appointed by mutual agreement to assess to what extent Feronia effectively complies with the provisions of the agreement which the company binds to the DFIs and the common good practices in the field of development cooperation; 3. to provide the Parliament with the results of that evaluation as well as the decisions that BIO would have taken on that basis to ensure that that investment company acts in the Feronia file in accordance with the law on which its action is based; 4. to take the necessary decisions on the basis of the information obtained from the investigation and, if possible, to decide to stop financing, to opt for an exit strategy which will allow the impact of any cessation of financing of the company on workers and communities to be reduced as far as possible and to compensate workers and communities for any damage they may have suffered as a result of Feronia's practices and practices. A simple motion was tabled by Ms Rita Bellens, Ms Annemie Turtelboom and Ms Els Van Hoof and Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux. A simple motion was tabled by Rita Bellens, Annemie Turtelboom and Els Van Hoof and by Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. Question No 15985 by Mr Philippe Blanchart is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic591x.u26	Minister, the European players – Member States and European institutions – and the ACP countries are preparing to negotiate a new EU-ACP agreement for the next 20 years, starting in 2020. This is an opportunity to take stock with you of the current Cotonou Agreement and to see the key points on which Belgium wants to insist in this negotiation to have an ambitious new partnership with the ACP countries. Minister, I'll ask you about the balance sheet first. First, how do you assess the implementation of the Cotonou agreements in relation to the strong expectations expressed in 2000 following the adoption of the Millennium Development Goals and the opening of the WTO negotiations in Doha, which are more marked on development? Secondly, in trade terms, non-reciprocal trade preferences for ACP partners to access the EU market should be replaced by WTO-compatible Economic Partnership Agreements (EPAs). However, this process is very slow and very cumbersome and is criticized by the ACP countries. How can we make this process flexible and speed up its implementation? Thirdly, the political dialogue was illustrated by the implementation of articles 96 and 97 in cases of human rights violations, particularly in Burundi. But what is the positive side of this political dialogue? In your opinion, has it made it possible to develop the principle of ownership in the head of the ACPs? Minister, I now come to the foresight. Firstly, how can we introduce the 2030 Sustainable Development Goals into this EU-ACP framework without duplicating UN bodies? Secondly, how can we strengthen good governance in ACP countries, beyond financial aid and observation of electoral processes, for example, in the fight against corruption - Article 97? Like the European Parliament, I call for a more effective and systematic use of political dialogue, which must be used upstream to prevent political crises. Third, the private sector can play a leading role in project financing. How can we ensure that investments are made with respect for people, property rights and the environment? Fourthly, how can we help the ACP countries to make the most of their domestic resources, in particular through strengthening tax systems, good management of natural resources and the development of industrialization and processing of raw materials on their territory? Fifthly, how can we respond to the concerns of the ACP countries that the principle of differentiation may reduce available resources and "punish" the countries that do best? Sixthly, the issue of controlling migration flows will be one of the central issues in EU-ACP relations 2020-2040. Article 13 of the current agreement refers to cooperation on migration issues. How can we best organize these displacements, which are, in their magnitude, first of all South-South migrations? I realize the importance of the subject under discussion. I think it is good to do this sufficiently in advance, with a view to the conclusion of these agreements in 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic591x.u27	Mr President, Minister, the Cotonou Agreement is a very important European instrument for development cooperation and includes agreements on aid packages, trade agreements and political relations between the European Union and the partner countries concerned. The European Commission issued an important communication on this agreement on 22 November 2016, in which it sets out guiding signs for a possible third revision of that agreement. The Commission seems to prefer to establish a common base with a separate pillar of policy priorities per region. That three-pillar pedestal will be further developed at the European Council scheduled for 16 March 2017 and at the European Council scheduled for 19 May 2017. Some buttons will still have to be cut. In that connection, I have the following questions. What position will you take on this matter? What will the Belgian position be? What elements of the European Commission's communication do you take into account in this Belgian position? Do you opt for a binding or non-binding agreement? Does Belgium choose to include new countries or not? What important principles does Belgium intend to incorporate into a new agreement? I'm just thinking about the private sector. In what way is this reflected in the Belgian position? In what way is this linked to the SDGs? Is attention also being paid to the fate of small local farmers in the countries concerned? The European Commission's communication shows a shift in emphasis on the vision of international cooperation, including much less attention to international solidarity and poverty reduction. Will you raise that on behalf of Belgium during these negotiations? What elements will you put on the table to include poverty reduction and international solidarity in the revised agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic591x.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Cotonou Agreement covers areas beyond development cooperation. In the discussions that take place on what will succeed this agreement after 2020, it is therefore a matter of following a comprehensive approach combining both economic and political development. In terms of stocktaking, numerous reports and studies have been made public. The European Centre for Development Policy Management has produced often quite critical analyses that also feed our thinking. In our view, it can be specifically pointed out that the conclusion of economic partnership agreements in accordance with WTO rules is crucial to ensure continuity of access to the EU market for ACP countries, to average incomes which do not benefit from the Everything but Arms programme for the least developed countries. Such agreements have already been concluded with the Caribbean and Pacific countries. Negotiations with African partners in five regions took longer. However, the recent conclusion of the Economic Partnership Agreement with the Southern African Development Community and its provisional entry into force in October 2016 demonstrate that patience is bearing fruit. The current legal basis for political dialogue at country level is also a valuable tool but should be strengthened and expanded, for example, to address migration issues that have so far been excluded from the political agenda with the ACP countries. Moreover, this political dialogue was initiated only with the governments of the ACP countries, leaving aside a number of actors with which the European Union could also engage: regional organisations, parliaments, local governments, civil society and the private sector. By focusing solely on Governments that sometimes lack legitimacy, this political dialogue depends too much on the political goodwill of its interlocutors. Finally, it should be noted that this dialogue could also be more strategic and effective. As regards the preparation of post-Cotonou, the European Commission and the European External Action Service published a joint Communication in November 2016. Negotiations between the Member States on the various aspects of that communication are under way, in different configurations of the European Union. Both the Foreign Ministers and the Ministers for Development and Cooperation are discussing this dossier. The negotiations include a possible geographical extension of the scope of non-ACP countries, the usefulness of the legally binding nature and the format of the agreement with strong geographical pillars. The positions of the Member States are still far apart. Belgium tries to be a bridge builder by bringing opposing opinions closer together. Our country wishes to build on the acquis of the existing Cotonou Agreement, which brings together 79 ACP countries and 28 EU Member States, and to move towards a strategic partnership between parties on an equal footing, rather than between donors and beneficiaries. In doing so, we want to meet the challenges of the 21st century and the spirit of the 2030 Agenda, which has a universal character. So I do not think that there is too little focus in the ongoing negotiations on international solidarity and poverty reduction, not only because the fight against poverty is the first of the 17 SDGs, but also because the 2030 Agenda starts from a position that is a comprehensive approach that is the key to development progress. The Cotonou Agreement covers areas that go beyond development cooperation. In the debates on the successor to that agreement, it is therefore important to pursue an overarching vision of development, economics and politics. Belgium is in favour of a comprehensive approach that better integrates the three parts of Cotonou and embeds itself in the wider external relations of the European Union. At the last meeting of EU Development Ministers in November, I underlined the particular attention to be paid to the least developed countries, on the one hand, and the thematic issues of peace, security, the rule of law, migration, the fight against climate change, sustainable economic growth, decent work and support for private companies, on the other. I would also like to try in the coming months to continue to play this role as a bridge builder between the different positions and thus to preserve the strengths of the existing agreement, but at the same time to avoid the very justified criticism that has been expressed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic591x.u29	Minister, thank you for your detailed answer. One of the things you have said seems fundamental to me: it is a theme that goes beyond development cooperation alone. Like my colleague Mrs Els Van Hoof, I want to make Parliament aware of this great debate. Of course, the European Union is already facing many difficulties, in particular with Brexit; but we must not leave the place empty. There is a need to engage resolutely in the discussions. In the post-Cotonou context, account must of course be taken of Britain's exit from the European Union, since some of the ACP States are former British colonies or members of the Commonwealth. It would be interesting to know the position of those countries in that context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic591x.u30	Mr President, Minister, your answer tastes like more. Two important European Councils are coming up. You're a bridge builder. I am interested, and certainly others too, in the trends in the poorer European countries in the field of development cooperation. After all, we do not live on an island. The principles you adopt in the field of development cooperation also exist in the other European countries. Mr President, it would therefore be useful, in the light of the decisions of the European Council or of the recommendations that will be made, to examine in committee the way in which we have positioned ourselves and the direction we are taking with development cooperation, including at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic591x.u31	Mrs Van Hoof, thank you for your suggestion and I am happy to pick them up.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic591x.u32	Mr. President, Minister, during your speech on the occasion of the CTB's wishes, you announced to the staff and members of the sector present the change of name of the future BDA, not sexy enough nor original as you say, in Enabel. In fact, we do not know how to pronounce it. You also insisted on the pronunciation and the English semantic field of the new agency. A whole program! Minister, how did you come to choose this word as a new name for a federal development cooperation agency? This name could lead to confusion with the unable English word, which has an opposite meaning. From the possible to the impossible, there is only one step to take. How can the general public make the link between Belgian Development Cooperation and this name?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic591x.u33	Mrs Grovonius, the list of sustainable development goals set out in the 2030 Agenda adopted in September at the United Nations provides the framework for international cooperation for the next 15 years. They are expected to address the twin goals of poverty reduction and sustainable development. In this context, Belgium intends to adopt a clearer development profile so that it can assume a specific role and responsibilities within the international community. On 15 April 2016, on my proposal, the Council of Ministers endorsed the priorities and principles of the reform of the Belgian development agenda. The Belgian Development Agency (CTB) has been supporting development programmes in some 20 countries since 1999, mainly in Africa. In addition, the BTC also performs tasks on behalf of other donors. For several years now, the Agency's designation of origin no longer really reflects reality. It has been a long time since the organization was limited to technical cooperation. Hence the need for a new name that is supposed to reflect current and future reality. From the beginning of the reform in 2016, a working name was chosen, in this case, as you said, the Belgian Development Agency to be able to indicate in the text and the documents of the reform the difference between the former CTB and the new Agency. The new name of the Agency was developed by the BTC in consultation with a specialised office following a public procurement launched by the BTC. In particular, the new name had to meet the following criteria: a name bearing meaning, meaning corresponding to the vision of Belgian government cooperation, a name which is written and pronounced as an identical word in all languages, no abbreviation, an url. be available to indicate that it is a Belgian organisation. Among more than 300 ideas, the name Enabel was selected. Enabel is a Belgian variant of the unable English word. It stands as the English term, but ends with BEL for Belgium, a reference that is clear and independent of the language used. Enabel is a unique name used in all languages, which is a good thing to establish the Agency's brand, facilitate recognition and enhance coherence at all levels. Enabel is a word, not an abbreviation. By linking with English, the new name of the Agency also has all the meanings of the English word, all of which point to the content of the activities of the new Belgian Development Agency. Enabel means, in fact, allowing, facilitating, empowering, precisely what the Belgian Development Agency is doing. It empowers its partners to do what is necessary to make sustainable development a reality in their countries. It must help to create the conditions for development. She has to give a little boost. It motivates, encourages, promotes, brings together partners in organizations to get things moving and achieve change. Enabel also involves some efforts. Indeed, its concept presupposes some form of accountability. It states that everyone must, at some point, assume his or her responsibility. It is a modern word supposed to resist the wear and tear of time, since it does not refer to any notion with a strong historical and almost outdated connotation such as "development cooperation", "aid" or overly restrictive terms such as "technical cooperation", which only create an impression of already seen. Resolutely forward-looking, Enabel contrasts with the past. This name is intended to bring about a positive feeling, inspiring confidence and faith in progress and progress – also in difficult and unpredictable circumstances, in fragile States and the least developed countries. At a CTB middle management meeting, this name was unanimously approved by the fifty staff members present. Building on this consensus, I announced this new name at the organization's New Year's reception.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic591x.u34	Minister, thank you for your answer. Perhaps it is because of my French-speaking sensitivity, but after hearing from each other, it seems to me that the relationship between this name and the role of the CTB is opaque. I understand that you want a name that can evolve over time and that is not necessarily attached to a concept such as "development cooperation". Our views diverge, but I can understand it. Then one can very easily come to pronounce "unable" – which has a completely different meaning. The image that emerges from it is obviously less attractive immediately. Objectively, the relationship with BTC missions is unclear. It's a choice, but he doesn't convince me. This is the case with other people. Nevertheless, I hope that we will be able to make our voices heard on the international stage, but also at home, which is hidden behind this name that is not very evocative to the common mortals.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic591x.u35	It proves two things. First of all, I don't think you're really listening. For five minutes, I explained all the elements of my reasoning. Perhaps you do not agree with this reasoning, but you cannot say that I have not given a reasoning that explains that name. As for your other reference, it simply proves that you are in bad faith. Going to make a link between the word you use there and Enabel is not a logical link, it is a purely political link that you make. When you say we're trying to sabotage that name for political reasons, say it. But making a connection between the other English word and Enabel is a link that, for me, is not logical at all. It's bad faith.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic591x.u36	Minister, I don't see why you're so upset. Objectively, I have absolutely no policy and I am certainly not in bad faith. On the contrary, I sincerely speak to you of a feeling. I have no difficulty with that. We don't feel the same way. I've heard your explanation, but I don't think we have an opportunity to explain to all people all the reasoning behind that name. People will just see the name that is "Enabel" and behind that, they should instinctively understand all the reasoning that you actually took five minutes to explain to me. I don't think they will be able to understand it and I don't think that, of course, when they see the name or hear it, they will understand what we're talking about. I hear your reasoning well and it does not cause me any difficulties. When I hear your reasoning, I think it makes sense. I'm just saying that the problem is that this name is not clear enough about the work that the CTB is doing today. I don't do politics, I'm not in bad faith. I'm just talking to you about a feeling, in all sincerity. I really don't understand how angry it is with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic591x.u37	Mr Minister, the Royal Decree of 11 September 2016 states that by 15 February of the starting year of a programme, you will have to decide on funding for non-governmental cooperation. That's tomorrow. Previously, you also said that you would make a saving of 8.6 % in sector-wide. At the same time, you indicated that you would focus that saving on your policy. The organisations that are sufficiently close to your policy should save less. As part of the reform of the ANGS, you have carried out an evaluation in civil society to determine which organisations are fit for purpose. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Firstly, what criteria have you used to determine whether an organisation is fit for purpose? If organisations are not affected by the control, will they be excluded from the subsidy round? Secondly, what criteria have you used to determine funding? Are you achieving the 8.6 % saving target you set? Thirdly, to what extent do the assessments of the ANGS in 2016 have an impact on the funding of the programmes submitted by them? Fourthly, will organisations that are closer to the policies you have outlined have to save less? Fifthly, will you stick to 15 February as the latest date on which programme funding is to be announced? In addition to this 8.6 % savings, a further EUR 30 million has been advanced in the context of caution in the budget. This additional saving may have an impact on the programmes of NGOs already submitted in September. Hence the following questions. Have you been able to determine, in consultation with the sector, which programmes will be deleted? Is the necessary flexibility built in in accordance with the objectives of the CSFs in which those programmes are set up? Will the evaluation and monitoring of the CSFs take into account the impact of the disappearance of some of those programmes? In what way have you taken into account the impact on the impact of the disappearance of programmes? The NGOs say that in the framework agreement they agreed that they would be given 10% of free space for the realization of their programmes. Some of their programmes in that free space are now falling away. What arguments do you have for the disappearance of the programmes in Ghana and Malawi?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic591x.u38	Mr President, my question is in line with Mr Bellens's question. Tomorrow, on the basis of the Royal Decree of 11 September 2015, it will be necessary to decide on the financing of the programmes to be implemented. Many NGOs already have an insight into what they will get for the next five years. This also fits in with the 8.5% savings round for the whole sector. Those savings will, according to your communication, be targeted. This should be understood as primarily aimed at organisations that do not adequately fit your priorities policy or vision. In this respect, evaluations were carried out in civil society last year to determine whether the organisations concerned are fit for purpose. My questions are as follows. Firstly, as regards the assessment of multiannual programmes, what criteria were used in the evaluation of these programmes? Is the NGOs' right of initiative respected? There is, above all, some concern about the middle income countries, as Mr Bellens has already pointed out. NGOs may operate 10% at sector level outside the 33 common strategic frameworks. Have you respected this? Why, then, not the programmes for Malawi, Ghana, China and Tunisia, which show that they will no longer be financed? That's a bit against the agreements made. What are the reasons for this? Secondly, the budget. You have made an agreement with the sector about that 8.5 % over the next five years. How will this happen in concrete terms? As far as underutilisation is concerned, you will be underutilising EUR 17 million this year. It has already been mentioned that this is at the top of the 8.5 % of the agreement concluded. How will you guarantee that this will not be the case in the coming years?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic591x.u39	The criteria for assessing the management capacity of the organisations that have applied for recognition are laid down in Article 2 of the Royal Decree of 11 September 2016. These include financial management, strategic management, process management, result-oriented management, partnership management, taking into account gender and environmental cross-cutting issues, risk management, staff management and transparency, combined with the level of complexity of the organisation. The level of complexity is defined as the size of the organisation, the geographical and thematic distribution, the diversity of the partners, the distribution of the clients and the number of employees. 105 organisations have submitted to the review of their management capacity, 85 of which succeeded: 74 NGOs, 9 institutional actors and 2 federations. 20 organisations failed. Since these organisations have no longer been recognised, they have not been able to apply for a new grant for the 2017-2021 programmes. I have deliberately chosen not to disclose the identity of these organisations. I want to spare them the reputational damage of public disclosure of the results, which could have a negative impact on their fundraising. I think it is perfectly normal that organisations that receive more than EUR 200 million of public funding each year should be evaluated from time to time on their management capacity. In fact, I find the result really encouraging: 81 percent of the organisations tested appear to have sufficient management capacity to implement their programmes. All the organisations that were successful in the review have received recognition, which makes them eligible for funding. All these organisations submitted a programme proposal for the period 2017-2021 in September 2016. All these proposals, 416 in total, were analysed and assessed by my administration. In that assessment, the quality of the file was taken into account in the first place. No distinction was made between the implementation of a programme in a middle income country or in a least developed country. The right of initiative of the organisations was thus respected. The administration used the criteria laid down by the Law of 19 March 2013 and by the Royal Decree of 11 September 2016, namely relevance, effectiveness, efficiency, sustainability, partnership, synergies and learned lessons. Subsequently, account was taken of the extent to which the organisation takes account of my policy priorities. It was also examined whether the subsidy budgets requested were not excessively higher than the subsidies received in the period 2014-2016. Not more than 10% of all programmes may be deployed outside the common strategic frameworks. The organisations have respected this percentage in their programme proposals. Indeed, a saving of 8.5 % was communicated in 2015. However, the organisations have submitted programme proposals asking for 26% more resources than the budget allowed. It is the first time that there is such a difference between the total demand for subsidies and the available budget. There must therefore be a serious exercise to bring demand within the budgetary framework. The administration has done so on the basis of the assessment of the quality of the proposals: the higher the quality, the more complete the funding. In addition, new agreements were made within the government on underutilisation and budgetary caution. I have therefore met the representatives of the actors of non-governmental cooperation twice. At the end of these talks, I reached an agreement with them on an additional linear saving of EUR 17 million for the 2017 appropriations. The board of directors confirmed that agreement. On 3 February 2017, all 85 organisations were informed individually about the subsidy amount granted to them. Organisations are currently considering how to distribute the savings in their programme between countries and the budget headings. On 6 and 7 February, the administration sent a budget table to all organisations in which the necessary savings are applied linearly. The organisations had to notify their agreement by 9 February. If so, the administration can immediately prepare and submit the Ministerial Decision to the Finance Inspectorate and the date of 15 February will be respected. For those organisations wishing to propose a different budget allocation, the final date will depend on when they pass on their final budget allocation to the administration. In assessing the quality of the programme proposals submitted, the evaluations carried out in 2016 were indeed taken into account. Organisations that take into account the recommendations of the evaluations in a new programme and also demonstrate this in their new programme have received a higher quality score and therefore higher funding. The level of grants was determined on the basis of quality scores of the dossier, which count for up to 100 points as well as on the basis of the score in synergy with my policy priorities, which count for up to 20 points. Organisations that are closer to my policy priorities in a programme, such as sustainable and inclusive growth, rights approach including women's and children's rights, peace and security, migration and climate change, will therefore receive a higher subsidy. Nevertheless, the weight of these policy priorities is limited to 20 points compared to 100 points for the quality of the dossier. I believe that in this way we have kept a good balance between the political priorities, on the one hand, and the autonomy of the organisations, on the other. The programmes for Malawi and Ghana were deleted, otherwise it would lead to excessive fragmentation. The deployment of development cooperation in Malawi and Ghana would have been less than 0,1% of the total resources of non-governmental cooperation, without any opportunity for synergy or complementarity. From the point of view of good governance, these interventions cannot be supported by grants from the Belgian development budgets. Of course, the organisations concerned can carry out these interventions by non-governmental means. The programmes in China and Tunisia were deleted because the quality of those programmes was too low. Finally, I understand that the savings are unpleasant for those involved in non-governmental cooperation. However, it did not seem fair to me to exempt them from the budget cut, as this would mean even more intervention in the budgets of all the other actors.In the end, the actors of non-governmental cooperation have shown solidarity with the other actors, which I welcome. That is why I am pleased that we have been able to find a modus vivendi with the actors of non-governmental cooperation, in order to make an additional effort of EUR 17 million in liquidation credits in 2017. If I have to make another budgetary effort of the same magnitude as this year in 2018, a similar effort by the actors of non-governmental cooperation will be inevitable. If I have to make a small effort next year, non-governmental cooperation will be the first beneficiary of the margins. If I had carried out the budget reduction linearly, it would have meant saving EUR 28 million. In the end, it was a reduction of EUR 17 million. Non-governmental actors are free to decide on which part of their programme they provide the additional savings. However, the components that were scored too low in terms of quality cannot be fished. The common strategic frameworks have been adopted for five years. The assessment process, which has now been introduced, will undoubtedly have an impact on the next CSFs. We now have four years to learn lessons from the process that has been conducted and to propose improvements. Finally, I would like to give some figures, in order to clarify the order of magnitude of the debate. BTC will receive €150 million for the operational budget this year. Voluntary contributions to multilateral partner organisations amount to EUR 94 million this year. The contribution to the World Bank's International Development Association is EUR 42 million this year. The contribution to the European Development Fund is EUR 128 million this year. The grants for non-governmental cooperation players this year amount to EUR 215 million. So it is still an important budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic591x.u40	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I think you were rightly proud of your window agreement with the ANGSS in the summer. The NGOs have agreed to the savings and have gone along with the story. I believe that this is important for the ongoing reforms. The additional savings of EUR 17 million, which they also support, are not insignificant. I think it is very important for your policy to have sufficient support for civil society. I hear you say that this will depend on whether or not you will have to save again in 2018. If you then have to go through the NGOs again, it is important that you keep the dialogue constructive and can continue to count on good cooperation with NGOs.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic591x.u41	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The NGOs were a little surprised at the additional savings at the beginning of this year, just like everyone else, because this had already been agreed in the framework agreement. I am particularly concerned about the situation this year, as next year, on the basis of this year's underutilisation, it will be examined whether or not further savings will be made. We can already say that some budgets will not be used in certain countries. Would it not be a good idea to proactively allocate some of the budgets for fragile countries such as Burundi and Congo to NGOs that work more easily in fragile countries rather than in the bilateral sector? In this way, there will be less underutilisation and these organisations will not suffer from the fact that budgets are not spent in certain fragile countries. The choice for fragile countries was a very courageous decision, but that does mean that we are making an overall underutilisation of EUR 120 million. We must have a strategy at our disposal to spend our budget. For fragile countries there is always a risk. The risk assessment should actually be done earlier, so that certain budgets are effectively spent on development cooperation, including this year, and other sectors, such as NGOs, will not be subject to any savings if a thunderbolt in the clear sky is imposed as it was this time. We must develop a strategy from development cooperation to prevent this. You have developed a new vision for development cooperation. It is important that the NGOs are also informed. This has already become clearer, but I have noticed in the discussion of the policy paper that priorities have been deepened or added and that they have also been imposed on NGOs in the assessment. It is then difficult for them to pursue a proactive policy. If you reduce appropriations in the context of action plans, the NGOs must also know what you attach importance to. They need to understand this sufficiently well in advance. I have noted that the quality of the programmes for the middle-income countries was not sufficient. That was an assessment of your administration and we cannot argue with that. The NGOs will then have to do so themselves for their own programmes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic591x.u42	Mr Laaouej may come by later. If that is not possible, he has asked for his question. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic591x.u43	Mr President, Minister, we can say a lot about President Trump, but also much better not to say. In the meantime, he has been elected for several weeks and we must judge him by his achievements, his ideas and the tasks he effectively gives in the United States. Almost immediately after the women's events in the United States and even in the rest of the world, he unfortunately revived the Global Gag Rule. We have known this rule for a long time, both Reagan and Bush have introduced it, but fortunately the democrats have undone it every time. In the meantime, we all know the content of the Global Gag Rule, namely that NGOs active in health care and the like must ensure that they do not provide information on abortion, otherwise they risk losing their subsidies. The problem is, of course, that such an NGO is also looking at the basic health care of many women. If these funds suddenly disappear, it is the women who are the most vulnerable who will be hit hardest. Stop giving advice on contraception and possibly stop abortion, increase the number of pregnancies and push these women towards clandestine abortions, which are often carried out insecurely, which could cost more women their lives. After that, good news came soon. Following this decision, your Dutch colleague Mrs Ploumen announced that she would take initiatives to deal with the possible loss of funding by the United States, one of the largest donors, including in the field of basic health care and sexual and reproductive health. As a result, you proposed a new crowdfunding platform called She Decides. I have a few questions for you, Minister. What is the government's official position on this decision by President Trump? What impact, in concrete figures, does the decision have? Will the She Decides platform be able to cope with the damage sufficiently? How much do you estimate the financial leverage of She Decides? What is the mandate of this crowdfunding platform? Is this merely to raise funding or is it also going to develop a policy? How will the funds collected be used? By adding to existing governmental resources or by any other means? If it will happen in a different way, can you specify it? We have noticed that the platform She Decides uses a Dutch account number. Is there going to be a similar platform with an account in our country? What are the reasons for that? How does this initiative fit in with your earlier February 2016 initiative on companies and SDGs? What contribution will our country make to this crowdfunding platform for the time being? Is it mainly financial or velvet logistics in nature? Can you give me more details on the conference you're planning in two weeks? Finally, will you take other initiatives, possibly together with the Netherlands, in addition to the initiatives already announced and the conference on sexual and reproductive health?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic591x.u44	Mr President, Minister, the election of the new US President, Mr Trump, already has serious consequences for the defence of sexual and reproductive rights in the world, given his extremely conservative approach to this issue and the restoration by his administration of Mexico City policy or "the rule of the world gag". Organizations working in the field of sexual and reproductive health in the broad sense cannot perform abortions even when abortion is legal in their own country. In addition, they cannot in any way provide information on abortion, nor can they direct women to an appropriate service of assistance. Nor can they interfere in the public debate, which calls for women's freedom of choice in the event of unplanned pregnancy. For my group and myself, the author of several texts and amendments on this subject, this is obviously unacceptable. I am pleased to learn that, on behalf of Belgium, you have pledged EUR 10 million to the global fund-raising initiative called "She decides", which is taking action to promote the rights of girls and women, in particular their health and sexual and reproductive rights. Minister, when will these EUR 10 million be released for this She decides initiative? Where will these funds come from? How do our country and its European partners intend to defend the importance of sexual and reproductive rights in the face of the ever more conservative positions of this new US administration? What will you focus on, in this difficult context, in future programmes and projects?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic591x.u45	The Government regrets the White House's decision to remove the funding of aid organisations that inform women in developing countries about family planning, contraception and safe abortion. The organisations active in the field will lose a significant contribution. The United States' contribution to reproductive rights and health is estimated at around $530 million annually. The United States is a sovereign country and although I regret that decision, of course the United States has the right to make that decision. Since human rights, women's rights and sexual and reproductive rights and health are priorities for Belgian development cooperation, I support the She Decides initiative launched by the Netherlands. It is our ambition to gather as many contributions as possible so that organisations can continue their work on the ground. We could have stood on the barricade and shouted that it was a disgrace, but we are using another method, in particular by poaching the sleeves and ensuring that the impact on the ground is as small as possible. It is still too early to assess the financial capacity of the She Decides platform and whether the impact of the new US President's decision will be fully absorbed. At present, three countries have committed a concrete amount: Belgium, the Netherlands and Denmark have committed EUR 10 million each. In addition, the Netherlands has launched a crowdfunding platform focused on the collection of financial resources. It is not expected that a political policy will be developed from that platform. Moreover, it is not intended to create a separate platform for Belgium. A single account number makes it easier to centralise revenues. The division of tasks with my Dutch colleague Ploumen is clear. The Netherlands organises the crowdfunding, we organize the international conference on 2 March. Each country will decide individually how the committed amounts will be deployed. From Belgium we will use and complement the existing channels as much as possible. It is therefore not intended to create parallel systems, so that part of the promised EUR 10 million takes the form of an increased contribution to UNFPA. I have not yet decided on the precise distribution of the EUR 10 million. The SDG charter generally involves the private sector in the SDGs. Sexual and reproductive rights and health are integrated into the SDGs. In this context, therefore, She Decides is also aimed at private companies, in particular those producing contraceptives. I hope that some of these companies will be present at the conference on 2 March. We will then continue our action at international level to promote sexual and reproductive rights and health, especially in the United Nations and European Union fora. Furthermore, we are continuing our strategic partnerships, in particular with UNFPA, UN-Women, WHO, and UNAIDS, to promote sexual and reproductive rights and health in the field. We continue to provide financial support for programmes in the field, especially in the partner countries. It is crucial that women and girls have the right to choose and have access to sexual and reproductive health services. For these reasons, She Decides is so important. The conference on March 2 will take place at the Palais d'Egmont. It will be chaired by Belgium and co-organized by the Netherlands, Sweden and Denmark. Other countries such as Luxembourg, Finland, Canada and Cape Verde have already joined the initiative. The conference will bring together ministers, parliamentarians, international and non-governmental organizations and the private sector. Every woman must have the opportunity to decide herself whether she wants to have children, when and how many. For girls in particular, it is important to go to school, complete their studies and acquire the necessary knowledge and skills to take care of themselves. At the international conference in Brussels, we will join forces and support all initiatives on the ground to make health and sexual and reproductive rights a reality for millions of women.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic591x.u46	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. As a doctor, I can only say that in addition to making a diagnosis, the problem must also be solved. For N-VA, sexual reproductive health is very important. If the United States disappears as a donor, the rest of the world has to fill that void, will nillens. So we certainly support the initiative you have taken together with the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic591x.u47	Minister, thank you for your answer. I repeat: congratulations on this initiative!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic591x.u48	Mr. Pehlivan is ill.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic591x.u49	Mr President, Minister, Operation Protective Edge is Israel's code name for the 51-day military operation in Gaza from 8 July to 26 August 2014. This conflict, which contrasted Israel with armed Palestinian groups, caused desolation and immense human suffering, the traces of which are still visible today. According to United Nations figures, 2,220 Palestinians have died, including 1,492 civilians, 551 of whom are children. The conflict also caused some 110,000 injuries, 70 per cent of which were civilians. On the Israeli side, 66 soldiers and 6 civilians were killed, and more than 2,000 people were injured. However, the money pledged by international donors at the Cairo Conference in autumn 2014 is only too slow. The Israelis allowed the entry of construction materials through the Erez post. But people often do not have the means to buy the necessary to rebuild their destroyed homes. In addition, this is done in an extremely limited manner. So far, very few of the construction materials required for the reconstruction of Gaza have entered through the Gaza Reconstruction Mechanism. At this rate, it will take more than a century to rebuild Gaza. Mr Minister, I would therefore like to ask you about this point. What actions are currently being taken by Belgium to try to facilitate and, above all, to make the reconstruction of Gaza effective? In this context, do you not find it somewhat ironic to make digitization and the Block by Block project a priority when the materials needed to rebuild Gaza cannot yet enter the territory?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic591x.u50	Mrs Grovonius, Belgium is contributing to the reconstruction of Gaza using several financing instruments. With regard to government cooperation, Belgium supports the reconstruction of Gaza through the rehabilitation of schools with a contribution of EUR 12 million to the Joint Financing Arrangement for all education sectors in the Palestinian territory. Through these funds, donors have invested $4 million in the rehabilitation of 109 schools in Gaza. With regard to humanitarian aid through UNRWA Gaza Reconstruction, Belgium contributed €2.070 million in 2015 to the reconstruction of homes damaged during the summer 2014 hostilities and provided rent subsidies for the poorest. This fund was increased by €2 million in 2016-17. Belgium has also financed kits to isolate homes as winter approaches, through the flexible humanitarian fund managed by OCHA, amounting to €5 million for the years 2016-2017. In addition, Belgium supports the right to education for Palestinian refugee children through UNRWA Education in Emergencies (€2 million for 2016-2017); the relaunch of the fisheries sector and the free movement of goods and people through Oxfam for €1.2 million in 2016; the improvement of access to health care through Caritas for €1 million in 2016; the operation of the local OCHA office for €1 million in 2016-2017; and finally, food assistance through WFP for €1 million in 2016-2017. The Block by block platform is part of the project Utilizing digital tools to promote human rights and create inclusive public spaces in the Gaza strip, funded by Belgium and implemented by UN Habitat. The main focus of the project is on improving the participation of young girls and boys in reconstruction efforts in Gaza. It is crucial to involve young people in this challenge. The project includes a series of activities that can be implemented within the constraints of the current context: awareness-raising and training of young people on civic participation; training of women architects on human rights; prevention of gender-based violence; mapping of existing and destroyed public spaces; involvement of young people in the design of public spaces; use of digital applications; and reporting of cases of violence against women. The construction of public spaces is considered feasible in the current context and corresponds to the priority of strengthening the protection of women and social cohesion. Please note that the Belgian D4D (Digitisation pour le développement) policy does not consider digital as an objective in itself but as a transversal vector for achieving better results for more people in need.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic591x.u51	Minister, thank you for your answers. You have not given much information on how concrete improvements can be made in the reconstruction of Gaza and how the necessary materials can actually be achieved. Perhaps it is because you do not want to talk too much about this element which could have put our country in an uncomfortable diplomatic situation after Mr Michel's visit to the country.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic591x.u52	Mr President, Minister, as part of the closing of the Social Protection campaign, I have been asked about your commitments in this area, which seem to be very weak. Indeed, it would seem that you have neither accepted the demands made by the campaign nor mentioned any concrete commitment to the Belgian development cooperation policy in the field of social protection. At the very least, I believe that this attentist position is inconsistent with the resolution, adopted by the majority and adopted by our Assembly in May 2016, aimed at integrating and anchoring the right to social protection in Belgian development cooperation policy. And this, even as you said during your meeting with the representatives of the Social Protection campaign: "Social protection is a universal right. If people are to take control of their lives, they need social protection. I want to see how we can make this a reality in the partner countries of Belgium." Minister, what concrete commitments do you intend to make in this regard? Through which specific strategies do you think "to make social protection a reality in partner countries"? How do you explain why you did not agree with the demands of the "Social Protection" campaign carried out by the two Belgian cupolas, the CNCD-11.11.11 and 11.11.11?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic591x.u53	Mrs Grovonius, first of all, I would like to recall the importance I attach to social protection for its contribution to inclusive growth and its amortization capacity in the face of socio-economic shocks. Let me remind you that I also co-chaired with the World Bank and the International Labour Organization, in September in New York, the launch of the global partnership for universal social protection. In consultation with the partner countries, Belgian Cooperation is already financing aspects of social protection through numerous projects in the field of health. In doing so, we pay particular attention to the financing and financial accessibility of health care. We support strategies for universal health care coverage for all, for example, in Senegal. In addition, I supported the excellent "Social Protection" campaign led by the CNCD-11.11.11. Following Parliament's resolution of 4 May 2014, my administration held several meetings with civil society organisations to draft a paper position to better integrate social protection into development cooperation and to strengthen collaboration between the various actors. On January 24, I met with the campaign leaders at my office when they came to present the results of the campaign. In fact, I supported the campaign well because I met them in my commune in Brakel. Like everyone else, I was asked to sign the document, which I did.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic591x.u54	Minister, thank you for these very succinct answers given the breadth of the questions you were asked. I note that, in your view, you have supported this campaign and that, therefore, the inquiries I have received from the sector are, no doubt, false. It is still very strange that people in the sector come back to me and tell me that there has been no support from you and that you have a totally opposite speech. Look for the mistake, as the other one would say!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic591x.u55	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Thoron's 16529 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic591x.u56	Minister, cross-border adoptions have been rather difficult in recent years. The example of this is the Ugandan issue a few months ago. The competence for this is of course at Flemish level, but the adoption agencies are actually few in number and largely undermanned with just a handful of people each time. The agencies are mainly concerned with a lack of information and expertise on the local legal situation in each individual country. That is why I am asking you the following questions, Minister. How often do our diplomatic posts get consulted on cross-country adoption files every year? Does this occur more often in countries that are also our partners in development cooperation? Is this also the case for development cooperation advisers because of their specific knowledge of partner countries and contacts with local NGOs? Is your department aware of any difficulties or delays in cross-country adoptions in our partner countries in the period 2014-2016? Do you personally see any added value in linking progress in adoption files to development cooperation in our partner countries? Have there been any cases where development cooperation could provide added value in the handling of the dossiers? Finally, do you see the possibility of better or more information exchange between development cooperation services and adoption agencies in order to improve case-per-case information and expertise on the current situation and legal frameworks for adoptions in our partner countries?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic591x.u57	Mrs Capoen, the Directorate-General for Development and Humanitarian Aid has no information on how often our diplomatic posts are consulted on international adoptions. I therefore refer to the Minister for Foreign Affairs to answer this question. The question is in the consular services to our compatriots because of the embassies and it is also within the competence of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The Directorate-General for Development and Humanitarian Aid does not have specific information on the problems mentioned. The entry into force of the amended Ugandan legislation on adoptions on 2 June 2016, which severely restricted the possibilities for adoption by foreign adoptive parents, has put a dozen Belgian families in a very precarious situation, which was strongly echoed by Belgian public opinion. Of course, I fully understand the very difficult situation in which these families find themselves. My colleague, the Foreign Minister, had a meeting with the Ugandan President on the margins of the United Nations Ministerial Week in New York in September 2016. This was the beginning of a solution for the last four blocked families who were able to leave Uganda. My department is constantly striving for more policy coherence and an integrated approach. However, I do not think it is appropriate to mix individual cases of adoption with general development cooperation policies at a different level. As far as I know, there have been no cases where development cooperation could provide added value in the handling of files on adoption. As a policy area, development cooperation is integrated into the functioning of Belgian diplomatic posts. The exchange of information with adoption agencies should therefore take place at the level of diplomatic posts.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic591x.u58	Mr President, I simply wish to thank the Minister for his answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic591x.u59	Mr President, Minister, you have said on several occasions, even today, that output in your policy is more important than input. Let us be clear, our group fully agrees. On the other hand, we should not forget that impact is difficult to measure. This is closely linked to qualitative aspects and these are very difficult to translate into figures. Reportedly, you would have started a pilot project on impact assessment, a collaboration between the DGD, the DBE and the ANGS federations, with the aim of developing a useful methodology. Is it true that this initiative was launched? Who's in on it? What methodologies exist at the moment? Which of these methodologies, according to the organisations concerned, are compatible with the way in which we conduct our international cooperation? Do you have any idea when the pilot project would be completed? Do you possibly have a timeline or planning when you expect the results of the project?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic591x.u60	Mr President, an initiative has indeed been taken to integrate the impact assessment into the new programmes of non-governmental actors in cooperation with their federations. This is a two-stage contract, with the first phase being a public contract to create an adapted methodology for each of these participants. It is only after the completion of the first task that a second task will be written for the implementation of the evaluation, in which the final selection will be made. The two assignments are separate to avoid conflict of interest. There are both qualitative, quantitative and mixed methods for impact assessments. It is impossible at this time to determine which method is the best, as it depends on a case-by-case basis. Therefore, it has been chosen to attract experts in an initial phase, who will make an evaluation design tailored to each specific objective. It is therefore not the case that only quantitative methods will be used. The starting point is that the information must be as robust and credible as possible. In certain cases this may mean that a control group will be employed, in other cases this will be impossible due to the nature of the activities. It is also important to note that it has also been chosen to prevent traditionally difficult intervention areas. Sensitisation and capacity enhancement are two examples where it is difficult to assess the impact. By focusing specifically on and attracting specific expertise, we want to gain a clear insight into the impact of this type of interventions. The impact assessments of the Special Evaluation Service have shown that the impact assessments should be planned at the start of the interventions. If not, the impact indicators are not included in the baseline measurement and the data need to be artificially recreated in order to measure their impact. Therefore, it was chosen to provide impact assessments at the start of the programmes of the seven organisations, to ensure that there are good impact indicators and that they are measured at the outset. This also means that the impact will only be clear once the interventions are finished. Practically this means that we will have the final results in 2021. However, an interim measurement is foreseen, which can be taken into account for steering by the actors concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic591x.u61	Minister, the pilot project is important and it is an important step in the search for useful methodologies to make high-quality and, above all, useful evaluations. I fully agree with you. In 2016 there was a conference on impact assessments in Germany. Here, too, the good example of the Germans, who from day one involved the impact assessment in their programme start-up, making the objectives of the programmes much more realistic and therefore, of course, can also have an impact. When the stated goal from day one is not realistic, it becomes very difficult to achieve an impact. So I look forward to the results of the pilot project, which I think is very interesting.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic591x.u62	Minister, one of the main elements of the framework agreement was administrative simplification. Both ANGS and DGD could achieve efficiency gains with a simpler system. The funds released can then be spent elsewhere and hopefully better. Reportedly, one of the slopes would be the graft of the annual reporting by the ANGSS on the IATl system. This then suddenly joins a system that is already being used by a number of international partners. A disadvantage of IATI is that it places emphasis on the figures. We have just said that figures do not say everything. What are the advantages of the system? How can we make use of it and still provide sufficient quality reporting? Is the system also intended to be used to report on the activities of the governmental actors? If so, what are the results? How can they be applied to the ANGSS?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic591x.u63	IATI is an initiative aimed at promoting the transparency of organisations spending money on development cooperation: donors, executive agencies and NGOs. The associated reporting should lead to publicly available information from who is present, how much money is spent, what is funded and what results have been achieved. Countries or individual organisations may decide to report according to the IATI standard. IATI has de facto become the standard for the publication of development intervention data. This information is of primary importance for policy makers in developing countries themselves who will thus be given a better overview of what is happening in their country. That has not always been the case so far. In addition, the information is still available to the public in Belgium, to Members of Parliament, researchers, journalists and so on. In this way, IATI promotes full transparency about what is happening with public funds. I have indeed decided that all Belgian actors in development cooperation who receive funding from my budget must report according to the IATI standard. The use of the IATI standard offers a great opportunity for administrative simplification. The administration bases its information requirements on external standards and no longer on specific formats that apply only to it. For example, all actors can use the same information in multiple contexts and for multiple applications and not just for DGD. The IATI standard is a reporting standard based primarily on quantifiable data. However, it is always possible to add fields in the default, such as progress reports, photo evaluations or evaluations. The IATI format therefore does not prevent qualitative reporting. All actors in Belgian development cooperation are obliged to do IATI reporting, including BTC. BTC has already registered as a reporting organisation at IATI and has completed a first report. That happened, very recently, to get familiar with the system. It is too early to learn lessons for non-governmental actors. With BIO, the discussions on IATI reporting are ongoing because BIO has a specific specificity, which makes not all fields in the IATI standard equally easy to apply. It concerns, for example, the interest rates for loans, which BIO cannot simply make public. An initial limited reporting by BIO is currently being agreed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic591x.u64	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The IATI standard is indeed a system of easy accountability, not unimportant to maintain and even increase the level of support for international cooperation, as I said earlier. I hear that there are also opportunities to report more quality, which I think is only positive.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic591x.u65	Minister, in 2016 you recruited Deloitte to screen the ANGSS in the context of their recognition. It is reported that the DBE has now also started a similar task, according to some NGOs. In fact, they fear duplication and the increase in the burden of planning. What is the difference between Deloitte's screening and the particular evaluator's assignment? Can elements known to Deloitte possibly be taken over by the DBE using the only-once principle? In addition to the screening of the ANGSs, was a screening of the BTC, the BIO and the DGD carried out? Which actors will monitor the DBE: the ANGS and also the governmental actors? When do you expect the results of the DBE?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic591x.u66	Mrs Bellens, certification by the Special Evaluation Service differs from the screening by Deloitte in that certification is not part of a recognition logic, which gives or does not give access to grants. The certification will only apply to the evaluation systems of the actors. Certification is considered by the Special Evaluation Service to be a continuous improvement tool and not a one-shot application. The objective is to involve actors in a long-term improvement process of evaluation systems. In 2017, a pilot phase will be launched for the development of certification systems in close involvement with the actors themselves. The pilot phase will consider to what extent the information made available for screening can also be used in the context of certification. I would like to avoid, as much as possible, that the actors themselves have to collect the information again, in accordance with the only-once principle. Since the logic and philosophy of the two exercises are not the same, it is possible that additional information will be requested from 2018. For BTC and BIO a method other than screening is used. Those organisations should be able to demonstrate that they are fit and clean under the management contract. This will not happen in the same way as the screening of non-governmental cooperation, because BTC and BIO are public entities. The Special Evaluator Service will examine four categories of actors in the context of its mission: the organisation of civil society, institutional actors, BTC and BIO. The pilot phase for the development and testing of the certification system will be completed in November 2017. The certification itself will take place from 2018, but during the pilot phase in 2017 it remains to be determined how the certification will be planned. It is not certain that all actors will be certified immediately in 2018. A phased approach over a longer period is therefore possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic591x.u67	Thank you for your answers, Minister. The concern of NGOs is that they have already been extensively questioned and that they should now do everything again. I hear you say that any additional questions will be asked or that the information will be updated. This will be reassuring for the sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic591x.u68	Minister, I would like to ask you about Belgium's participation in the international coalition in the fight against the Islamic State. President Assad recently spoke about Belgium's participation in the coalition. The Prime Minister and your colleague in charge of foreign affairs have rightly rejected all charges. I would like to take this opportunity to take stock with you of Belgium's involvement in this struggle. Can you take stock of Belgium's involvement in this fight against the Islamic State? In addition to military intervention, does Belgium intend to adopt a comprehensive strategy for Syria? Many children suffer from malnutrition, access to water is not optimal, many children are no longer in school since the conflict and are even recruited into the army from an early age. What does Belgium intend to do to stop this scourge? Is this news? Do you have any discussions with your Foreign Affairs and Defence colleagues so that Belgium can put in place a comprehensive strategy in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic591x.u69	My colleague, Belgium has developed a comprehensive approach to combating terrorism and preventing violent extremism in order to fulfil its responsibilities within and outside its borders. Belgium has been a committed member of the global coalition against Daesh since the beginning. Belgium actively participates in the five working groups created around the coalition's axes of action: military, counter messaging, counter financing, counter finance and stabilization. You may note that only one of these groups makes military support, as the work of the coalition is much broader than that. We advocate a 3D approach that integrates diplomacy, development and defence in an integrated manner. Belgium is convinced that a purely military response to the crisis in Iraq and Syria will not stabilize the region in the long term. Belgium therefore supports all political and diplomatic initiatives aimed at resolving the crisis, in particular those of the UN, the international support group for Syria and the European Union. They aim to find lasting political solutions to the conflict in Syria and to improve the living conditions of civilians in Syria and Iraq. Belgium supports Iraq, Syria and neighbouring countries to deal with the consequences of the crisis caused by Daesh and to alleviate the plight of those suffering from it. While respecting the principles of impartiality and neutrality of humanitarian aid, Belgium has increased the humanitarian aid it provides to the region. In 2015, €50 million was allocated to various programmes and an additional €75 million was committed for the period 2016-2017. Belgium also wants to contribute to the stabilization and reconstruction of the areas previously occupied by Daesh and now liberated. To facilitate the return of internally displaced persons and refugees, €3.1 million has been provided to the "UNDP immediate stabilization funding facility". Priority is given to restoring basic infrastructure and supporting local employment projects. A mine clearance project with Handicap International in the amount of €500,000 is under way. Our country believes that the stabilization and return of security in the liberated territories are crucial for lasting success.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic591x.u70	We don't need to ask any more questions. I would like to thank the Minister and my fellow Members for their cooperation this afternoon.
