ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic563x.u1	We are opening the sitting with the second series of hearings. Welcome to all the people we will hear this afternoon about workable work and the draft law that adapts matters to the 1996 law. I'll go over who we all receive this afternoon. There is Mr Verjans of the ACV; Mrs Ullens will replace Mr De Leeuw of the ABBV; there are Mr Valentin of the ACLVB, then three people from the VBO, Mrs Vanderhoeven and Mrs Coenegrachts and Mr Roosens, of UCM and Unizo Mr Dewèvre and Mr Bortier. Mrs. Deiteren has still been with us since this morning. Mr Botterman of the Farmers' Union has apologized. Mr Denayer is present at the Central Council for Business. Mrs Stevens of the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men is present to give a gender perspective on the matter and in particular on the first draft law. Everyone welcome. After the three statements made by the employees' representatives, the employers' representatives will take the lead. I understand you'll be doing the presentation together. I shall first give the floor to Mr Verjans of the ACV. Everyone has ten minutes before their presentation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic563x.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, first of all we are very grateful to be invited to this hearing and to speak here. You may expect some spectacle in a clash between employers and employees. Maybe that's what hearings are meant for. However, I must honestly say that we have three reasons not to offer this. The first reason is that, the day before yesterday, we made a preliminary draft IPA, in which the ACVs and I hope all the social partners put all their energies into consistently defending IPA's preliminary draft in all serenity. In that sense, spectacle is not really covered. I must say that in such a consultation, which is, of course, also a democratic process, clarity is also an asset. We certainly call on the government to clarify as soon as possible, in fact immediately, whether it fully honours the preliminary agreement between employers and employees. A second reason why you won't see a spectacle is the next one. From the joint opinion in the National Labour Council we explained the negative points. We have set out these points in very detail and also quite critically. I think it has not escaped your notice that, in recent times, the two aspects that we need to explain today are being looked at very critically in the streets, in companies and in the meetings with our constituents. I assume that you have certainly read the information we have presented in the NAR's opinion. A third reason is a reason for being sparing and I mean that we are sparing with energy. After all, we expect that there will be hopeless divisions in Parliament. At the same time, we note that the majority parties may approve the concrete agreement we have mentioned, as it now stands. That is why it seems interesting to us to change our approach somewhat, by putting forward four points from four points of view. The first point concerns the fact that in the opinion of the National Labour Council, as we always do, we have tried to put a few things first in a consensual way. We are grateful and pleased that a number of elements have been achieved. For some topics to be discussed, such as career savings, we still have time until mid-year, until July, to draw up an interprofessional framework with the social partners. We have also been given a little more time, until the autumn, for the formation agreements. On the other hand, we really do not understand why one does not deal with the consensual aspects. I'd like to bring two to your attention. Firstly, a simple thing relates to the employers' group. We have a separate view of this, but in the consensual part we have asked that, as long as there are separate joint committees for workers and servants, the Minister should also indicate the competent joint committee for the workers and the servants. But it doesn't say that. We find that very strange, and we hope that this can be done by parliamentary means. Secondly, employers and employees have jointly regretted that the French model of transfer of leave to a colleague with a seriously ill child or family member would be possible. We are of course in favour of this idea in itself, but the social partners have said together that we fortunately have a number of systems, such as thematic leave and, at worst, palliative leave, but also parental leave. We have even added in the draft IPA that the allowances for care leave would significantly increase for single people with child burden. We are therefore wondering why a further complexity needs to be added. We think it is a good idea in itself, but there are some other cats to be flogged in the context of workable work. As far as workable work is concerned, we hope that, within the framework of the IPA preliminary draft, we will be able to come up with on-speaking terms with employers about the essence of opportunities for people to work longer and to persevere in order to do so in a humane way. The ACV has always worked hard on innovative work organisations and wants to make a real difference with the other partners in the field. That is a first point. A second point concerns the reform of the 1996 law. You know that we are also extremely critical there. It could have been different, but not always much easier, if the government had remained within its declaration of government. The government has violated its own government agreement, which is always put forward as the axiom, on two points, firstly, by suddenly ending its historical wage handicap, while the government agreement expressly states that it would take up its competitiveness and its evolution since 1996. A second one, it's essential, it's a matter of substance. Indeed, the draft does not take into account labour cost subsidies other than structural RSZ reductions. Worse still, the RSZ reductions under the tax shift may not be charged. We are talking about EUR 3.2 billion which is fictitiously increasing labour costs. If we add to that the EUR 493 million target group reductions, which have already been added to wage costs, then we will amount to EUR 3.7 billion. In addition, there are wage subsidies. We have the figures for 2015. Without the target group reductions RSZ and without the 1% wage cost subsidy, which was converted into a patronal RSZ reduction, it amounts to 5.2 billion euros. In addition, there is also EUR 360 million for the new strengthening of the wage subsidy for shift and night work. Overall, it is about EUR 9.2 billion of labour costs that are no longer available or that are otherwise subsidised. That's a serious rewrite, isn't it? However, we would like to enter into the debate on what needs to be done, for example, with non-profit subsidies and service cheque subsidies. This is not so much about competitiveness in the broad sense, but we are still talking about EUR 6.55 billion in artificial wage increases. Undoubtedly, our employers' friends will point out the historical pay gap. They've already dropped from 16.5 to 10 %. I heard Mr Timmermans yesterday say that we are likely to evolve to 8.5%. Even so, this figure, which we dispute in any case, does not even take into account the historical competitiveness of our employees, which is much higher than in many other countries. In this sense, we find it regrettable that the government has violated its own coalition agreement. I would like to make a third point by asking a number of questions. We do not want to answer that directly, but hopefully they will give you some thought. Does the amendment of the 1996 law constitute a fundamental right to free negotiations? Has any consideration been given to the International Labour Organisation and its case law and to the Commission for the application of the standards in which the right to free negotiations was also enshrined in European law? Is that sufficiently researched? Has the Constitution, Articles 23 and 27, passed the test? This House, we know, has an excellent legal service. I do not know whether an analysis has already been made of the recent judgments of the Constitutional Court on the index jump and the previous statutory wage standard. Our reading shows that the conclusion is at least in the direction of doing so once or temporarily. However, this regulation is now more and more in the direction of a permanent intervention in the freedom of negotiation. Isn't it? Still, things to take for sure and think about. Apart from the economic issue, in the context of European economic governance, the Commission and the ECB have already become more concerned about wage dumping in Germany. But how long will it take for Belgium to get its hands on it? After all, the IMF delegation that has visited us, including us, has made it clear that there are no overall problems in terms of wage costs and wage comparison. I read their report, which was a little more diplomatic, but their message was clear. So why do we still have this legislation? We also heard some comments yesterday from employers on how important it is to restore purchasing power and how important consumer confidence is as a driving force for economic recovery. So leave the social partners the freedom to reach agreements which take into account, among other things, competitiveness. One last, fourth, issue that we want to address is a focus on youth wages. In fact, we have been surprised this week to find that an amendment from the government has yet to be tabled to the draft law on manoeuvrable and workable work, accompanied by a very critical opinion in our view from the Council of State, in which we note that the question of age discrimination on the one hand and the standstill principle of Article 23 of the Constitution on the other hand have had a lot of reservations. In fact, that draft law raises again questions about the infringement of the right of collective bargaining. In fact, we would have liked to see the budgetary picture as well. It is said from the government that it has to raise 20 million, but how credible is that if a piece of the cost is actually borne by the government itself? I assume that the majority parties and the government have also calculated that invoice. It would be a good thing if we were to learn about the situation. On the other hand, the question of how this government looks at young people has been raised around youth wages, especially among the young people in our constituency. With us, the young people were actually quite satisfied with the fact that, even at the time when the previous government had declared a wage freeze and therefore no IPA had been reached, we had agreements with the social partners, employers and workers, on flexibility, but also on youth wages. In this context, we had concluded a collective agreement in the National Labour Council with employers and employees, in the conviction that we would abolish youth wages. We did that; the final step was taken on 1 January 2015. The young people were content then. Now the young people suddenly notice that this government does not seem to like them very much because, under the pretext of increasing employment opportunities, the young people would be caught in this way. I'll repeat it. In our constituency, we often get displeasure, especially among young people. According to the young people there is a perspective for a number of young people, there are incentives for a number of young people, but the perspective is in fact anything but positive for the category of young people who have had a bit more difficulty in the labour market, for those who have had a bit more difficulty in the school banks.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic563x.u3	Thank you, Mr Verjans. I now give the floor to Mrs Ulens of the ABVV.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic563x.u4	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Belgian people. It is extremely interesting that you are organising this hearing, about the extremely important draft bill that is being discussed this morning, as well as about the other two draft laws. As regards the view of the ABVV on the 1996 draft law and the 1996 law on employment and competitiveness, we, as a trade union, subscribe to the principle of not derailing the evolution of our wages vis-à-vis neighbouring countries. We believe that the reform of the 1996 law now before us is a serious breach of free collective bargaining. The freedom of negotiation is very important to us. This has been confirmed, as my colleague has said, in many international treaties. This draft law deals with this at the heart of the matter. Proper reform of the 1996 law would respect freedom so that the social partners could manage wage formation responsibly. The introduction of safety margins and corrective mechanisms will reduce the margin to an absolute minimum. After years and years of wage moderation, the workers get a stench of thanks. We are also wondering what reform was needed. The effective wage gap since 1996 is not, of course, a question of the gender pay gap at the end of last year, to the extent that the index jump, which we continue to regard as socially unfair, was not necessary at all. In detail, we also have the following problems with the draft law before us. Firstly, the social partners have always been responsible. A wrong assessment of previous parameters led in the past to the emergence of a limited wage handicap with neighbouring countries. The sectors have always complied with the commitments made. It is therefore regrettable that one of the cornerstones of the reform is now the imposition of the mandatory standard. The sectors will no longer be allowed the freedom to negotiate according to their economic reality. However, more freedom is demanded from the sectors by institutions such as the European Commission and the IMF. Secondly, the spirit of the 1996 law is to look at the evolution of labour costs since 1996. Our country has historically high productivity, thanks to everyone who cooperates in it. It would be argued that our absolute wage costs are higher. We may be a little more expensive, but we're bringing in more. To date, higher labour costs have been fully compensated by higher productivity. There is therefore no competitive disadvantage vis-à-vis neighbouring countries. If, according to the Central Council for Business, productivity is taken into account, our labour costs are only 0.1 % higher. The current draft law makes reference to absolute wage costs, but without taking productivity into account. We believe that this will lead to pure wage dumping. Economically, it makes no sense to bring our wages back to the level of neighbouring countries. Belgium thus enrols in a race to the bottom in the field of working conditions. Thirdly, the state of the wage gap between Belgium and neighbouring countries since 1996 has become crucial in determining the wage margin. This comparison is distorted by the draft law.In 2016 the tax shift made a total of 1 billion in 2016 with nine zeros! In the case of loans granted by the Bank, the Bank will be able to grant loans to the Bank in the form of loans to the Bank in the form of loans The present draft law does not take this into account. Those reductions don't count. This gives a totally false picture of our country's international competitiveness position. Our wage costs are thus overestimated by 0.7%. The draft law states that these 700 million in patronage reductions, as my colleague has already said, should lead to additional competitiveness and jobs in 2017. Why then do we not build in a mechanism, or at least a monitoring, in the law to evaluate employment growth? Why do we keep handing this out for free without any condition? I come to another element that helps determine our competitive position, the wage subsidies. In 2015, in addition to 5.5 billion in patronage reductions for social security, 6.2 billion in wage subsidies were granted to companies. These are wage costs which employers do not have to pass on to the tax authorities or to social security. These wage subsidies have never been taken into account in determining the overall wage costs in Belgium. As Mr Mathieu said in the coalition agreement, the ambition was to do so. So the question to the Minister is why pay subsidies are not taken into account? These amounts are 4,67 % of the wage mass. Finally, a fair law of 1996 would focus not only on wage costs but also provide for equal moderation of other revenues in difficult times. I refer, for example, to driver's fees and dividends. What are our recommendations? Firstly, keep the wage standard indicative, in order to guarantee the freedom of negotiation. Secondly, make a correct assessment that takes into account all contribution reductions and wage subsidies. Thirdly, ensure monitoring of its employment effects. It is important that the part employment of the law when it is activated not only focuses on competitiveness. Fourthly, when comparing absolute wage costs, productivity differences are taken into account. Fifth and finally, ensure a level playing field for other income in difficult times. That is the activation of Article 14. With regard to the law on manoeuvrable and workable work, the general remark of our union is the following. This file is very important. It had to be the counterpart to the soothing of the measure whereby the government, although not in the programme of the parties in power, required the people to work longer. Until now, only measures have been taken to make people work longer, but no measures are in place that effectively allow people to stay longer on the job, so that the work remains manageable up to older age. We note that there are burn-outs, more and more victims of work-related stress and more and more long-term disability. It is important that the draft law is a balance and at least a middle between workable work, the demand of workers, and the manoeuvrable work, the demand of employers. Our general analysis of the draft law is that we know that over the months the dossier has evolved strongly and in some respects even in the right sense. We have a number of points on which we can take a positive view, for example the extension of care leave by three months. However, we are still hungry for something that could compensate for longer and harder work and be more flexible. In addition, we argue that this draft law does not make any serious gender analysis, which is actually expected, especially with regard to the performance of longer periods with extra hours. Finally, social dialogue is being trampled on in a number of areas. We now have this hearing and the existing derogations for sectors and businesses are cancelled without evaluation. There is still a possibility of a deadline until 31 January, but it may well be that this law will be adopted on the same date, so how can it be further developed? In addition, we see that the decline in consultation is brought to the individual level or that the measures are pushed through by a side-way if there is no works council and that the union delegation is excluded. The consultation on the draft law itself and the length of time really could be improved. There was only 30 days for an opinion from the National Labour Council. Together with my two colleagues, on the left and right of me, I can really be proud of that work in the National Labour Council, employees and employers together. We were given an opinion on such an important subject, a subject that really lives on the ground with the workers, only 30 days, that was really far too little. In addition, for some items, the joint committees were also excluded. Finally, we would have liked to have expressed the intention, for certain aspects, of developing alternatives, but we have not had the opportunity to do so. As Mr Verjans said, you can take a look at our recommendations from the National Labour Council. I'm gonna bring up a few of them, who jump out and are very important. As far as training is concerned, it is not possible for this bill to allow informal training. This could mean that a day's education is made up of someone who sits next to his colleague for an entire day. That's a blow to the face of educators. It's not normal for something like that to be considered as formation, is it? Surely there cannot be an exception for small businesses, with fewer than 10 employees? Do they not have the right to education? Formation is very important in 2017, in the 21st century. It cannot be the intention to invoke the existing right to paid educational leave in order to escape this new right to training. The draft law speaks of an individual right of education of an average of two days. If it is an individual right of formation, how can it be on average per VTE? It is also a pity that no framework has been agreed for occasional telework. It is good that we will be able to work out our own arrangements for career savings. We can only endorse Mr Verjans' comment on the employers' group. As far as part-time work is concerned, this measure will affect many women, because there is more uncertainty for lower wages by increasing the multi-hour credit. This is a credit where the employer does not have to pay overtime for extra hours. That's a real thorn in our eye. Part-time work - I would like to repeat this - is often about people in precarious situations. They do not choose to do so voluntarily. By introducing the multi-hour credit in this way, it means a financial drain for them. Contrary to what we sometimes hear from the media, there was no real question of e-commerce in the Joint Committees from the point of view of employees. Another point I would like to raise, like Mr Verjans, is youth wages for young workers. They would be introduced into the text by means of a government amendment. The social partners want to develop alternatives to this. We ask the government and Parliament to give us the opportunity to do so, without any interference. Leave the social dialogue to the social partners. We can do that. It's possible. We come to agreements. I'll come to my decision. The different versions of the proposals have brought to light an improvement, but some measures are still problematic. We cannot get the impression that they are more inspired by the need to make work organisation more flexible for employers than by the need to make work more workable and bearable for the worker. We note that the workers have less and less hold and, in the absence of collective agreements, are increasingly under pressure from their employer. Unfortunately, the balance sought in the draft law on workable and manoeuvrable work is not there for the workers. And we can only regret that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic563x.u5	Good morning, everyone. We are, of course, very pleased to be here today in order to share with you a number of concerns that can actually inform your work. So, thank you for organizing these auditions. I'm bouncing on one of the last elements that was developed by Mrs Ulens. As social partners, we have the capacity to conclude draft agreements, to agree on a number of elements. We do not agree, of course, on everything, but what is important is that in order to be able to do so, we need space. This is what is most difficult in these various draft regulations: it is to have the opportunity to create spaces to be able to find themselves as social partners. I begin with the bill on work that can be done and work that can be done. We have to realize that we have left, on the workers' side, a lot of expectations about the work that can be done. It is clear that workers have wondered how to hold, how to make work feasible with a number of measures. At the outset, this bill on feasible work was seen positively. Then, we gradually moved towards manoeuvrable work and, unfortunately, we find that, in the final result, there are more manageable work questions, i.e. flexibility, than answers to workers' expectations of work that can be done. However, it is important to point out that, in particular, through the interventions that we were able to make, between the draft text as it existed at the starting point in April or even in July 2016, and the final result, a number of elements that were relevant to this possibility of discussing, negotiating, have evolved in the right direction with regard to the final version. For example, when it comes to the annualisation of working time, in the first version of the draft, the question was to move clearly from a negotiated flexibility – it is suggested that in Belgium flexibility is not possible when it is possible but it needs to be negotiated – to a unilateral flexibility. It is still to be found in the adaptations to Article 20a. But based on the principle of annualization or changes in the rules on supersalary, these elements have disappeared. It is also important to stress that, in all these discussions on the introduction of negotiated flexibility, the sector level is clearly the most important. The sectoral level is where the social partners can meet, analyse their needs and develop the solutions they want to have. It is therefore important not to break it with the introduction of this bill and that the sector level continues to have its crucial role. I said that when partners can find themselves, when they have the space and the opportunity to do so, they can do it. For example, in the work that can be done, manoeuvrable work has been seen to be relevant to changes in time credit. A balanced solution has been developed, negotiated at the National Labour Council on these elements in terms of time credit. We also find a number of things in the opinion of the National Labour Council, 30 pages to read because there are really all the nuances that we cannot, of course, summarize in a few moments here, including elements such as the need to give the social partners time to, together, develop something in terms of career savings. Unfortunately, as Mr Verjans pointed out at the beginning, one did not retain something that had been said unanimously, namely this "true false good idea" of the leave donation. If you have the possibility to change it again, do not hesitate to do so. There are still a number of difficult points in this bill on work that can be done and manageable: it is the overtime granted individually. There is a choice between favouritism or pressure on a number of workers. These are also questions about training efforts where all enterprises with fewer than ten workers are excluded from the obligation to do so. We still have a hope that at the sector level we can see that training is an investment and not just a cost. Therefore, through this sector-level approach, we hope to be able to recover a number of things and to have commitments from the sectoral social partners in terms of the training of their workers developed at sectoral level. This is generally the case with the labour law that is feasible and manageable. However, as my colleagues have pointed out, I refer you to the opinion of the National Labour Council, which, with all the nuances, includes both the common positioning and the positioning of trade union organisations. With regard to the draft amendment to the 1996 law, we have always worked, I think it is a common approach for all trade union organisations, on two pillars of wage bargaining: freedom and responsibility. We are aware that, in free wage negotiations, we have a responsibility in relation to what we are asking for, in relation to what we are trying to achieve in terms of negotiations. It is always the combination of these two elements that has meant that until now, until about ten years ago, we have been in systems where we have taken into account our own responsibility as social partners. Where there is space – financial space here – at the sector level, at the enterprise level, there must also be space for wage increases. But out of principle, if I go back to this 1996 bill to strengthen the Act, let me highlight a number of inequities that appear in it. First, there is the difference in treatment between the negative wage gap and the positive wage gap. If, at the end of a two-year period of wage developments, we realize that we have performed better in Belgium or that the countries with which we are compared have had a higher wage increase or that our inflation has been lower, we have a negative wage gap. This negative wage gap cannot be directly applied for the following period while a positive wage gap will automatically be deducted from the next wage standard. So there is clearly an approach that is not logical in the situation. A second element that is important and has been mentioned is the fact that salary subsidies are not taken into account in the calculation of the wage standard. A third element is the product of the tax shift. What the bill does is determine that the revenue from the tax shift can be used for anything but wage increases. This can be used for an increase in dividends, it can be used, in the most positive cases, for job creation, since unfortunately there is no link between reductions in social contributions and job creation, but it can never be used for an increase in wages since it is something that has come out of the calculation of the wage margin. As a general conclusion, as far as the reform of the 1996 law is concerned, competitiveness is not limited to a wage issue. Competitiveness is also innovation, it is also issues related to the cost of energy, in relation to training – it makes the link with work that can be done and work that can be done – and also in relation to public investment. Therefore, it is important to take into account the other elements on employment and competitiveness in the report of the Central Economic Council.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic563x.u6	You can now switch places to allow the representatives of the employers, the VBO, UCM and UNIZO to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic563x.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, on the employers' side too, we are pleased to share with you our ideas and concerns about the law on manoeuvrable work. We thank you for this. Flexibility is an important means for businesses to remain competitive in the current globalised economy and also to maintain and create jobs. This flexibility is not provided by current labour law. That is rightly and precisely analysed in the explanatory memorandum annexed to the law. We were therefore very pleased with the initiatives taken by the Minister for Employment and the Government. They have created great expectations for companies. They have even announced a revolution, I quote the Minister of Work. We were therefore very surprised at the knowledge of the first texts, because there was a very great difference between, on the one hand, the intention expressed by the government in its budget agreement and, on the other hand, the written record of this, which our colleagues in the trade unions also spoke about. In those first texts, companies did not make any progress at all in terms of flexibility, even more the existing systems of flexibility were called into question, because there would suddenly be overwage. Fortunately, the draft has been amended on a number of points, but when we take stock of the final balance of the legislative text, it is mainly the 100 voluntary overtime that bring added value to businesses, because they really meet the needs of the area. e-commerce and the plus-minus conto also open up prospects, but that is, of course, only for a limited number of sectors. The question arises as to whether these possibilities will remain theoretical in view of the severe procedures for introducing blockades, which were already in place and which have been retained. We therefore call for these measures to be evaluated in the very near future in order to see whether they can really find their way into the field and that, if they do not, the procedure could be adjusted. Compared to most other measures, companies are either neutral or negative. There is no revolution for us, which explains all the commotion surrounding the bill. We must also note that many measures have been taken to improve worker flexibility. We are thinking, for example, of sliding working hours, occasional telework, extension of leave, career account and the fact that most of these measures were conceived as an individual right. On the other hand, the measures to allow more tailor-made work to businesses can only be introduced through the well-known cascade procedures, whereby a trade union, against the other trade unions, can block the introduction. We think that's a missed opportunity. I will conclude with one final point. We regret that the draft law makes the current regulation even more complex. For example, we are looking at the labour law, which regulates working hours and overtime. That law is so complex and now a layer is placed on top of it, making it a perfect example of authentic Belgian koterij. We find it particularly regrettable that there has been no simplification exercise. We insist that this should be done in the near future. We shall now look briefly at some specific measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic563x.u8	We chose to give you a short description of the various measures that are in the bill to put things in perspective. I'll start with the annualization. If there is one theme for which the real impact is inversely proportional to the emotion, concussion itself, which this measure has created in recent months, it is this one! Why? Who are we talking about first? In fact, Article 20bis of the 1971 Act has been amended. Article 20a regulates small flexibility. This article has existed since the late 1980s. It gives companies the opportunity to apply different working hours on an alternating basis, depending on the needs of the company. You have a company that has peak periods. During these peak periods, she applies a schedule with a higher number of hours. She has a slightly quieter period and then applies a schedule with fewer hours per week. In the end, over a period of three months or one year, depending on what has been chosen at company level, the average is always the same. What have we changed or what is the change in the bill? The project makes two changes. He says that a small flexibility can be introduced in the company, either through the labour regulations or through a CTC. In the current version of the code, we read: "We introduce by CTC or, failing that, by working regulations". We changed the order of words, but we didn't change anything else. Secondly, it is expected that the reference period will always be a calendar year or twelve months, where you were told before that the reference period was three months or twelve months. That's the flagship measure we heard about... a lot of people went down the street. I can hear what Mr. Valentin is telling us. It was that there was a first project that was much stricter. Unfortunately, I've never seen this project before. You may have had some early days, you had the opportunity to influence the project, I didn't. In the projects as we've had them, there's never been much more than this. Good measure, you still have the limit, the internal credit that has automatically increased to 143 hours. As my colleague has pointed out, there is another measure that we appreciate, that is the quota of voluntary overtime. For the little anecdote, we had the chance at the FEB to store our archives recently and I fell back on files from more than 20 years ago when we were interviewing our companies and asking them "but what do you need as flexibility?" One measure was voluntary overtime. "On the ground" was what was written, "both workers and employers would, in some cases, like to be able to work overtime". Today, when you want your workers to work overtime, you have to justify an extraordinary extra amount of work. You must apply to the trade union delegation for permission. You must inform the social inspectorate and you must again, in advance, post a derogatory work schedule which departs from the schedule provided for in the labour regulations. So, if you need to finish a job quickly at the end of the day, you are blocked because, materially, you do not have the ability to follow the entire procedure. I'm not exaggerating. This is really the procedure as described in the 1971 Act and as it should be followed by companies. What does the project propose? In the project, it is said that all these difficulties are realized and that in some cases more flexibility is needed in the performance of overtime. Workers who volunteer – in the field, there are people who want to earn more and who are willing to spend a little more hours – sign a convention. When necessary, the employer will call on these workers to work overtime. These hours are paid as are the current overtime hours. The only difference is that an employee or worker could request that the overtime compensation be paid into the future time savings account. The third measure I want to explain to you is the simplification of part-time work. The scenario is not as serious as what has been explained. I have made a very small summary of the various obligations an employer must follow when using part-time work. It is normal that there should be some follow-up, some control of the work in this area, especially in the case of variable working hours. The situation has been slightly improved by taking into account the fact that today we no longer necessarily work with paper and that notices can also be communicated electronically. In so doing, what was to be displayed before can be stored electronically. This is a first improvement. This brings me to the second improvement. Today, when one departs from a worker's variable working hours, an ad hoc register must be kept or one must be in possession of an appropriate apparatus, i.e. a pointer to follow derogations from working hours. In the new project, a monitoring of time is planned. These are two different words for the same reality. Indeed, I do not see very well, given the demands – I no longer have the text here unfortunately –, given the follow-up – you must note at what time the worker arrives, at what time the worker starts his break, at what time the worker ends his break, at what time the worker leaves, and all this must be recorded at the time that this happens – what other system that a pointer can fulfill that. I don't know. I haven't found it yet, but maybe in the future some companies will develop the necessary apparatus. Finally, the famous credit of hours. Currently, when you are on a variable schedule, you can allow three additional hours per week. So we have a quota over a quarter. With three hours of thirteen weeks, we have a 39-hour quota. Tomorrow, we'll be able to prepare, no longer three hours a week, but three hours fourteen a week. With the maximum, indeed, it is a good thing, one takes into account the fact that the reference period may be more than three months. Therefore, the maximum is not capped at three hours fourteen times thirteen weeks. It is taken into account that in some cases one can work over a reference period of one year. Therefore, the 39 hours were increased to 168 hours. There's a little improvement. That goes in the right direction, but we're still a little bit about our hunger, especially on the issue that was in the government's agreement, a real simplification of the use of the hour credit. I now give the floor to my colleague, Caroline of UNIZO.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic563x.u9	[[microphone not enabled]] (...) This consists of a number of chapters. We were, in fact, particularly surprised by the fact that at interprofessional level the current objective of spending 1.9 % of the wage mass on education is being converted into a five-day training target per full-time equivalent employee per year. The explanatory memorandum states, inter alia, that this is fiscally neutral and does not entail an increase in labour costs. However, five days of education per full-time equivalent does not correspond to a spending of 1.9 % of the wage mass. If we look at the work of the CRB in the past and the cost of a day's formation is calculated, times five training days, then this results in a percentage of 3.59 % of the wage mass. Thus, companies are interprofessionally subject to an objective which means a serious increase, almost doubling, of the current objective. Training is not unimportant to us; on the contrary, training is very important for the competitiveness of companies. However, because the objective is so unachievable, it does not work motivatingly. This is also said, for example, for those who try to exercise more. The objective must be kept viable so that the sportsman experiences the happiness of achieving the goals. After that, the goals are systematically built up. That has certainly not happened in this case. For us, this means that the risk that each year or every two years will inevitably be identified as being below that objective. A previous census resulted in a spending of 2.4 percent of the wage mass in education, which is top level at European level. In Belgium, however, it will have to be noted that companies that are not achieving the inter-professional objective are supposedly poor pupils, whereas they are not at all. We regret this mechanism, because we want to make it a positive story, which it is no longer going to be. The autonomy of the sectors is also very important to us. We read in the draft law that this autonomy is preserved. Sectors will be able to implement the inter-professional objective in their sector, with not every sector having to fill in five training days immediately. For us it must also be possible to spend more days in one sector and less in the other. It is also not possible to compare all companies and all sectors in the same way. In some innovative sectors it is really necessary to have ten or twenty days of training per year. In other sectors, this is less necessary and one should almost invent things that are less labour market oriented, one had to want to get five days everywhere. As far as the training credit is concerned, we will remain hungry for the time being. We look forward to the draft KBs that will be submitted to the NAR, so that we can learn more about what this system looks like. As far as supplementary duty is concerned, unlike what has just been said, we are pleased that this will not become an individual duty, but that it will be considered at company level. That was also something we had argued for. Why? Because there is a need for tailor-made training in the sectors, but also at the level of the company. It should be possible for one employee to form intensively one year, or several years, and then let him rest a little, while others need other measures. So as far as education is concerned, our concerns. A first focus is on wage costs. By pulling the target up like this, everyone will be dragged into it for a piece and a negative climate will arise. That's what worries us. A second focus is to make every kind of formation count. We are also asking, because it is a major increase in efforts to count every kind of formation. We have already heard that there would sometimes be discussion about this. We are also asking that the training mechanisms subsidised by the regions should be included, so as not to increase the effort again. Informal training, which is included in the CRB's census today, must of course also be taken into account in the future. That's what's in the design. A third point is the autonomy of sectors and enterprises. And so we want to monitor the implementation of the law: we want to respect the autonomy of the sectors as much as possible and, above all, we want to go back to a positive approach to education.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic563x.u10	As far as occasional telework is concerned, we already score above the European average for use in Belgium. We are absolutely in favour of encouraging telework, but that is something that must mature in the minds. We need a mentality change for that. Some are ready, both employers and employees, others are not. It's a gradual process. We also see that the use continues to rise constantly. We therefore call for a flexible instrument. We find it regrettable that a strict legal framework is being provided here, for example, in which one becomes obliged... Suppose now, the employee calls you and says that he has a sick child and asks if he can work at home. If the employer does not want to inform it in writing why he does not want to, because there is a meeting or whatever. There should always be mandatory agreements on any compensation, whereas it is actually a favour to the employee and has no additional costs. For his part, the employer has to pay double agencies, as opposed to structural telework where the employer can effectively save on offices, travel costs, etc. There is also a need to agree on the possible availability of materials. If one decides, as one will decide in larger companies, to create a framework in collective agreements or employment regulations, then one will also have to define the functions for which it is possible or not and the procedures. We are afraid that this will be more of a barrier rather than an incentive effect on the use of telework.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic563x.u11	Good morning, everyone, and thank you for hearing me. For my part, I would like to stress the interest we are taking in the figure of the group of employers in that it allows the pooling of working resources and is also a structure that allows – as employers set up several to hire a worker – to offer, forgive, to attract better profiles since the contracts that will be offered will naturally be more interesting. We welcome the new law in that – two points that we consider important – the procedure for the approval of groups of employers is largely simplified, which will help to avoid some delays, but also in that authorisation can be made immediately on an indefinite basis, and more for a fixed period of time first and possibly for an indefinite period thereafter. It is obviously a guarantee of security that enables the group of employers to conclude contracts of indefinite duration immediately. On the other hand, what is asking us a number of questions is the idea of limiting employer groups to 50 workers. This led us to point out in National Labour Council Opinion No. 2008 that, if this limitation were to be maintained in law, the members representing employers' organizations would call on the government to speedily activate the extension provided for in the following paragraph, since it did not escape you that the law allowed the minister to possibly extend this limit to fifty. That is what we could say briefly, but certainly, to support the employers' groups.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic563x.u12	As far as sliding working hours are concerned, this is a system on which the social partners have worked in the past, which, in itself, leads to greater flexibility for workers, which is a positive thing. For employers, it is particularly important that when employees choose their hours within the system, the needs of enterprises are also sufficiently priority. We see above all as positive that the system of time recording, provided for in an earlier version of the draft law, has evolved into a system of time monitoring, not to record the exact starting and end hours of performance and breaks per employee, but to record the number of hours per employee in plus and in minus. In the end, this is the only information needed to make the wage payment and to check whether the average working time of 38 hours has been effectively achieved and respected. In this context, we regret the fact that a system of time recording is still in place for part-time workers on a fixed schedule. This naturally makes it complex to implement such a system in the workplace. For ordinary workers one can keep the hours in plus and in minus, but for a person who works four days in five full-time, it must be noted when he has entered, when he has started and stopped, when his break has taken off. This is information that the employer cannot always collect. After all, he's not standing next to the station to see when anyone comes in. We fear that a number of part-time workers may not keep up with this information as strictly as possible, which poses important risks for the employer as regards non-compliance with the conditions of part-time work, and that these risks will not result in the implementation of sliding working hours in the company. That's a comment. We hope that something will change in the long term. One final point: we are pleased that the draft law provides for a transitional arrangement. The system of sliding working hours is now regulated by the law, but it used to exist in practice of course. For this purpose, a transitional arrangement is provided for, so that these existing systems can be continued. However, it must be regulated in working regulations or collective agreements, whereas this is not the case in a number of companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic563x.u13	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the people's representatives, you know that we reached an interprofessional agreement just two days ago, including on labour costs development in 2017-2018. I share Mr Verjans' view that today's timing may not be ideal for making a big spectacle here. That would be a bit difficult, too. Moreover, the interprofessional agreement has been concluded on the basis of evaluations and technical calculations which already take account of this draft law. It is therefore not easy to carry out the evaluation now, just after we have reached an agreement on the basis of that law. Nevertheless, it is a draft law that was not only valid for one IPA. It is a draft law that will also apply in the coming years. Democracy has its rights, of course. So I will do my best to give you from an employer's point of view a good weakness analysis of the present draft law. Firstly, there are a number of positive elements in the draft law. It is very important that the CRB now has the freedom to base the prospects for developments not on the three neighbouring countries, rather than on the OECD outlook, but on all available national and international perspectives. The OECD outlook for each IPA over the past 20 years has been around 0,7% too high. Now there is an opportunity to choose structurally better prospects. A second important element is the automatic correction of derailments. In the previous law, derailments could, if there were, be corrected in consultation with the social partners. Now, if there is a disability by 1996, that handicap will be deducted from the margin. Wage cost adjustments will therefore be made automatically in the future and will actually be included in the calculation. Another important element is that, when there are very large derailments, which has been quite common in recent years, for example in the case of oil price increases leading to an increase in inflation, and the margin is no longer sufficient to correct the problem of the past, there was first awareness. We had to convince everyone that there was a problem. There is now a clear formal procedure whereby, if there is a major derailment, the social partners will have two months to give an opinion on it, after which the government will have to take action. Of course, it is also important to provide for a safety margin, which is a quarter of the margin and is at least 0.5 %. That is, of course, a good thing to correct future errors in the outlook in advance. There are, however, a few comments to make. The scope of these prediction errors is actually limited to indexations in Belgium and labour cost developments in neighbouring countries. In fact, this draft law takes too little account of the existence of wage drift. One part of the wage drive, for example, is the palliative increases which, according to the draft law, are still guaranteed in all circumstances. Businesses also have to pay them, as stated in the sectoral collective agreements. These increases are certain, but they are not taken into account in any way in this draft law. It's kind of the blind spot of this bill. Another important comment is that the safety margin is defined as a buffer and is returned if it is subsequently found unnecessary. In itself, we have no problem with the fact that if we take a safety margin for wrong prospects and the prospects are not wrong, that margin will be returned. In itself, that is a logical principle. Only a few cases are conceivable, and possibly due, among other things, to wage drift, with the handicap reappearing in 1996 and the safety margin being returned in the social dialogue. I'll come back to that later. It's a little technical. It is easier to explain with some illustrations of CRB calculations. An important positive point is that provision is made for the perenification of the reduction of the historical handicap. That's important when there's gonna be big windfalls. The prospects may not be right because inflation appears to be much lower, or because the development of labour costs in neighbouring countries is much higher. Then one can have an improvement in the historical handicap. The law stipulates that half of them are indeed intended for this purpose. The other half may then be the subject of social consultation. The only problem was in the technical elaboration of this law. There was a danger, and the CRB pointed out this, that in that technicality the improvement of the historical handicap would automatically disappear again. A perennialisation mechanism is needed to ensure that the improvement of the historical handicap, which could be achieved in the event of major windfalls, is clicked on, if I may call it that. This is also the subject of the majority amendment, which has also been added to this draft law. It is, of course, important to achieve a small improvement in the historical handicap once in a while. It is also very important that the new law eliminates the tax cuts that are foreseen, especially in the tax shift. In the past, of course, we often had the case that a government was reducing the burden of reducing labour costs and thus creating jobs, and that we then saw that in the mechanics of wage costs development or the calculation of the margin, which were actually used to create higher margins for gross wage increases. Thus, of course, the effect of labour cost reductions was lost. Hence the importance that these tax-shift reductions are already neutralized in the calculations. In this way, they cannot lead to additional margins for gross wage increases. For possible future reductions in charges, it is also foreseen that 50% will be neutralized. A final important point is that the mechanisms provided for in the new law are made legally a bit stronger. An agreement between the social partners used to be a text with moral authority. In the future, this will be transformed into an effective NAR cao, which will be declared generally binding. If the social partners do not reach an agreement, it is stipulated that a possible margin would be imposed by the government by royal decree. On the other hand, some more sanctions are provided for. It is somewhat strange that these sanctions are imposed unilaterally on companies. So if companies grant too high wage increases, they are apparently the only ones responsible for this, whereas, of course, when wage increases are given, they are usually asked first. It takes two to tango . That's also a little bit of a "big" but "big" for the positive elements. Then it's not that the legal text is perfect for us, not at all. Of course, the fundamental problem remains that indexing and blighting increases are always guaranteed in the design. Okay, well, that's what the coalition agreement said. If these two automatics did not exist, we might not need the whole law either. It must, of course, restore balance in the light of existing automatisms in the field of indexation and baremic increases, and is a fundamental counterweight to this. We have also always argued for a clear path to be taken towards reducing the historical handicap. This has not been achieved in the present draft. However, one could have done so by systematically reserving a piece of the margin available for the reduction of the historical handicap, but the government did not choose to do so. What is also unfortunate is that the text does not mention that the CRB should be based on the most cautious outlook. Now there is no clear method for the CRB to arrive at a figure of the maximum margin available on the basis of these different perspectives. This discussion is now being passed on to the social partners, which is not always evident. The most important problem in terms of legality is the way in which the correction mechanism is defined. Those are the few paragraphs that you may have tried to read in the legal text and which are extremely difficult to understand and interpret. Well, there are a lot of things that could be better done there if it is really the objective, as stated in the coalition agreement, to stop the handicap from returning to 1996. As I have said, the blind spot in the legal text is that there is no pay or barmaid increase. But they do exist. This could lead, with the mechanism described today in the legislative text, to the possibility that the handicap over 1996 could return as a boomerang after some inter-professional agreements. I am not saying that there is much chance of a new major derailment, but it is certainly quite real that the handicap would become positive again and stabilise around a range similar to the wage drift. So that is a regrettable technical element, which could easily have been solved in another way. There are even slightly less common cases where this handicap would slowly increase further in structural terms by 1996. These cases are also documented in a technical evaluation paper from the CRB, on which the Secretary-General of the CRB, Luc Denayer, may be able to explain a little more later. However, I have taken the liberty of projecting the CRB's evaluation table. An extremely in-depth exercise has been carried out with 16 scenarios, each with different assumptions in terms of wage drift and prediction errors. The six most likely scenarios are reasonable middle-of-the-road scenarios, with 0.4 to 0.8 % wage drift and no or minor upward prediction errors. Thus, precisely in those scenarios, it is seen that, if the proposed law is applied to five successive IPA debt instruments, if the final result is always to be achieved, it may be a little more visual on the next slide debt instrument a handicap between 0 and 1 % compared to 1996. For example, in scenario 10 a negative handicap is initially seen, i.e. an improvement compared with 1996, which is gradually lost. What's that got to do with? That actually has to do with the logic contained in the correction term. On the next slide, you will see that the legislative text gives the first priority to returning safety margins that did not appear to be necessary afterwards. It is only the second priority that the handicap should disappear by 1996. We have always argued in favour of this being the schedule on the next slide, which must first be given absolute priority, since it is also in the coalition agreement, to eliminating the handicap by 1996. For example, if there is a disability of 0.5 %, a correction must be made first. One should not start by giving back margins which, for example, are greater than any negative handicap, which is also foreseen in a number of places. I realize that I am becoming very technical, but I hope that the logic scheme will make it a little clearer. What are the conclusions on the draft law before us? In the short term, for the first IPA, there are few difficulties, as there are still no safety margins to give back. The buffer is not yet in operation. More cautious prospects are also being used than in the OECD. An effective safety margin of 0.5 % is taken. The impact of the tax shift is neutralized, which is also a logical and good thing in the interests of employment in our country. In the meantime, it has resulted in an IPA. We can also conclude that if there are relatively large derailments in labour cost developments due to higher than expected indexations in Belgium or lower than expected wage increases in neighbouring countries, the law will result in government corrections and/or measures more quickly and automatically. That is also an excellent thing. Furthermore, it is also positive that the majority amendment could make some improvements to the historical handicap possible in the case of large windfalls. That too is an excellent thing. The problem is in the medium term, two or three IPA debt instruments further on. If developments in the field are relatively in line with the outlook and the wage drift is its usual size, on average between 0.4% and 0.8 percent, then we are heading towards the boomerang effect, which would lead us to a gradual return of disability by 1996. I am talking here about the handicap compared with 1996, not about the historical handicap. It could also reappear and take levels between 0 and 1%, which we believe is also contrary to the coalition agreement. That's our problem. We believe that the coalition agreement has not been complied with on this point. Trade unions have a problem with, among other things, wage costs subsidies, which were also included in the government agreement. That had to be worked on. For your information, I can only say that the figure of the historical handicap we have is based on a study by the expert group on competitiveness and employment. It is a 2013 report in which he calculated the historical handicap at the time to a good 14%. This figure took into account all possible tax subsidies relevant to the private sector. So when we talk about a historical handicap, which was 14% a few years ago and now 10%, all possible tax subsidies have been taken into account. So even after deduction of that, we still have a disability of about 10% at the moment. That being said, if we look at the old law of course, we must say that the new legislative text as a whole is an improvement that should lead to a limited further improvement in competitiveness, stronger economic growth and also more job creation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic563x.u14	Maybe afterwards but very briefly because we had agreed in advance and we have the same vision VBO, UCM and Unizo, I think that the draft law certainly has a big disadvantage. That's that it's complex. It is also complex matter to put such matters into law. I think that when assessing whether the text helps to avoid what has happened in the past with the old law of 1996, namely the derailment of labour costs since 2005, with all the consequences for companies and entrepreneurs who are no longer competitive, consequences for workers who lose their jobs and consequences for jobseekers who do not get a job. I think the answer is positive, so this draft law is effective in ensuring that it does not happen again for a number of reasons. I'll give you three. Edward quoted them as well, but I insist on getting them straight for a while. The first is the introduction of the concept of safety margin. That's something Unizo has been advocating for 10 or 15 years. That's what finally happened. That is a good thing, because predicting wage costs in neighbouring countries and domestic inflation is very difficult. Now the idea of that safety margin is in there. That is absolutely necessary. Secondly, if we are wrong about that prospect, we will be obliged to correct, directly in the next IPA. That was not the case in the past, and we will have to do so now. This is absolutely necessary, once again, in order to prevent what happened again in 2005 and in subsequent years. Finally and thirdly, it is very important that, if everyone is making efforts to improve the competitiveness of companies through wage cuts, this effort is used effectively to improve the competitiveness of companies and not to increase wages, because then mopping with the crane is open. For these reasons, we are generally in favour of the draft law, even though we have some reservations.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic563x.u15	I would now like to give the floor to Mr Denayer of the Central Council for Business.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic563x.u16	Madam Chair, ladies and gentlemen of the people, the purpose of my presentation today is to present to you the note that we made for the social partners to try to better understand how the bill was going to work. At the end and in the beginning (for non-social interlocutors of course of the Group of Ten), since it is not yet available on the board's website, I will present to you the summary table which allowed to define the maximum margin available in the interprofessional agreement. We did these simulations to try to test the impact of the law on a long term, i.e. about ten years, five periods of interprofessional agreements. We wanted to see what would happen, during these five periods, at the level of wage disability since 1996, at the level of what has already been discussed (the correction of historical disability), according to the evolution of the maximum margin available and the evolution of the maximum margin according to different scenarios. Two words, now, to explain how the new law works and how our simulations work. The first element is that we always leave, as in the old law, forecasts of the evolution of the wage cost in the reference countries. In the simulations, we set them at 5%. This is the average of the last three periods of interprofessional agreements we have known, to which we remove the indexation forecast (we have taken 3.5% for the same reason). Then the correction term is removed. This term has several functions: the first is to apply the principle of the law, i.e. an automatic correction principle if there is a positive wage gap - what the law calls a positive handicap - compared to the average of the three. Nevertheless, in the mechanics of the law, it also has a series of other functions, that is to return to the workers the unused part of the safety margin. The idea is that this margin of safety can only be used to correct the risk of error and not to correct the historical handicap. The third element which falls within this term of correction is to return to the worker all or part of the negative gap, which is referred to as the negative disability in the law and which partly serves to correct the historical disability automatically at 50%, but once it is corrected, the law provides that 100% is returned to the worker. This term of correction has a main function, a principle of correction to avoid any wage gap, and finally to prevent the formation of a significant wage gap compared to 1996. And then he had a series of other functions depending on the political agreement. What actually makes - the representative of the FEB has already mentioned - particularly complex Article 5 of the Act. To try to explain what we have done, we have tried to see, depending on the different possibilities of the law - either the disability is positive or equal to zero, or the disability is negative - the different situations with regard to the forecast error - is it greater or less than the margin of safety? These are all possible cases of operation of the law. Then, we tested them for different possible situations in terms of wage formation mechanism - so small forecast errors, large forecast errors, forecast errors that are positive, forecast errors that are negative, structural effects... To explain what it is a voorspelling fir, a forecast error, is the fact that we do not know how to correctly predict wage developments in other countries, the fact that we do not know how to correctly predict indexation changes because we do not know how to predict inflation trends properly. The structural effect, to make you more telling, if you take, for example, what we have seen in recent years, a very strong job creation through the securities services, the level of wages of the securities services is relatively low and will therefore weigh down on the macroeconomic evolution of the wages used in the law. In the same way, if you have a very important development in the petrochemistry or chemistry or pharmacy sector, then you will have a positive structural effect. Of course, this is involved in wage formation mechanisms, i.e. in the macroeconomic result of the wage developments we have. And a third effect we tested is the effect of the scales. A priori, we do not know what will happen in the negotiations of the Joint Committees. We tested two situations. The situation in which the effect of scales in the Joint Committees is not taken into account, and the fact that they are taken into account in the negotiations at the level of the Joint Committees. This gives the 16 scenarios that the FEB presented earlier. What are the results of these simulations? Overall, the maximum margin available is between 0 and 2.1%. That we have a stabilization of the wage handicap either in positive or in negative at a certain level, which is partly due to the way our simulations are constructed, since at each period we have a correction of the disability, but at each period we have a new handicap that is created. The third element is that, in cases where there is a significant forecast error (the structural effects and the effects due to the very important scale), we can find ourselves in situations where the margin, i.e. fundamentally the evolution of wages in the other countries, no longer makes it possible to correct the wage handicap. The fourth element, and these are such important elements in the discussions, is that if between the social partners, we take into account the evolution of the scales at the level of the Joint Committees, from then on, of course, the risk of having a wage handicap is reduced. Similarly, the social partners can, by setting the maximum margin, which may be less than the maximum margin available, reduce the risk of having a positive wage disadvantage. The last thing we talked about was the historical handicap. First, in the law, there can be no correction of the historical handicap in the mechanics of the training of the maximum available margin only through a negative wage handicap. The probability of having a negative wage disadvantage is all the more important as the maximum margin is less than the maximum margin available. These are the different conclusions we have drawn. I would like to add one that I forgot at the beginning of my presentation about the margin of prevention. In all the simulations carried out for more than a year for the social partners, the characteristic of this preventive mechanism is that it reduces the risk, and can even greatly reduce the risk, of ending up in a situation of wage blockade or quasi-blockage, as we have seen in recent years. That is to say, we avoid the yo-yo effect, which consists of having a very large margin at a given moment, and then a wage freeze afterwards. Its effect is to smooth the evolution of wages over time. In the letter of response to the Minister's request for advice, the social partners in fact asked the Minister three questions. First question: how does the law plan to take into account the diversity of sources of forecast? The person from the FEB said earlier: in the past, the law told us to rely on OECD figures. The law said "base," so it meant that other sources of information could be used to correct OECD figures; it was always, for us, particularly complicated to do, because it required us to compare methodologically all the sources of forecasts available to us, and this is not a particularly easy exercise. So, the law today allows us to use all sources of forecast, and you'll see, that's what we did in this year's technical report. The second question is how the wage handicap since 1996 should be determined in order to make the correction of the historical wage handicap effective. This is the majority's amendment proposal to reduce technical problems. Question 3: How are the baraemic increases dealt with under the mechanism provided for in the draft legislation? We will make a note for the social partners at the time of approval of the law to see to what extent an answer has been given to their various questions. The latter slide represents the final table of a score of about 20 pages summarizing how to calculate (the press knew it almost before we calculated it) the maximum margins available according to four scenarios: that of the European Commission, the OECD, national banks and national forecasts. For each scenario, we set out forecasts. Because the forecasts are not issued at the same time, the exercise is not easy and therefore we have to exclude for some countries certain figures to replace them with those we have compared to other forecasts, which you can observe in the note. Secondly, we have the National Bank of Belgium and the term correction which is, since we are one year after the implementation of the law, the residual wage handicap in the sense that the law defines it. I'll come back later. This residual wage handicap between 0 and - 0.2, showing a correction term of 0.1 since 0.5% are redistributed to workers and this is the case here (50% go to the correction of the historical handicap). This happens to the maximum margin available before the safety margin. We have taken a safety margin since 25% of these figures give a figure of less than 0.5% and those that give maximum margins available between 0.9 and 1.2 and so you can ask yourself why we have taken, ultimately, 1.1. The reason for this is that between the time we made these data and the time when they were transmitted to the social partners, there were, on the one hand, further revisions of inflation due to measures decided by the regional governments which increased inflation and the indexation mechanism, which made it difficult to use 1.2%, and, on the other hand, we were not going to use 0.9% in so far as the first three scenarios are negative (even if it is zero), we had the impression that the scenarios were more in the direction of a negative wage gap. So we chose the scenario between 1.2 and 0.9 which is 1.1. This had to be done because we didn't have time to have an in-depth discussion with the social partners about what we call, in a barbaric term, the "aggregative mechanism", that is, how, from a set of data – here you have them in four scenarios but we could very well compose them differently and you will see that in the note we have produced – we can get a single number. Since we were unable to discuss it, the bill referred it to the discussion of the social partners, we chose to do so. That is what I wanted to share with you on the basis of the information that was available at the level of the secretariat of the Central Economic Council. Madam President, thank you for the opportunity to explain this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic563x.u17	Thank you very much, Mr Denayer. Finally, I would like to address Mrs Stevens of the Institute for the Equality of Men and Women.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic563x.u18	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you so much for inviting us. My name is Liesbet Stevens, I'm deputy director of the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men. I have to start by apologizing to my director, Mr Pastee; he unfortunately fell because of the flu. Perhaps you should clarify that the Institute is the independent body for promoting equality, which is responsible for combating discrimination on grounds of sex and promoting equality between women and men. We do this by assisting individual victims of discrimination, by carrying out research and by issuing independent opinions and recommendations on these issues. We would like to express our thanks to the committee for the invitation to be here today. We are pleased to note that Parliament is well aware of the important gender dimension of the legislative proposal on workable and manoeuvrable work. I am also going to confine myself to that bill. If I'm going to talk about the pay gap, it's about the gender pay gap. Unlike the other speakers who have already been mentioned here today, I think we are only very recently aware of the texts of the draft law. I hope that you can understand that the limitations we had on preparation time and speaking time are a certain challenge and that I will not go into all the elements of the draft law, but you may not mind that in view of the time. I will confine myself mainly to two more general comments relating, on the one hand, to the gender dimension in the regulatory impact analysis and, on the other hand, to flexibility as an opportunity, but also as a threat to gender equality in the labour market. Gender mainstreaming is the technique of avoiding adverse effects on gender equality, i.e. before the introduction of legislation or regulation in general. Most of the time it is important to note that it is unintended adverse effects. It is also an internationally recognized technique to promote equality between women and men, but it is a technique that is relatively new in the Belgian administrative context. I am sorry to note that this is also apparent and that this is not only the case in the draft law before us today. The gender mainstreaming law that introduced a gender analysis with new regulation dates back to 2007. In 2013, the gender component was integrated into the integrated impact analysis. They've been working on it ever since. A positive element is that the Federal Action Plan Gender mainstreaming, adopted in July 2015, indicated that the reform currently under discussion should be the subject of a thorough exercise to carry out the gender analysis correctly. Unfortunately, the Institute has to observe that the quality of gender analysis does not fully meet expectations. It is a general statement and yet again a finding which goes beyond the present draft law that it is usually confined to the statement that there is no explicitly different treatment of women and men. In other words, it is stated that there is no desire to introduce rules specifically applicable only to women or specifically applicable only to men. Forgive me for being a little harsh, but I wouldn't fucking do it. In fact, it says that there is no direct discrimination. However, this is quite self-evident and, moreover, discrimination is even constitutionally prohibited. In our opinion, the ambition of gender analysis should be higher, especially in this context. After all, I think it would be very difficult to find an expert on this matter who would deny the important gender dimension. There is evidence on this that makes it possible to develop reliable hypotheses on the effects of the proposed legislative changes. In that context, I would just like to quote some of the relevant data. For example, there is the fact that the rate of effectiveness of men is still higher than that of women. Men have an efficacy rate of about 70 %, women are now at 63 %. I would like to tell you that the more children there are in a family, the greater the gap in effectiveness. In three children, men have an efficacy rate of 78%, and women fall back to an efficacy rate of 50%. There is also such a thing as horizontal and vertical segregation on the labour market, the so-called glass ceiling. In many cases it is possible to talk about women's occupations and men's occupations, women's sectors and men's sectors. We also know that 80% of part-time workers are women, so any part-time work scheme will have a major impact on women. This is therefore a danger zone for forms of indirect discrimination. In addition, research shows that about 1 in 5 of part-time female workers explicitly do so with the aim of reconciling work and family life, compared with only 5% of male part-time workers. In 80% of single-parent families these are single women with children. In terms of time use, women still take on almost 9 hours a week more household tasks than men. Women perform household tasks almost 22 hours a week. Men are at 13 hours a week. To the extent necessary to mention this, there is still the gender pay gap. In the meantime, this is 21%, if you look at it on a gross annual basis. In view of these findings, the Institute dares argue that if a gender analysis, for whatever reason, has not been possible in a matter of which the gender dimension itself is not under discussion, the regulatory texts should at least include a post-fact evaluation of the gender impact.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic563x.u19	Président: Stefaan Vercamer. The current draft law includes an evaluation of the system of career savings. This responsibility is assigned to the National Labour Council, which is a very positive element. We would recommend that a system be set up to evaluate the gender impact of all proposed reforms. We leave it up to the wisdom of Parliament and the social partners to consider whether this is something in which the FOD WASO can play an important role, or whether it is something that can be included exclusively by the National Labour Council. We would like to recall that the institute has a very constructive cooperation with the FOD WASO in relation to the assessment of the pay gap law. In any case, we are prepared to contribute to a possible assessment of the law in a manoeuvrable and workable manner. On the second point, namely that flexibilisation can have a major impact on gender equality, I would point out that this is obviously due to the fact that flexibilisation can be an opportunity to improve the combination of work and family life, although there are also a number of adders to it. In general terms, it should be noted that in the short and medium term flexibility in order to improve the reconciliation of work and family life is often de facto a demand for female workers. In the short and medium term, therefore, it will certainly be able to meet their demand for a better reconciliation of work and family life. In the long term, it is crucial to seek a better distribution of care and household tasks, in order to improve equality between women and men in the labour market. Measures which give women the impression that they have a particular type or profile on the labour market, with certain limitations in employability or flexibility, can always have a boomerang effect on women's recruitment and promotion opportunities. Increasing flexibility can make the combination of work and family easier but also more difficult. It is therefore an opportunity and a risk at the same time. I would like to remind you of a worrying observation, which I fear is that recent research by the Institute on the use of time, shows that workers who are going to work for a better reconciliation of work and private part-time work indicate that they are subsequently experiencing more stress than when they were still working full-time. This raises the fundamental question of whether part-time work is a good thing in the light of keeping workable. That is certainly a finding that requires more research. The draft law clearly contains positive elements, and certainly a number of elements which may pose risks in terms of gender equality. For example, it is undoubtedly positive that the employer in terms of career savings asks the social partners to carry out a gender impact analysis. We look forward with interest to the RIA of the social partners in relation to career savings. The change in working hours and the increase in time credit and palliative leave can also de facto provide more breathing space in the short and medium term, especially for women who experience difficulties in reconciling work and family life. Once again, it may be at the disadvantage of women by becoming unconscious elements of the image of the ideal worker, which could encourage women's prejudices on the labour market. This encourages us to say that, in principle, these measures are best combined with measures that can ensure that men are more motivated to take care and domestic tasks. In our view, possible elements that could pose a risk to gender equality are the fact that it is crucial that workers and workers have sufficient predictability in terms of the hours they have to perform and when they have to perform them. The more unpredictable those hours become, the more difficult the organization of the home front. We are thinking mainly of the care of children. This may be a very difficult horde, especially for female workers. The question is also how the protection of workers and workers with family responsibilities will be organised in this context. If I am not fully familiar with the details of the draft law on this point, I hope you will forgive me. I would like to make that clear in the form of a question and on the basis of a very clearly problematic dossier that we are dealing with at the moment. It's about a case where a woman, a single mother, has flexible hours. She works in shifts and is informed by her employer by SMS the day before that she has to do not the morning but the evening hift the day after because of another employee's illness. She reacts that this is not possible because she has no care for her child in the evening. Some text messages have been exchanged, but the last one was a text message that told the lady that she shouldn't be working anymore. There is, of course, no doubt, all sorts of things going on, including possible discrimination on the grounds of motherhood of the lady in question, but it does raise the question of how the protection of vulnerable workers will be organised in this area. In all honesty, I must also say that this lady herself does not have the means to make this a lawsuit. It is only because she has found the way to the institute that this will now be a trial. A difficult quantifiable risk is what these developments are going to do with regard to the standard expectations of worker flexibility. It is plausible, given what we know from the use of time, that it will be mainly men who will be able to be regarded as more flexible workers. That is an assumption, but I think this is a reasonable assumption. This, of course, has an immediate potential negative impact on the pay gap, but it could also be at the disadvantage of women in terms of recruitment and promotions in a more general sense. Every year we are confronted with cases where women tell us that in the context of job interviews they are informed, sometimes in covered terms, but sometimes not at all, according to their children's wishes. We know cases of women who have had to sign an undated resignation letter in order to start at a certain place. They were informed that the letter of resignation would come on the table if they became pregnant within a certain period of time. I am absolutely not saying that these are common practices, but they are. There are also very many employers who sometimes, apparently with good intentions, point out to young women with children that it will not be possible to combine the job they have on offer or the promotion that may be possible with family responsibilities. Or they ask explicit questions. How are we going to do that? Either it is simply stated that this is the reason why the lady in question is not recruited or not promoted. Finally, I think it is crucial that the law is carefully evaluated from a gender perspective. I believe that the social partners have an important role to play in this. In the long term, and more fundamentally, it remains important to take measures to encourage men to take care tasks and domestic tasks.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic563x.u20	We have received a nice overview from different angles. Ladies and gentlemen, I am now giving you the opportunity to ask further questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic563x.u21	Mr President, I do not wish to prolong the debates more than necessary. I would like to thank all the speakers who have provided us with a great deal of information that will allow us to feed into the political debate with Deputy Prime Minister Peeters. I regret that more members are not present. Having said that, I would like to ask Mr Denayer a question. It is often said that cemeteries are populated by people believed to be indispensable. But if he didn't exist, I don't know how to do it! When we read the revision of the 1996 Act, we can say that we are not part of a great simplification. Bargaining margins are being reduced, but I do not feel that much is being simplified. Yesterday, during the debate in plenary, Minister Peeters said that the interprofessional agreement, particularly with regard to wages, had taken place on the basis of the bill before us. My question is this: if this amendment to the 1996 Act were not on the benches of parliament, what would have been the calculation of the Central Economic Council for the negotiation of the interprofessional agreement? I do not wish to enter into a political debate here on the question of why one opts for such or such wage subsidies, why the norm is no longer indicative. On this subject, I have a lot to say. I'll tell Minister Peeters. Here, my question is simply technical.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic563x.u22	Mr President, in turn, I would like to thank the interlocutors for the quality of their interventions this afternoon. I won't be very long either because I think a lot of things have been said. I will simply say, first of all, on the part of the law that can be done, that the result seems to me to be balanced. It is understood that the unions find that we are going too far towards a form of individualisation, that the employers regret that this does not go far enough. In conclusion, I would say that it is an agreement that is balanced. Hence, one may sometimes regret the caricatural presentations that were made and the many anathemas that were pronounced by some towards those who supported this agreement. I'm sorry. On this aspect of things, I have two questions that I ask the interlocutors who will feel most able to answer. In another life, I am also the manager of an SME and, with regard to the five-day training requirement, I would like to know how this can be implemented in practice. It is really complicated to judge and be able to set up five days of training for all workers. The statutes are different, whether it is an employee or a worker, whether it is a qualified person or a less qualified person. I would like to know whether the in-house training provided by companies will be resumed. I also know that, depending on the number of workers, the obligations will be different. However, I have the impression that the definition of SMEs is not the one that was traditionally used. Could anyone also inform me of any sanctions that might be imposed on companies that would not apply this? Who can give me a little more details about this? If you don't know any more, it's okay. I'll ask the minister. My second question concerns groups of employers. We know that in France, this method of work is very used and has a great success. Here in Belgium, in fact, given the complexity that had been in place so far, it was practically impossible to do this kind of thing. It was, at least, difficult. I think there were barely a dozen groups of employers. Perhaps the French experience could enlighten us and tell us in which sectors such groups of employers could come. On this first part of my speech, I would simply say that, overall, we can be satisfied with the measures that are presented with, of course, a whole series of practical questions that arise. On the second part, the part of the 1996 law reform, I have no specific questions. I will simply welcome – and I will repeat the conclusion that was made earlier – the fact that with this mechanism, obviously, we will avoid the yo-yo effects. This, somewhere, is very positive because that was a problem in the past. Sometimes there were uncontrolled increases because indexation was not sufficiently taken into account or because the mechanism was not strong enough and it had to be corrected by very unpopular index jump measures. That kind of thing should not happen with this legislation anymore. I am therefore glad that, perhaps, Mrs Onkelinx, this seems a little more technical or more complicated. Sometimes a little more complexity allows for greater wisdom in decision-making. For the rest, I will reserve my questions for the ministers next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic563x.u23	Mr President, I too would like to thank the many speakers for their enlightening explanations and analyses, which were not always in line, but were at least clear. I have four more questions for clarification. The first question is addressed to Mrs Ulens. You mentioned a labour cost difference of 0.2 % if productivity differences were taken into account. When do these numbers start to apply? Is the effect of the index jump and the very modest wage standard of 2015-2016 already there or not? After all, I belong to the employers' organisations in a different way. There is talk of a pay disability of 10%, while you are talking about 0.2 %, so I would like to hear which figures were taken into account. A second question, also to the social partners, the government has said that the draft law on part-time work is an implementation of the so-called Fact Sheet 4 of the consultation on this issue in 2013. During this consultation, did we also reach an agreement on the additional hours without overtime for part-time work, which the government has now mainly regulated with the Royal Decree? Was it not agreed that the many abuses of the magazines in the original contracts of employment, the so-called 'avenants', would be dealt with or that a solution would be found? I have heard Mrs Stevens say that people are in a situation where, when working part-time, people experience more stress than they do when working full-time. So I think there's a solution to the abuses around the avenants, but it's not in a royal decision. My question is whether it is in your agreement or not. My third question is addressed to Mr Denayer. The draft law states that it is the Central Council for Business that will have to determine the historical wage handicap. Is it the secretariat of the CRB that will have to do that, or is it the social partners? How's that taken care of? In what way will that have to be taken into account? Will the differences in productivity, which show that there is not always a historical wage handicap, be taken into account? Could you give us a little more explanation? The last question is addressed to employers' organisations. Someone said about e-commerce that it is regrettable that it is only for a few sectors and not for all sectors, and that there were many blockages, which prevented e-commerce from being possible in night work. I have also heard the trade unions saying that they have made this possible, that they have closed frameworks since 2015. Those collective agreements have been declared binding. How many applications have there been since the closing of the framework cao's? What kind of blockades are we talking about here? What ensured that applications could not be dealt with?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic563x.u24	Mr President, I would like to join all the thanks that have been extended to all the speakers. There is a whole range of information which has been presented, but which is also in the opinion of the National Labour Council (NCT). I will allow myself a few supplementary questions, especially on matters that we did not necessarily mention. Firstly, on the "werkbaar wendbaar werk", we pointed out that, on flexible working hours, the only change envisaged is a one-year obligation, which does not even allow companies to choose to do so over a shorter period, as it did. Had there been a discussion between the social partners on the Royal Decree of 10 February 1965? This text refers to persons who are in a position of management or trust and for whom the rules on working hours do not apply. Indeed, in relation to the evolution and modernization of the organization of work, everyone will agree that a number of positions, types of work, responsibilities are not present in this royal decree of 65. Sometimes, before revolutionizing everything, it is also necessary to update the texts, in relation to evolution. I wanted to check whether this point has been discussed, whether you have been able to discuss it with Minister Peeters, whether it is a lead that could be put on the table, even if it is on the initiative of the social partners within the CNT. On the career savings account, there are a lot of questions, even if it's a model I find interesting. From the moment we deal with this at sectoral level, we risk seeing a series of regulatory disparities between sectors or even between companies that will introduce a system. Should it not be considered by any bench, employer or union, by settling it through a collective labour agreement (CCT) at the level of the CNT? That's not how this bill looks at it at all. It might be interesting to fix it differently. At the telework level, a series of comments were made, whether in relation to your comments or the views of the NTC. I thought I understood, but I can be wrong, that the social partners were discussing this subject, on which they had not managed to conclude, and that they were therefore facing a failure. The question is whether, rather than settling it immediately in the law with a whole series of questions that remain, we would not give the chance to explore further this debate on occasional telework within the CNT, rather than sinking it into the law, even if we put the principle or title in the law while allowing the social partners to move forward on the subject. The grouping of employers is an important point largely under-usable today, in any case in the model as it exists, while it is really very interesting. I had two questions about that. First, is what is marked in the current law sufficient? Shouldn't the legal framework be further complemented? If so, what primary elements are missing to make this device more accessible, so that it can be multiplied and the reality is closer to the ground? Secondly, on the Joint Committee, I fully understand the value of having a single Joint Committee and how this can make matters easier. But there is also a difficulty since it will be allowed to make available to a member of the group of employers workers who may be on a joint committee other than that to which that member belongs. As a result, a wide range of questions will be asked about different conditions of remuneration or working conditions between workers. Is this a problem for you? Is there another way to solve this problem with ways of improving it? Did you work on this? Should we work on it now? On the training side, however, it remains a major factor in the competitiveness of enterprises, especially since professional careers are extended and workers have much less careers in a single straight line. These careers, tomorrow even more than today, will experience an evolution with many changes in work. It's an important element to me. [[I have heard the messages from both sides.]] I'm going to play cash. My fear with regard to what is in the bill today is that in substance there is nothing to be decided and that in a year or two years' time there is no agreement and that, therefore, this aspect cannot be implemented. I repeat, however, that is a major element for competitiveness and for workers as such. How can we move forward to avoid the trap of paralysis on the training file? Some may point out that in any case there is no other choice, the Constitutional Court, etc., but finally, the Constitutional Court had ruled on the aspect of the sanction. It seems to me that, on the part of workers and employers, we must be able to make real progress, and we must no longer ask ourselves questions about training. I wanted to give you a little bit of the ball back to each other. I fear, in fact, with this project, that it is more of a paralysis and a non-concretization where everyone is going to look at each other. How can we overcome this obstacle? On the 1996 Act, I wanted to address three aspects, starting with a personal comment. I am not at all an expert on the 1996 law, but the people I was able to question to the right and left about this bill are only talking to me about one thing – even if we are not technicians and even for people who know a little more about it – it is the ultra-complexity of this bill. I have three questions, though, which I think are important. Does it still make sense to talk in 2016 about historical disability? In 20 years, since the 1996 law, the world has changed, economic reality has changed. Does it still make sense to talk about historical disability? It's a basic question. Two: on the baraemic increases, Minister Peeters, who presented his presentation on the reform of the 96 law two days ago, told us that baraemic increases were guaranteed. He even used the term "immunized." How will baraemic increases be guaranteed when we know that it is difficult to predict and measure increases? We know that there is a different impact in different sectors. I did not understand what the minister said, since he used the word "guarantees" and the word "immunized". Are these baraemic increases immune to the calculation of disability, hence margin, etc.- Is that what you're saying? How can they be guaranteed in accordance with the law, since it is not predictable? So many questions that I think are important, because we cannot at the same time decree that these baraemic increases are guaranteed, or even immunized, even though we are not clear on how we can really guarantee them. And finally, on the control side, there is a great complexity. You will say that all this is done through the Central Economic Council, which, in fact, must find it very simple. I'm sorry to talk about complexity. You will tell me that, of course, everything will be discussed with the social partners. I hope that when it has to be applied to an SME, for example, it will not take too much wage engineering or wage engineers to check all this. Today, in the background, if I'm not mistaken, there is no real control. How is this going to happen tomorrow? Could this pose problems at the enterprise level? This extremely complex control of something complex to be applied in a complex way within companies, isn't it going to eventually lead to still a little more complicated situations? Or will it be like today and, basically, there will be no effective control? One could necessarily, at some point, find one with additional difficulties, when one will have to see the application of successive PIAs and see the effect, ultimately, on the wage disability. It is true that he would have been interesting, and I will end by that, Mr. President, with a question that I thought I would not dare ask, but which burned my lips. As someone put it, I'm doing it too. I do not know whether the work has been done to find out what would have been, under the 1996 Act as it exists today, what would actually have been the margin calculation. This may be an unspeakable question, given the major issue, so that the government can effectively validate the entire IPA, whose project was completed and concluded two days ago. Bravo, by the way, to C10! It is particularly important, it seems to me, that this project can become a complete IPA. I ask the question theoretically. If I don't get an answer, I'll understand. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic563x.u25	Mr. Chair, thank you to all the speakers for their presentations. First, a question about the amendment to the 1996 Act. I must admit that I do not understand too much the employers' logic, the employer's justification for neutralizing wage subsidies. I have the impression that we have a little, here, a double penalty for the workers: at the same time, they must moderate their wages, and at the same time, their indirect wages, via social security, will also be reduced. But I don't think we're really going to move on at that level. In my opinion, the answer will be more of the order of the striped disk than anything else. Above all, I would like to focus on asking Mr Denayer a question which is somewhat similar to that of colleagues, but which is perhaps more specific. Is there any way of quantifying, in terms of percentage change, what would have been the margin without what colleagues have called this "new law against old law"? I would simply say: the impact of the neutralisation of wage subsidies? What is he? How many percentage points would it be if this rule did not exist? I don't know if you have this in store, but it would be interesting to know. On the work that can be done, I was very surprised to read the impact assessment, where we finally see that, according to the chapters, everything is either positive or neutral for each point: the fight against poverty, equal opportunities, social cohesion, gender equality, health, jobs. Is there no negative aspect? I am speaking to the trade unions and Mrs Lisbet Stevens, on gender equality: do you not think that with the new law, the fact that overtime, which is no longer subject to a surcharge, will in future have a financial impact for part-time workers, and in particular for women, since they represent a large part-time worker? In terms of poverty reduction and gender equality, this raises questions. In terms of health, will the increased stress of flexibility not have an impact on health? As far as employment is concerned, from the moment there are more overtime worked, it will be less jobs for those who could have worked overtime. To make a simple calculation – I know that there are other factors –, nineteen workers who work a hundred hours overtime, it makes one more unemployed. I would like to address a question on the Plus Minus Conto to employers' organisations. This system already exists in the automotive sector. Here we are planning a system that would allow, where appropriate, this mechanism to be extended to other sectors. Are there actual demands from certain companies and sectors to extend this system? If so, in which sectors? With regard to the system of 100 overtime hours which would depend on the individual worker's authorization, I would like to ask the trade unions whether anything provided for in the law seems to them sufficient to guarantee the voluntary nature of the worker's acceptance? Are the guarantees sufficient for it to be a voluntary participation in these overtime hours?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic563x.u26	Allow me to make three brief comments myself. Firstly, Mr Verjans, you spoke of alternatives, for which you had too little time. Can you explain these alternatives? For example, what could have been the alternatives to youth wages? Secondly, several colleagues have discussed the training. What happens if the commitments are not met? The supplementary duty is calculated on averages per full-time equivalent, but it is not a personal right. If the objectives are not met, how will they be dealt with? Thirdly, Mr Verjans, I am addressing you once again, and you asked for a legal check to be made on the international law of free negotiation. Since the Council of State has not made any comments, either on free negotiations or on collective bargaining, is that not enough as a guarantee?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic563x.u27	Mr. Chair, there have been several questions about the complexity of the legislation. What would have been provided to the social partners in the context of the previous law in relation to this and in relation to the table that is there? They were provided with a forecast of the average of the three. They were provided with indexation. They have been provided with the wage gap since 1996. They were provided with a series of information on average wage trends among the three and a series of information on economic conditions. These two blocks were intended to enable the social partners to estimate the risk of error, given the forecasts and the known trends in wages in the reference countries, as well as what was known about the economic situation. At times, the social partners have asked us, for example, to do alternative simulations. Given that the economic situation was changing differently, what is the impact of this different development of the economic situation on the average wage forecasts for the three? We provided all this information to the social partners, who had to determine a maximum margin on that basis. The way they used all the information we gave them was a black box. It is not known what has been said or how this has been negotiated within the Group of Ten. This is for the operation in the previous law. Second element, on complexity. In fact, the real complexity of the law is at the level of calculating the correction term. On the one hand, the complexity of the law is to transcribe mathematical equations in legal terms. It's never easy, it's always a very complicated exercise. But, more concretely, in the mechanism of the law, it is all the political balances that govern the mechanism of the law. So there is one principle: we wanted to have a system of prevention, which is a kind of automatic system - it is the 0.5% that is in the margin of safety - which actually replaces the information given about wages and the situation or which in any case makes this information less sensitive in the determination of the margin since we have some security. Now, if we make a mistake, it's taken into account. And the balance is that we want it to be returned to the worker if there is no forecast error. There is an interaction in relation to this with the desire to have a correction of a historical gap, the fact that we want to have 50% that serve the historical gap and 50% that have the possibility to return to the worker and, ultimately, when the historical gap is removed, 100% go to the worker. It is of course these two elements and the interaction between these two elements that make all the complexity of the article of the law and the complexity of the method of calculation or equations that you could see in the note that we made. Another question was asked about the historical handicap. The law clearly states that this is up to the CBR and the social partners. It is up to the social partners to reach an agreement on the historical wage handicap. I have been in the circuit of competitiveness since 1992. I wrote for a piece in the old law of 1996. From that moment on, there was a discussion about the historical handicap, which, of course, was not a historical handicap in 1996. This provides an answer for the wage subsidies and contribution reductions that were decided at the time by the Dehaene government. Since 1996, there has been a discussion between the social partners on the starting point of the law. Indeed, the law has seen how it has evolved since 1996. The question is: what from the starting point? At the outset, the Dehaene government had decided on a series of reductions in contributions. However, the law gave the social partners the opportunity to determine whether these reductions in contributions should be used to correct competitiveness or whether they should be used to raise wages. Mechanically, in the old law, they were used to raise wages. A decision by the social partners was therefore needed to ensure that they were used for competitiveness. Since then, there has been a discussion between the social partners. You have heard the debate today on "what about the level of wages, what about the level of productivity?" This debate continues, as you have seen. It is now an opportunity to put the actual situation between the social partners to a standstill. What is called a historical handicap, everything will depend on the methodology and what they want to measure. We can also measure what is happening today and have an evolutionary view of things. The door is completely open. It all depends on them. It can also be linked to employment, as some parliamentarians have already mentioned. That is the answer I can give on the historical handicap. With respect to baraemic increases, in the bill as it is now, and indexation, nothing is changed from the 1996 Act. This means that if one has a zero margin, indexation as well as baraemic increases can be granted. We have asked the question of the nature of the interaction with the mechanism of the law: if the margin is zero, that we correct and that we no longer have a wage gap – we can see it among our simulations – it is clear that, if everything goes well, we will have a wage handicap corresponding to the wage increases that will have to be corrected. This is a problem of solidarity between workers since some have baremic increases while others do not. This is a problem to be managed between social partners. The explanatory memorandum of the law refers this to the social partners. I come to the question of control. There are two elements of control. There is the control by the Central Economic Council, therefore of the operating mechanism, to draw up all the figures that are there. The macroeconomic control mechanism based on national accounts figures does not pose too many problems, except for the fact that forecasts are first worked on, then on observed figures and these observed figures are reviewed. But that does not change anything in relation to the previous law. The other control mechanism is the enforcement mechanism at enterprise level. The same question arose in the previous law. I used to explain that, when we look at a macroeconomic figure that says 2.1% of macroeconomic wage increases, you have roughly 50% of companies with lower wages and 50% of companies with very high wage increases. What's this got to do with it? This is due to macroeconomic dynamics. Take a small company of ten workers that hires an engineer. She will have a very large increase in her wages (i.e., wage bill divided by the number of hours). The whole difficulty of control at company level, of course, is that. It's based on statistics. You have roughly 50% of businesses necessarily in a normal economic dynamic which, statistically, will exceed the maximum margin. And then you'll have 50% that'll be well below the maximum margin. This is found in individual company data. Then, if we want to carry out the check, we must then check the contract of employment by contract of employment by seeing who had a contract of employment on date T and who had a contract of employment on date T-1 and control the increase of wages by contract of employment. I fear that if we want to do this systematically, half of the population will have to devote themselves to it. The second point: why is it in the law? I think the mechanism of the law, through a whole series of elements – and that is the logic of collective bargaining – is to let the social partners do the police themselves. Do the police themselves, i.e. respect the agreements they have concluded between them. The social partners are representative organisations, because they are responsible and are committed to their constituents. As I said for the scales, there are elements of solidarity. It is up to the interlocutors to manage them. There's a stick behind the door if they have recalcitrant limbs. We can still see what's going on on a legal basis. That's how we can see the system. I've been involved in some discussions. Wills were expressed for a systematic system, but in the face of its cost, we quickly disappointed. That's what this control is about. As far as the quantification of wage subsidies is concerned, I will be unable to tell you by heart, but I refer you to our website. Each year, we publish a briefing note that includes all data on contribution reductions and salary subsidies. Again, this question refers – as an economist and as a member of the secretariat... In relation to the discussions between the social partners, the question is what we want to do with wage subsidies or reductions in contributions, on the other hand. It is an instrument in the hands of the State, which can have different objectives: employment or competitiveness. The employment objective is targeted at particular populations. The objective of competitiveness is very broad and concerns all workers. This may also be aimed at increasing purchasing power, i.e. reducing spending and increasing taxes on the one hand and reducing contributions on the other, so as to create the margin to increase wages. These are political choices. The only thing I can see since the beginning of the fall in contributions in the 2000s is the holding of a discussion within the social partners and in the political world on the objective of reductions in contributions and wage subsidies. Until this has been decided, your questions will continue to be asked and discussions between the social partners will continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic563x.u28	It is true that the discussion with the social partners was always very complex on reductions in contributions, wage subsidies, etc. There is a sharp decrease, since one makes a choice within the framework...A group of experts submitted a report in 2013, which did not reach the unanimous opinion of the Council of Ministers, moreover. We've talked a lot about it, but we haven't reached an agreement. There, I believe, the bill even breaks down. The possibility is reduced, and the social partners are being deprived of some of the benefits of interprofessional discussions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic563x.u29	So indeed, the bill as it stands, and it has decided that, in any case as regards the tax shift, and as far as I remember correctly, half of the reductions in future contributions will be for competitiveness, and that all wage subsidies will be for competitiveness. That's absolutely correct.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic563x.u30	Are we not even going further by excluding certain interventions? I may be talking nonsense, but I'm thinking, memory, intervention for night and shift work. Wasn't that part of the possible discussion of wage subsidies at some point? If I am not mistaken, I think that is part of the scope of the exclusions of subsidies.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic563x.u31	To be clear about this, the statistics on which we rely are national accounts statistics. The national accounts define the reductions in contributions which are normally taken into account in the wage bill as the reductions in contributions which concern all workers. This is a very old definition of Eurostat, but which Belgium had never applied, and which it has applied for about two years, I think. It seems to me that's what you're referring to. There is a package of reductions in contributions that have in the meantime become wage subsidies. From the moment it is said that wage subsidies are excluded, you do have that effect, since there are a series of reductions in contributions which are targeted, but which, in terms of national accounts, are wage subsidies.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic563x.u32	If I look at the year 2014, it can be considered that all the wage cuts and subsidies form an overall mass approaching EUR 13 billion. If I look at what the bill is proposing, I think that of this global mass, in any case, there are only four billion maximum subsidies and reductions. Am I wrong when I say that? You wouldn't dare say it!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic563x.u33	By heart the numbers, it's going to be complicated.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic563x.u34	These are proportions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic563x.u35	You can find all this in the detail of the note that will soon be on the Council's website. What I wanted to add is that it is really a matter of political choice. What is the objective of a political instrument? Very often, we are asked to evaluate policies. The first thing we do is look at the explanatory statement and see the law. I very often challenge you to find out what the purpose of a law is. Of course, it is very difficult to assess the law. As an economist, I can only say that if we do economic policy, we must at least define the objective. Either the social partners define it or the governments define it. At some point, we have to define it. Indeed, now the government has defined it. And we end up with the law as it is.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic563x.u36	Mr Clarinval points out that we consider the arrangements relating to workable work to be far too individual and that employers consider them to be far too collective. I hear the stories that one can choose oneself when one starts to work a little more and when one starts to work a little less. I want to see in the field which employer will allow me to work more if I feel like it, if the employer is not a asking party. In the other direction, too, if I want to take care of my children, my wife or my mother at some point and therefore want to work a little less, but there are economic, perhaps justified, questions on the ground, then the employer will say to me that that is not possible. So that voluntary nature is not a voluntary one. For a certain category of strong workers there will be voluntaryness, but the majority of employees will depend on the will of the chief or employer. The smaller the company, the less syndicated presence, the greater the pressure the chief will have on the employee. I just wanted to say that. It is true that a distinction is made in terms of training. I am very pleased that UNIZO once again welcomes the fact that training is a very important thing in the career of workers, including to be able to participate in a longer career, but UNIZO has ensured that companies with fewer than 10 employees fall out. UNIZO has also ensured that an adapted system exists for companies with 10 to 20 employees. Don't get me wrong: a company of 10 employees cannot be compared with one of 1 000 employees. However, falling out or falling in is also hard about it. So if we want to work together to ensure that employees can meet tomorrow's challenges, it is our intention to start a plan of form from day one, not at the time when someone is 45 or 55 years old, but from the day he starts, at any age. We also know, of course, that the better employers are happy to say that the majority are making sure that people are trained, because they have every interest in being able to go with them today, but also tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. Of course, the trade unions will have to watch it happen and welcome it, but we also have to build up borders so that employers who take it less closely are also pressured to give people opportunities. This already exists in certain sectors. Let me give you the example of Joint Committee 200, the supplementary joint committee of the servants. That is about almost 300 000 employees, if I am not mistaken. A system has been agreed between employers and employees in which an individual right to training can be sought. It exists. Such an arrangement is therefore workable. Why, then, can we not continue to do so in the various sectors? We really are not a asking party and the workers are even less interested in de facto leaving people on school banks or educational banks against their will and without perspective. That is not the point, but at least give individual people the chance to ensure that they are with us. I would like to stress in abundance that, in general terms, we see that the training budget goes to a certain category of employees. The high skills in our view have almost no lack of education and training opportunities, but for the people who really need it, the lower skills, we really see a problem. Those people aren't gonna get back to work. As one gets older, the return on investment is also measured, also in the context of the formation. We think education is important. We need to focus more on this. Mrs Kitir, as far as part-time work is concerned, I said in my speech that there was no interprofessional agreement at the time. At that time, however, we tried with the social partners to solve a number of difficult issues, including flexibility and youth pay. There was a certain sheet, four, about flexibilisation, especially of part-time work and glide time. Unfortunately, we did not reach a solution at the time. We have gone a long way in the discussions, but now we come back to the subject. It is regrettable, because we would prefer to control it ourselves, so that we can proceed with it. I hope that, in the context of the implementation of this legislation, we will also be able to work part-time and slide together, especially in the sectors and businesses, but I also hope that interprofessionally, the beacons will be well established. We have every interest in defining these matters. Mrs Kitir also had a question about e-commerce. Indeed, from some sectors it has been very loudly called out that it was necessary and that we had already missed the train. In all honesty, we see that other countries, not to mention the Netherlands, have taken a lead in this. On the other hand, I also see that the way people are paid there and that the flexibility that people are expected to have there are against or over the limit. From our professional federations there have been contacts with the sectors, with the employers' federations, in which a framework has been agreed. Mr President, I have two questions, no longer, about this framework agreement to reach agreements. We have succeeded in one of the two cases. Maybe there's been more, but I don't think so. Maybe there were three, but definitely not anymore. However, the same employers' federation than the asking party is not only to limit this to their federation, that we should open it more widely and that we should put the trade union consultation aside once more. Yes, it defies all imagination, but it is reality. It is therefore important that we should be able to combine the two things: ensure that e-commerce can also provide employment within Belgium, and that this is also agreed on a sectoral basis and that there is more concrete business consultation. This has always been the case in Belgium, also in the context of the annualisation. We have made agreements in many sectors, we have made agreements in a multi-company agreement with the employer. We have defended this in our constituency, given that employees are convinced that a certain arrangement is useful and necessary for the future of their business, that it is also workable for them and that there is a certain amount of funding to it. Well, we'd like to keep that system. This draft law is much more difficult. Then I come to Mrs Fonck's comment. We regret the de facto opting for annualisation, i.e. per year. Frankly, we do not understand that, nor do our sectors. I believe that the sectors and businesses would also like to have a chance, as was yesterday, to agree on other deadlines. We know a lot of quarterly, six-monthly and nine-monthly systems; so we do not have to work de facto per year. However, so be it, as it is now formulated. With regard to career savings, Mrs. Fonck is absolutely right. That's why we're glad we're getting more time. The first approach was that this should be agreed in particular in sectors. We believe that sectors should be encouraged, but that we should make an interprofessional framework, if only on transferability, for example. If I am fired from one company or one sector or leave myself and I go to the other sector, there should be guarantees about that. We also need to frame a certain playing field, without already making it too small. It is the challenge for employers and employees to develop this framework in the very short term. It was kind of the same with telework. We've had several meetings on that. In all honesty, it is our perception that a regulation in this area has come up against the employers' veto, because the question was that in the companies without a works council but where we are engaged in a trade union, such as in other areas of social legislation, we should have the competence in this matter in the hands of the committee and, if one does not have a committee, in the hands of the syndicated delegation. So there should not be such consultation everywhere, just in those areas where we are a syndicate, if we are to have that consultation at least. So far we have descended, we have not succeeded. Unfortunately, it was also stated in the draft law, then the general rule applies, which does not always please us, but so be it. Mr Van Hees, you asked a question to which you yourself have already given the answer. Of course, Mrs Stevens has made this quite clear, in the context of flexibility, even if it fits in with worker flexibility, if it is a real worker flexibility, then that gives the worker opportunities. I'm not saying that this should be unbridled, but that would give the employee opportunities. Of course, if an employee can only accept volunteering if his boss is okay with it, it's not voluntary. In this way, as you pointed out earlier, we can naturally have effects that flexibility works against the worker and that people are going to work more stressedly, that one is less likely to be able to fill in those moments that one has to be with his children, wife or husband or parents. Are there only good effects? Of course not. That's obvious. It is also apparent from the criticisms. I did not want to formulate them earlier, because I assumed that you read the opinion, including the part in which we, as syndicates, have done our part. But there is also what you heard on the street at the time we had demonstrations, which was also about that, I think that was clear. Mr President, then there were two questions from yourself about young people. In my speech, I very much welcomed the fact that we have time to look for alternatives. It is a short period of time, if I am not mistaken, we have until 31 March. Here too, we can take the example we had in the sectors. In the sectors, several millions are released every two years to specifically target youth jobs. But sectors need to be registered, sector-specific and business-specific, how to eliminate the thresholds for recruiting young people. That's the methodology. We believe that if a sector such as Agoria says that they want to provide measures, for example, for 300 additional recruitments of young people, that will bring more than 20 million. Secondly, there are thresholds, let us talk about them, let us see to what extent young people can be targeted, and then it is again usually people who have their talents in their hands and not so much between their ears, and that productivity loss that employers indicate and that there will be at the beginning of the career. That is how we propose a rist, which I will not go over in this period of time, but we do have ideas about it. We have not yet had a chance to discuss this with the employers, but we are certainly going to do so. To conclude, your question: what if the Council of State doesn't comment on it? I should almost like to ask a question back: have we ever received rulings from higher legal units based on the non-remarking of the Council of State? I think this is. It is not because the Council of State does not make any comments, that it will pass the review. I didn't say she wouldn't go through with it either, I just asked the question to at least think about it. It would be awesome if we actually got into a legal mess and then finally Belgium, not only the government but also Belgium, would be exposed with the buttocks. We're not buying anything for that in that global world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic563x.u37	Mrs Ulens, do you have anything to add?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic563x.u38	The question was asked: how can we move 0.1% to the labour cost handicap instead of the more than 10% of employers? This is based on a report from the CRB of 2015. Now you need to know, as Mr Denayer said: it is only a matter of how we look at the figure. We look at the glass half full, in the sense that over a period of ten years we see productivity rising from 100 to 118 and then we see, unfortunately, that wages increase by 112 over the same period. Why do I say half full? Because then there's a possibility. It is also the workers who ensure that productivity is very high in our country. Then we think that there should also be a piece of cake for employees in jobs and in purchasing power. In the last ten years we have seen that this is not the case. On the contrary, the share of wages has been greatly reduced. If I'm not mistaken, it even dropped below 60 %. At the same time, dividends have increased very high over a similar period. So where did all that money go? To the distribution of dividends. And you can't do that. That is why we are reacting so strongly to the fact that the link to productivity in Belgium is no longer being taken into account. I would also like to say that if you look at the figures, and then I would advise everyone to look at our socio-economic barometer, the envelope of reduction in employers' contributions and wage subsidies has actually almost almost been paid out to net dividends. Then we think, "That's not fair." That is why the workers and our members say that we do have a problem with this. It is therefore a good thing that we have now tried to reach a draft agreement for the next two years. We still have to see if it's accepted by our union. When we talk about competitiveness, and this is something to which I attach great importance because I have given training in the past, it must be acknowledged that training does not involve wage costs. Training is an investment in staff. Formation is an investment, such as companies investing in materials. Formation is something that benefits businesses. Instead of reasoning in the short term: this will cost more, one needs to invest more in the workers. It also improves the workforce. We want workers to be more agile in the 21st century. That's what the other bill is about. However, it is important to ensure that they are educated and that they grow, and to ensure that they are able to increase the productivity of businesses. The question was asked: is it possible to organize this? Yeah, that's possible. This is possible if one looks at training as a means of investing in the company, in the employee, and thus in productivity. We at the ABVV want the employees to share in that productivity story and that the benefits do not go to dividends alone. Then there was the general question: what about agile and workable work? For us, the draft law is unbalanced. Why? I hear criticism from both employers and employees. You should read that text and see what is really in it for the workers. More flexibility. Can anyone do that? Does that suit everyone? Does everyone really have a chance to take advantage of that, as an individual? We don't mean it. We still stand for collective bargaining. That was the second major comment we made on this draft law on manoeuvrable and workable work. Even if we have been able to make improvements through trade union action and the like, for example by keeping the information period for part-time work at 5 days, it is necessary that the work is workable on the ground. If this government decides to make people work longer, then it is necessary that they do not die before they are 67 years old. Let us make sure that the time spent on working life is sustainable, viable and added value means that one can express oneself fully in it, and that one is also respected. For years, we have had the experience that this can be done better by collective bargaining than by putting pressure on the individuals on the ground. Finally, if there is any concern about education, agreements must be made on a sector-by-sector basis. That is also a level of social dialogue. So let every level of social dialogue have its chance. That's what I was gonna say. I have already said something about part-time work in my introduction. It is believed that part-time work is a free choice. It usually isn't. Think of sectors such as trade and cleaning. Throughout the legislative initiatives that have taken place in recent months, people are led to have multiple jobs. Try doing two different jobs with two different employers. That is not feasible. This is certainly not feasible and can be organised in the case of single people, men and women, with children. If you do not want to squeeze the lemon any more, then this draft law is not going in the right direction. That's our union's opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic563x.u39	Mr President, thank you. Some elements of reaction: I think that one of the heart of the discussion lies in the elements of training. In the new system, we are moving from a system in which 1.9% of the wage bill, representing a training effort for all companies, to a system in which we start a minimum of two days of training for a number of workers, knowing that, as Mathieu Verjans pointed out, companies with fewer than ten workers per head and those between ten and twenty FTEs are not involved or are in some way involved. We are therefore in a system that gives the impression of reversing, knowing fortunately (and I pointed out in my speech) that the sectoral level is indeed a hope as to the solutions to be put in place in the sense that a number of sectors have set up sectoral funds, have consolidated training, have opened up rights for workers so that they can benefit from training and that this is probably one of the levels by which there can be the greatest equality in access to training. This is because one of the problems highlighted by the social partners in one of their old interprofessional agreements is the distribution of the training effort. Indeed, in the distribution of training effort, the level of qualification has an impact as well as age. When the two are combined, one wonders whether, in a number of situations, the training effort is not made for workers who, in any case, will leave the company to go elsewhere. There is a real question about this system of training effort. The last paradox is that as a trade union organisation we have always argued for an individual right for workers to activate a right to training for the reason that we find ourselves increasingly in the logic that lifelong employment becomes an exception and that the worker must also be in a position to evolve in society. Thus, this possibility of having a right to individual training allows this evolution. In this respect, the current system is far too weak. To answer the question asked by two of the members of this committee, there is no sanction provided for in the system. Sanctions may have been perfected previously, but today no sanctions are foreseen. So, if this is not put in place, there is no sanction. I come to the question raised by Mrs Fonck on flexible working hours, on the link between Article 20a and the Royal Decree of 10 February 1965 on management and confidence positions. In my view, there has been no discussion on this issue for a very long time, knowing that the European directive on working time has somewhat changed the concept in question. We no longer talk about leadership and trust, but about people with autonomous decision-making powers. That is where the problem arises. Indeed, adapting our system to this new definition has been a source of blockage and I think I can say that this issue has not been discussed in a number of years. But the link is interesting to make. With regard to the career savings account, IDEA Consult - the reference in parliamentary documents - conducted a study on the feasibility of this system. This is a relatively moderate approach. But if this is to work, the social partners must be given time to develop something. This possibility exists in the bill. With respect to the 100 overtime issue, such as Mr. Van Hees said, the answer is in the question. There is virtually no guarantee of volunteerism in the exercise of these 100 overtime hours, since the consequences of refusing to allow these overtime hours will be "delicate" in some companies. But we must not demonize either. A final element with regard to the 1996 Act. If we follow the logic of the bill on the fact that the results of the shift tax cannot be used for wage increases and that, therefore, the choice of competitiveness has been made, if we continue this logic to the end, the next question is why the reductions in social contributions that are the elements of the shift tax are reductions in social contributions that are granted in a linear way without necessarily any link to competitiveness. Perhaps this can have an impact on competitiveness but without any direct link to competitiveness or job creation. If we want to be consistent on the whole, if we consider that the result of the tax shift cannot be used for wage increases, it must be used for something else, but it certainly cannot be used for dividend increases. As Miranda Ulens pointed out, there has been a clear link since 1996 between changes in social security contributions reductions and changes in dividends awarded.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic563x.u40	Mrs. Coenegrachts, you did the presentation together. Perhaps you could do most of the work and supplement your fellow Members?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic563x.u41	Good. I shall begin with Mrs Kitir's question on the page 4. That question has already been more or less answered. It was about cancelation and simplification. In direct terms, the multi-hour credit was also included, because a system of more or less works with a fixed wage was provided for in the annualisation. Unfortunately, these talks have come to an end. A question was asked about e-commerce. In the meantime, we have all become used to the fact that we can sometimes be late in the evening after our work, as you can see now, from our seat, we will soon do our shopping online. We expect these messages to be delivered the next morning. This is a problem in Belgium, because night work is prohibited; that is the general rule. At present night work is partly possible, but the procedure for introducing night work is difficult because the three trade unions have to agree each time. Moreover, too often a high price has to be paid, which means that companies are no longer competitive. However, the presence of these companies is essential, because it is about jobs for the low-skilled, the jobs that are actually the most threatened, also by digitisation. So we all have an interest in creating employment in this sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic563x.u42	With my question, I didn't want to question that so much. I'm not blind to reality. In my questions I did not say that e-commerce is not necessary or that e-commerce would not create jobs. In my question, I meant the following. You say it was not possible, while a framework cao has made it possible. You spoke of certain blockades, and I don't know if that's what you meant when you said it wasn't possible. I don't understand that very well, because the framework cao allowed it. I therefore asked how many applications have already been made since the framework agreements were concluded and what blockades have prevented jobs from being created and that an agreement has been reached on e-commerce.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic563x.u43	I cannot give you any figures on this, because I do not have them at hand. In any case, we often hear the complaint that it is simply too expensive, because there will be too high a price to pay when the negotiations are started, and that it will simply not be competitive anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic563x.u44	So it's not because it's not possible, but because it's too expensive?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic563x.u45	It is too expensive to buy off this form of flexibility. Mrs Fonck's question on career savings was adequately answered. Then I come to Mr Van Hees' question about overtime and the risk that jobs would not be filled and that overtime would stand in the way of jobs. I would like to remind you of the principle of overtime. My colleague has just outlined how difficult it is to perform overtime in Belgium. If they are allowed to be performed, a surcharge of 50 % must be paid, or 100 % when they are performed on public holidays. The essential thing about overtime is to cope with unforeseen situations. There is no employer who will continue to double his wage bill in a permanent and structural manner. From the moment there is a structural deficit, that place is filled in. The overtime is therefore essentially for unforeseen circumstances. There was also a question about the plus-minus conto. That was only introduced at the time for the automobile industry and since there is not much left of the automotive industry, there will not have been many companies able to apply for it so far. In any case, a number of sectors have responded positively to the initiative. Now that it is made possible, they will be able to try to start the procedures.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic563x.u46	I just want to clear up one more misunderstanding. Mrs Ulens said where the disability figure of -0.2 % came from. This is the result of the CRB report, where the correction term is 0 or -0.1, because the handicap has become negative compared to 1996. On the basis of the expert report on competitiveness and employment, we also calculate not a historical but an absolute handicap. It is currently around 9,6%. The difference between them is precisely the level of disability in 1996. It was 9,8% at the time. In about twenty years we have first lost 5% of competitiveness. Now we have about recovered it in five years and we are once again faced with a similar labour cost problem as in 1996. Mrs Fonck's question: does it still make sense to talk about "historical disability"? Of course, the term "historical" gives the impression that it is something archaic and not very important, dating back 20 years. In fact, it is still very real: one hour's work in Belgium costs 43 euros, while it costs 39 in neighbouring countries. So it's not "historical, but absolutely real. This handicap still exists and poses difficulties for our companies, which already have very high quality and very innovative products. In these circumstances, while 10% more expensive in production costs, it remains difficult to participate in international competition. One last point. We are not talking about the Chinese, but about the three neighbouring countries – to be absolutely clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic563x.u47	The three neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic563x.u48	Yes. Finally, with regard to dividends and reductions in contributions, I would still like to say that, over the past two years, 84,000 jobs have been created in the private sector, or about 1.5% of job growth in the private sector. This is the same level of growth as the economy. This has never been the case: employment growth is at exactly the same level as economic growth. This is due to one thing: wage moderation, which certainly has an effect and leads to job creation in the private sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic563x.u49	I would like answers to a number of questions about education. Indeed, SMEs up to 10 employees are excluded from the provisions of the draft law as regards training. A specific regime will be defined for SME debt securities of 10 to 20 employees. This does not, of course, mean that there is no training in those SMEs. On the contrary, in these companies very often very intensive informal training is given. It's almost an on-the-job training. I suggest you visit your local baker, butcher or bistro. You will see that it is very difficult for those companies and entrepreneurs to find people who are trained for that job. If they find people who are willing to go along with it, it is necessary to give them heavy guidance. Those are employees who almost learn the job on the work floor. This is happening in very many SMEs. Does it then make sense to register, pass on, keep track of and formulate rights? No, there's absolutely no point. If these entrepreneurs had all the time in the world to register all these things, one would find that in reality one is far above five days of education. In practice, SMEs will be covered by a large number of sectors, as they do today. They are therefore not completely deprived of provisions on training. We think education is very important. I heard Miranda say that formation is essential, such as raw materials or materials. For us, that is just an argument to say that it is really not up to the government to impose what sectors and companies should do in that respect. It's just du bon sens to invest in that. Companies will not act against their own interests. I am very much praised for the rule of the number of days of training, which has been negotiated in a number of sectors. There it may be a good formula, but that does not mean that it is the right formula for all sectors and for all companies. The government must respect the diversity of education. The draft law does this to some extent, but it should have been a little more. The reference point of five days of training will guide a number of things in practice. There are very good examples, in sectors with well-functioning sector funds. Perhaps we should make adjustments to this. One final point: there is indeed no sanction in the draft law. Small nuance is that, as has just been said, there are a lot of sectors that apply. The non-compliance of a sector-cao as an employer has been sanctioned by a level 1 sanction, but in general the draft law does not provide for a sanction. We are very pleased with that. You should know that the training objective originally dates from an interprofessional agreement, the 1.9% standard. This was then an agreement between the social partners with the aim of giving a positive incentive to training. The sanction was not agreed at the time, but was added by the government and always contested. The experience of recent years has also shown that it does not work. It takes a great deal of effort and time to keep up with this in all companies in all sectors. What concrete efforts are often not recorded, which does not mean that it does not take place in practice. In the end, in addition to the fact that collective sanctioning is not allowed by the Constitutional Court, a purely individual sanction does not result in a sudden change of organisation at company level. At this point, sanctioning is as if a company is sanctioned that it has not provided sufficient raw materials or that certain processes have not been sufficiently implemented. That's bullshit.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic563x.u50	First of all, in the case of employers' groups, the French example was mentioned, where, in fact, about 36 000 jobs were created by groups of employers. There are therefore, in my opinion, very good avenues for reflection from which we can draw our inspiration from France. Of course, France is not Belgium, but it seems to me to be interesting, especially since one of the main points which led France to easily create groups of employers is precisely the fact that the administration is relatively simple, in terms of demand and approval. On the issue of the joint committee, between the social partners, that is what we called the "user pay" – it was in the current but soon outdated version of the law – that is, the wage policy that the group must pursue, when the members of the group come under a different joint committee. As I said, the group of employers is, in my opinion, solving a lot of questions. Of course, he doesn't solve them all. The existence of different Joint Committees is not solved by this. However, the landscape of the Joint Committees will, in the near future, be undergoing significant change. It is therefore likely that this issue will be resolved in one way or another at that time. To return very briefly to the question of training, I naturally associate myself with what Mrs Deiteren has just said. On training in SMEs, less than ten or between ten and twenty, it is in my view a good legislature to take account of the specific nature of small enterprises. A small business is not a large business that has failed or is not yet large or is no longer large. A small business is a small business that has its specific characteristics and it is essential to take them into account. On the other hand, I would point out that the UCM has recently conducted a study among its members which indicates 75.7% of SMEs consider training as an investment. Therefore, it would probably be a bit hypocritical to think that small businesses do not invest in training and, above all, do not consider training as an investment. Simply, they do not do so in the same way as larger companies. It is therefore normal to apply a special regime to them. With regard to the question of sanctions, it was gratifying that the idea of a sanctioning mechanism had been abandoned, in particular and in particular in the form of collective sanctions which had been provided for in the Intergenerational Solidarity Pact and which had been cancelled very recently by the Council of State, in particular at the request of the UCM. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic563x.u51	Mr President, I will be very brief. I just wanted to focus on two points. With regard to part-time work, especially when it comes to part-time contracts with variable working hours, I would like to remind you that some people sometimes have no choice but to focus on that type of employment. I challenge you all, and I understand that what I am about to say goes beyond the federal level, but it is a reality for people who are working to find a childcare facility that will allow changes to be made to the childcare scheme that will be arranged within five days. The flexibility in many childcare systems goes completely in the opposite direction and the proportion of variable or easy-to-change childcare hours is very limited. It is absolutely not easy to translate the flexibility that may be required from the employer into the flexible care that is needed, especially for the smallest children. I would also like to point out that children in primary school and even teenagers may also benefit from the presence of their parents during most of the time they are at home. We are still a little worried about that. We certainly welcome the principle that there is a five-day period. The Explanatory Memorandum to Article 56 of the draft law states, I quote: 'Unless otherwise agreed.' We are a little concerned about that. Although we would like to confirm immediately that we know that many employers do understand the sometimes difficult situation of their employees and that it may be possible to look at the whole situation with some confidence, we would like to know how individual workers, who are faced with a situation where they are expected to have some flexibility that is not compatible with their family responsibilities, can be protected. However, it would be difficult to establish that a draft law which has the ambition to provide employment for workers, at the end of the journey, if a worker is unable to meet flexibility due to the combination of work/family, offers very little protection. I have not been able to study the bill in detail either. If I am wrong about the protection of workers in such a situation, I am certainly open to it. I would also like to point out that it is not for me to set up a great defence on this point, but I would like to remind you that gender mainstreaming as a management technique is really a new technique that also conflicts with our Belgian administrative culture. I can recall that, in relation to the government's other ambitions in the field of gender mainstreaming, it is clear that there is a lot of movement. There are a lot of federal public services that officials have already taken part in gender mainstreaming training. I do not know how many members of the policy cells are normally entitled to training, but we suspect that very often they do not have the opportunity to take very many training courses. So we are very pleased that many policy cells have already followed gender mainstreaming training courses and that this government has also made formal commitments in this area. It is certainly a complex issue, but I think that this afternoon's hearing has also made it very clear that complexity does not have to be deterred, quite the contrary. When one strives for certain values or wants to achieve goals, the complexity of the matter will lead to a very well thought-out hypothesis being developed and to the establishment of mechanisms to protect the goals one seeks. I hope you will forgive me for speaking on the basis of my role in which gender equality in the labour market is also such an objective and value that, according to the Institute, deserves a complex analysis, sufficient administrative attention and adequate protection mechanisms.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic563x.u52	Does one of my fellow Members still feel called to speak?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic563x.u53	Mr President, is there a report from any organization that can give us the consequences of the work project that is feasible, manageable and everything we want, on productivity and well-being at work?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic563x.u54	I can't hear anyone formulate an answer, Mrs. Onkelinx. I'm sorry. I shall now conclude our work. I thank all the speakers for their insights.
