ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u1	President Jean-Marc Delizée: I now turn to the government for an update, Minister and Minister, both on last week's questions for which you may have additional elements of response and on the new developments that have taken place since Wednesday last week.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u2	Thank you, Mr. President. I am surprised that you did not mention it, but in this case where the questions were very numerous last week and many of them were very technical - with AFSCA, we listed more than 150 questions asked by parliamentarians - we sent the answers to the secretariat of the committee. It is not necessarily in practice but I thought, with the AFSCA, that given the breadth of technical questions, it was useful out of respect for Parliament to communicate these elements to you. It is true that they arrived here only late in the morning, but we wanted, given the day-to-day management of the problem, to communicate as many answers as possible to the questions asked. It wasn't easy. It was a colossal job. We did so. We did the best we could. I think that on the technical questions of last week you will be able to read the answers formulated by AFSCA. I hope that this will not again involve a round of procedural issues because we have been here for an hour. We offer you a state of affairs and what I see is that we are talking about audit, auditions. All right, but we wanted with Maggie De Block and with the Agency to keep you informed, as we have indicated, of the situation as it is. We have therefore made an effort with the Agency to also prepare a presentation that will allow you to measure the overall action taken by the Agency and the government on the fipronil issue. This still seems to me the most important element in terms of information to be communicated to you today. Of course, the Agency and we are prepared to answer your questions, but within a week some important actions have been taken and, out of respect for Parliament, we intend to provide you with all this information. This PowerPoint presentation represents a state of play, which I will present to you. Indeed, if vigilance continues, if tests continue, we can point out that we are gradually emerging from the fipronil crisis. As you know, the whole egg industry in our country concerns 266 farms, all of which have been tested. The tests will continue. What does that mean? Belgian eggs placed on the market are now guaranteed without fipronil. Following the discovery of fipronil thanks to the self-control system set up by AFSCA, Belgium was able to give the alarm, allowing other countries to use other tests on this product. 86 poultry farms were blocked and samples were taken from laying hens and breeding farms. Our top priority was to channel on farms that produce unprocessed eggs that are then delivered to consumers. Of the 50 farms still blocked last Friday, only 21. Eighteen of them are located in the north of the country and three in the south. From the beginning, 65 were released. Of these 21, only 15 are farms producing eggs for direct use by the consumer. In addition to its actions initiated as part of the investigation and concerning the farms suspected of having been in contact with the fraudsters (we announced it), the AFSCA began a monitoring phase as early as 4 August. Belgium has therefore been proactive in carrying out tests on 178 unsuspected farms. I repeat this because it is essential: all Belgian laying hens have been analysed. As a result of this supplementary survey, 7 additional farms were blocked even though the level of fipronil in eggs was very low and even below the European alert threshold. I recall and stress that as long as a farm does not have a proper test, it remains blocked, so that its eggs will not be injected into the market. The entire Belgian egg production industry has been tested and is now guaranteed without fipronil. It should be noted that we are the only ones at European level who have carried out cross-sectional tests on all farms. Let us remember that 18 European and at least 2 Asian countries are affected by this crisis. And, the list could still expand. The BFSA has also checked whether all measures to recall infected eggs or not to use were carried out by operators on the basis of traceability. Today we can say that the management of the incident has led to 600 controls. Only two violations were reported. The Agency will also present the results of a contamination history study. You will remember, Mr. Nollet, that we had an exchange of views on what I had called the eggs of the past. So we didn't show up about it either. We wanted – and I repeat again – to work in close proximity with the AFSCA officials through an exercise of transparency, including in relation to the eggs of the past, which has not been easy. It was not easy to find a number of samples. But they did their best to get back far enough. They will therefore have the opportunity to present to you the information gathered during their presentation. In the current state of affairs, all the tests carried out on the whole egg industry allow us to say that with the exception of one, all the results obtained on 266 holdings were below the European safety limit. But there was no question of stopping there; we had to go beyond it. A number of justified questions have been asked by parliamentarians. It was about going beyond the unprocessed egg. Thus, in addition to the egg tests, 13 analyses have already been carried out on egg products, manufactured during the period from June to July 2017 in breakers. Eleven results were found to be fully compliant. Only two samples had a measurable concentration: 0.0101. May I remind you that the MRL is 0.005. That is to say that they are not in conformity, but that the concentration remains very low. They are 70 times below the European security limit. As a precautionary measure, these two liquid egg products have been withdrawn from the market. The AFSCA will return to this aspect in its presentation. The meat of laying hens was also analysed as part of the monitoring. Thirty analyses were carried out. No trace of fipronil was found in the flesh. On the one hand, public health requirements must be taken into account, and on the other hand, those of a sector which obviously suffers from this shock. Therefore, the federal government needed to make arrangements. A meeting was held earlier with all representatives of the sector. I understand Parliament's willingness to have contacts with the sector, but you are aware that the government has been working to meet the needs of the sector in view of the situation that plagues the sector. I will let AFSCA go back to a very important point before addressing the issue of measures. Of course, there has been a problem with a test, the result of which has been higher than the European toxic value, and you will, Mr Diricks, come back to the way in which we have been able to make this point clear. On my proposal, we were able to bring together the Scientific Committee of the AFSCA, in order to give the useful explanation to Parliament today. We had committed ourselves to answering the question of laboratories. We must ensure that the Belgian labs recognised by the BFSA can be accredited. With the cooperation of Minister Kris Peeters, two labs were accredited. A fourth lab will soon be, too. In this way, we can put our dependence on abroad behind us in this respect. Following this clarification of the measures we have taken and the results we have achieved with regard to the establishment of these new laboratories, I would like to go back to the measures decided upon by our federal government, in collaboration with my colleague De Block and in consultation with the Prime Minister. As you said outside the majority/opposition divides, it is obvious that we must intervene as quickly as possible in favour of the sector. We have therefore identified ten measures. One making possible a plan for the payment of ONSS contributions, another to prevent late increases or interest from being applied in the case of late payment of employer contributions or VAT, in as flexible a way as possible for operators. Temporary unemployment is made possible by force majeure, not to mention the facilities relating to the amount and payment of social contributions by self-employed workers. Moreover, the possibility is given to SMEs, the independents to act collectively on the judicial level (class action). As far as bank credit is concerned, my colleague Jeholet is taking action on regional competences and has organised a number of meetings with the banking sector. For our part, we have made contacts aimed at obtaining credit adjustments for companies affected by the fipronil problem. The AFSCA is temporarily strengthened to give the local antennas the opportunity to engage in the service of the operators, to answer their questions, in particular on the time remaining before they can carry out further tests. These will allow the company to be released more quickly. The AFSCA has ensured that tests are speeded up, but it is in the hope that consistent results will emerge, giving these SMEs the opportunity to get back to work, not to stay on the line and to reactivate economically. The fact that the State, the government, is a civil party against the operators who committed the fraud is important. It's more than symbolic. It is of course a matter of being on the side of the victims, of weighing the weight of the state, of the government in the balance. We hope that justice will punish those fraudsters, who have not hesitated to expose the health of consumers on issues of personal enrichment and who have not hesitated to expose a whole sector socio-economically. But beyond the punishment that we hope will be heavy, we will have to make the fraudsters pay. Finally, it is important that the federal government is willing to compensate the sector affected by the fipronil problem. There were several leads. Earlier, we presented the sector with the choice we made. We were pleased to see that the area understood why the AFSCA Reserve Track had been preferred. We'll need a bill. We'll have to go as fast as possible. As you will know, we will also have to have the European visa. On an informal basis, Belgium has already notified the European Union of how we wish to support the sector. The aim will be to compensate for certain operational costs associated with the destruction of eggs and the cost of large sampling; to provide material assistance to operators through the AFSCA reserve. A flat-rate compensation for the loss of profits of these operators is also envisaged. If parliamentarians so wish, we shall return, Mr President, to this aspect. Of course, these measures were presented to the Task Force this morning. Nevertheless, I believe it is useful for parliamentarians to take note of the presentation prepared by the FASCO on the state of play, the situation today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u3	Minister, thank you. I come back to a very small element that you mentioned at the very beginning of your presentation, namely the document containing the 150 technical elements. In fact, the secretariat received it a few minutes before the start of the meeting. It has just been passed on to all colleagues, present last week and those present today. Would you like to add something, Madam Secretary?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u4	I will take the floor after the presentation of the facts and figures by the agency.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u5	I fear that the Minister has already mentioned some of the interesting things that we had included in the slides. I'll try to get over that a little faster. Of course, there is still a lot of interesting information that we can put forward. In the Agency's Advisory Committee, it is customary to draw up the presentation in the language other than the language in which the explanatory statement is given. First of all, I would like to come back to the role of the government and the companies, because there was a lot of discussion about this. The way in which controls are organised in Belgium and Europe is best represented in a pyramid form. At the highest level, there is the European DG SANTE, which lays down the rules. Food safety regulations cover about 99% of everything we do. Last time, it was said here that we had to change the rules, but these are European regulations, which we are applying. In addition to the European regulations and the decisions of the European Commission as a result of its tasks, there is the Belgian government, which is responsible for official controls, the implementation of legislation and communication. In the end, operators, who have to do first of all auto-checking at their level, are obliged to report results related to non-conformity and, thirdly, to carry out tasks related to traceability. It is precisely thanks to our focus on traceability that we can do our job quickly. The word audit just fell. You should know that DG SANTE, the Directorate-General responsible for the application of the general food law, is also coming to audit Belgium, like all other Member States. We get audits from the Commission on a very regular basis on how we work. It's been going on for years. For years now, audit teams from the European Commission have been coming up to see how we work and to ensure that we apply European legislation correctly. You can read all these audits, they have been published on DG SANTE's website and you will see that in general we score very well there. In a number of cases DG SANTE has put us forward as good practice. All this to tell you that we as an agency do not operate in a vacuum. We are working in a European framework and I shall come back to it regularly........................................................................................................................................................... That's a lot more than one audit. A second aspect I would like to emphasise is the fact that we have implemented quality systems in the agency. Those quality systems cover our entire operation. The quality systems cover on the one hand ISO 9001 our central services, our laboratories are ISO 17025 certified and our outdoor services are ISO 17020 certified. I think we are unique in Europe with an organisation that has chosen to be certified by independent third parties. This is already a second level of audits and certification of the Agency in the various areas where it operates. We specifically chose to introduce that certification because we know that implementing a quality system always helps you to do your job well. There was still some discussion about the way the agency organises its controls. I think it is important to realise that the Agency has a monitoring programme, which includes both inspections and analyses. We have a very dynamic system based on risk assessment and signal capture. We use different sources to feed our control program. Of course, if we have to do so many analyses under the legislation, we will do so. The Commission makes a number of recommendations to the Member States and we have implemented all those Commission recommendations in our monitoring programme. There are several committees that advise the Agency, both the Scientific Committee and the Advisory Committee. We take all this information with us when we draw up our monitoring programme. Of course, we take history into account and draw up our monitoring programme, also based on the results of previous years. For each of the substances we carry out a risk analysis. We look at the seriousness of the danger and the possible frequency of occurrence. I left out some technical slides, but if you're interested, I can explain how the control program works. Of course, there is also the expertise of the people. We have experts who have the important task of reviewing the monitoring programme annually. We not only collect information as an agency, we also consult with the FPS Health and the various sectors. We must, of course, take account of the Agency's budget and the capacities of our laboratories, external laboratories and staff. It is also good to realise that, when we are talking about auto-checking, this does not mean the delegation of controls from the companies. On the contrary, the BFSA has an official control program in which we also control the companies. The results of that monitoring programme shall be forwarded to the Commission each year. The auto-control system is a control system that companies themselves have to implement. This is based on a risk analysis, this time at the level of an operator. There is also a mandatory notification. I can say that this is a Belgian specialty. We have introduced this as a double check of what is happening. If the company does not notify, the laboratories carrying out the analyses will inform us of analyses that are not compliant. I think that we have an operative part here, a set of things that shows that we are organizing our work in a risk-based, rational and scientifically sound way, on the one hand. Secondly, we have made sure that there are systems within the companies that provide the guarantees for safe products. I don't think I should go into the product fipronil any further. In the meantime, everyone knows what fipronil is. However, I would like to point out that it was an illegal use in a product that was not included in the list. I think it is important that through the process, through the chronology that you have received, we are always not only going to be able to see if there is a danger to public health when we establish a non-conformity. We therefore go beyond merely establishing that a product contains certain levels above a certain MRL. It is true that we first worked internally. On the basis of data exchanges with NVWA, we looked at how they did it and how we did it. In the end, we have chosen, from the outset, to base ourselves on the European PRIMo model. But what is much more important is that the European Commission, through two RASFF messages, has established the way of working for all Member States. Both the measures we must take towards the eggs, towards the meat of the chickens and to the processed products. Once again, we are in a European context, we are applying European rules and we are applying the rules we have received from the European Commission. I would also like to explain why we have always discussed the European reference values, which are 0.72 mg per kg of egg and 0.77 mg per kg of meat. We have never used the term ARfD, because it is only one of the elements used to calculate the reference value. We combine the ArfD with the consumption data. In this case, and in principle, we fall back on the European PRIMo. In Europe, consumption data are collected everywhere. Since we work in a European market, we intend to take the sausage case in that model every time. In other words, the highest level of consumption is for adult people throughout Europe. We use this in our calculation to determine the European reference value. In addition, the Minister also referred to the Maximum Residu Limit, i.e. 0.005 milligrams per kilogram. As is customary in Europe, we have taken the measurement uncertainty with us. In this case, it is set at 50 % of the measured value. What is our current approach? The precautionary principle has often been mentioned here. When we have looked at the results, including the results obtained through the judicial investigation, we have not only looked at the possible short-term use. We have returned to all data until 1 January 2017. That is why we have blocked many companies, namely 86. We have based ourselves on a list that we received very late from the Dutch service company, on the information that has been made available to us by the investigating judge and on a third list, from a Belgian service company, which had meanwhile also come into sight. Our initial action was based on this very wide list of holdings and consisted of visiting, blocking the eirene for the time being, blocking the animals that were not allowed to leave for slaughter and taking samples of eggs and meat, with an analysis on fipronil. We have applied the precautionary principle. First we block everything, then we do analyses, and then we release companies on the basis of those analyses. Of course, we have not limited ourselves to measures at farm level. We also went to the breakers, which are important customers of eggs. There's a trace on that. We destroyed contaminated eggs that had arrived. Each breaker obviously had to do its own risk analysis to see if there were any products that could pose a problem. It has always been the intention to withdraw products that would be above the MRL from the market. The breakers have withdrawn the products that were not in conformity. As regards distribution, as stated at the previous meeting, operators inform their customers, who may inform their customers. The Agency shall monitor how it is implemented and whether the rules of the game are being followed. During our checks, we checked whether the eggs and egg products were effectively withdrawn from the market when they were found to be infected and whether the customers were notified. We checked on the scene. We also check that the customer was properly informed. We have checked whether all necessary measures have been taken. We need to find out who is ultimately responsible. Is it the one who didn't pass on the information or is it the one who got the information but didn't do anything with it? On 15 August we carried out more than 600 checks in the distribution, so on all that comes after the transformation. At present, two minutes of infringement have been drawn up. By-products which are waste products of animal origin shall be considered as Category 1 material, eggs and non-compliant animals. This is so laid down in European legislation. This means that these products must be destroyed. The Agency will issue a declaration of destruction for this purpose, but it is the operator who is obliged to organise the destruction and to provide proof of it. As regards manure, the regions were informed about the problems and the potential risk to the environment. It is ultimately the Regions that are responsible for the authorisation of what may happen to that manure. Let me deal with the problem of counter-analysis. We found that two counter analyses showed a significant deviation from the first result. Unfortunately, the values were indeed above the European reference values. We then did what we normally do and immediately started an investigation. The first conclusion from that study was that the results were reliable. On the basis of the results of the analysis it was necessary to decide whether a holding was compliant or not, and therefore whether or not a holding should be blocked and the eggs withdrawn from the market, there was no doubt. Those conclusions were correct. However, because we worked with estimated values in a number of cases, there was a problem. We then examined in the laboratory how that problem could be solved and a solution was found very quickly. We have, as the Minister has indicated, finally carried out a quadruple check. Three of Belac's auditors validated the analyses or methods. We also asked for advice from the Scientific Committee, which was also given. On top of all these actions, we've also re-analysed the samples. The results were comparable to the initial results. At such levels, small measurement uncertainty should always be taken into account, but the results were in line. The decisions we have made, based on a limited number of analyses, are those that have been correct. I would like to point out that there are now more than 7 000 analyses throughout the campaign. What are the additional actions? Those are the actions that were in the positions at the time of the previous sitting. We've taken action at the level of the breakers. We have taken action at the level of slaughterhouses. We've taken action at the level of the laying hens. We have asked the sector to take additional measures in the context of self-checking. We have not done so ourselves, but a number of people have also been concerned with increasing the capacity of laboratories. Interesting, I think, is what we found. Over a certain period of time, we have found analyses of a number of historical samples from an egg product manufacturer, which he himself carried out in the framework of his control. From this we can conclude that no traces of fipronil were found before September 2016. In September 2016, a very small trail of fipronil was found in one of 14 samples. Between October and December 2016, no traces of fipronil were found. During the period January-May 2017, traces of fipronil were recovered in 10 of the 35 samples. It should be noted that all these traces were well below the maximum residue limit. For the period May 2017-June 2017, 13 samples were analysed, in which there was a slight excess of the residue limit. As has already been said, we have organised traceability. We have also taken samples in the transformation: 38 samples of egg products, 30 samples of egg yolks, 3 samples of protein. Some were below the MRL, some were above the MRL but far below the level of risk. Of course, we have also taken the measures to remove these products from the market, just as we have done for all other products. In the slaughterhouse we have monitored the soup chickens. You should know that soup chickens are slaughtered in two Belgian slaughterhouses. Three lots are taken at random a day and all samples are in conformity. It is important that, in addition to the three filières, or in addition to the filières that we have examined in the context of the suspicious companies, we have set up monitoring not only of all the companies, but also of all the stables of those companies. We've examined 266 stables. Of these, 10 stables out of 7 companies are not compliant. They are all well below the European threshold for risk. These companies are being tracked just like the suspicious companies in the first series. This information is, of course, also transmitted to the court, which is very important information. As far as self-checking is concerned, we have asked the companies to ensure that laying hens and young mothers are taken into laying production only after appropriate analyses. That sounds pretty complicated, but what are we trying to do? A laying company is either compliant or cleaned up and ready to re-create. We will see to it that there is no contamination in the animals that go there, so that the game does not start again. The production of moults, which now produce little, is in principle not used. They may only restart if there are consistent analyses. Animals brought to the slaughterhouse must also be tested before slaughter. Because we are a European market, we ask operators to apply the same precaution to imports from third countries. We also ask the breakers and manufacturers of egg products to continue to examine the eggs landed and the egg products used as raw materials, which is obvious if we have a proper auto-control system. As far as analytical capacity is concerned, I will be brief. We have started from 60 analyses per 5 working days. July 25, they were scaled up with Nofalab. A number of laboratories were added on 7 August, and in the end there are eight laboratories today, which will undoubtedly offer us sufficient research capacity to support all the analyses that we have yet to undertake in the future. 86 poultry holdings were blocked, 48 of them laying hens. Now there are 21, of which 15 laying hens are blocked. Those we could release, we have released. The other are the companies where there is a problem and who first have to show that they can re-create properly before they can re-enter the market. During the monitoring we blocked 7 additional companies, recalled the eggs and removed the products from the market. As far as exports to third countries are concerned, we are exporting quite a lot to the Middle East and Africa, among others. We also export egg products. The most important thing is that we passed the messages through the embassies and gave answers to questions. Furthermore, there was the statement of our chief veterinary officer, who can provide the necessary information to third countries, i.e. outside the European Union. We have received specific questions concerning, among other things, tickets to Hong Kong, South Korea and Malaysia. The information was exchanged very quickly and Hong Kong informed us that its analyses of the products concerned were consistent. We can say at the moment that none of the third countries has notified us that it would issue an embargo on Belgian products. As regards the contacts with the surrounding countries, we have had contacts with the German BVL, via the chief veterinary officer. The Germans have sent someone to us, by the way, also to the Dutch to see how we have dealt with the matter. We have presented to these people the chronology that we have also presented to you. The German expert concluded that information cannot be provided if it is not available. We also got a contact from the Netherlands. It is clear that the wake-up call has been there because we have very regular consultations with the Dutch, I can even say daily. This is about very practical matters. They ask how we do it in the transformation, for example. They say it's a good way and they're gonna move on with us the same way. We have contacts with the French through the CVO, with my direct colleague in France who is competent, and we have agreed to keep each other constantly informed, also to ensure that we work in the same way in Europe. We have, of course, also had our Luxembourg colleague on the line. What the RASFF system, our famous RAS of July 20th is numbered 2017-1065. You should know that in the RAS system one works with an initial RAS and then the follow-ups come. August 16th at 4:00. There were 194 follow-ups, 94 we launched, 14 on the distribution of products and 10 requests for clarification from the other Member States. We have received 22 follow-up notifications ourselves, of course on products that have ended up in Belgium. 21 out of 22 came from the Dutch. I will be brief on this. We have a number of things on the website. We've been trying to communicate. We have published our documents on the evaluation and management of risk derivatives. A number of things have happened on the social media. We have developed an English website. The call center did get a lot of calls. Since 9 August 2017, there have been around 3,500 telephone contacts. I will also immediately give the information contained in the documents. We have a consumer hotline, which has been available for years. Consumers can answer any question they have. We have just increased the number of employees in the call center, in order to be able to respond to the increased number of calls. At the request of the Minister, we have also developed a specific contact point within the ULCs, which are the local control units. About 50 calls have been made in the various provinces. There have been a number of contacts with the Regions on organic farming and on dealing with animal by-products. The contacts were on both the Flemish and Walloon sides. It's not important to go into the details. However, it is important to draw some general conclusions. Firstly, this is clearly about fraud. Yes, you do. However, you should be aware that when such a crisis is tackled, it is not immediately apparent from the start of the investigation that fraud is involved. The chronology has made it clear that we first tried to find out what the hell was going on. A lot can be said about auto-checking. However, it is the global system that the Agency has put in place that has made it possible to expose the malicious practices. I do not need to remind you that several countries have been the victims. However, it is the Belgian system that has discovered the fraud. I would like to stress this once again. My colleague Dochy always says that we in Europe are a kind of informant or canary when it comes to detecting problems. I admit that we are a smaller country. However, we have a global view thanks to the global monitoring that we have set up. There was a lot of discussion about that 2nd June. Know that it is the system that we have put in place and the rigour with which we act when we find that mandatory reporting is not respected, have ensured that companies feel obliged to communicate any non-conformity to the Agency. I think that's an important message. We are sometimes accused of being too strict. But it is that system that allows us to actually detect fraud. The Agency's survey, the investigation of Justice and the Agency's follow-up actions have led to a clear view of this fraud. I think that the cooperation between the Agency and the Justice Department is particularly good. I know it is frustrating for many people that we are pointing out the secret of the investigation; but I can assure you that, if one wants to go after fraudsters, it is particularly important than letting the court do its job. I heard a politician say that once: 'I think this is important here too'. Our initiatives are Agency initiatives that have led to the cessation of illegal practices and removal of contaminated products from the market. We have been in contact with English colleagues. They're looking at it like this. You've been the first action to stop the supply to the market and then you've started cleaning up the business. I think this is a good summary. The companies have been released on the basis of the results and will not be released until they can demonstrate that their products are not contaminated. We have now put a great deal of time into the campaign and informing Parliament, but we are now going to a phase where we are at the end of the campaign. In the weeks ahead, we will see how the blocked companies can be released. I told you that we have a quality system. That quality system includes procedures that will allow us to carry out an internal evaluation after the action has been completed. This internal evaluation will, of course, lead to improvements in proposals. I would ask you to look at the dossier not only from the knowledge you have now, but also from the knowledge that the agency had at the time it took action. Looking back, with all the current knowledge, should also be possible taking into account the knowledge that the Agency had at the time it took action. I can say with certainty that, at any time in the chronology we have presented, we have taken all the necessary measures to protect public health. That's what you expect from the agency. I can assure you that we have honoured that commitment. President Jean-Marc Delizée: Thank you very much, Mr Diricks, for your comprehensive presentation. I assume you can e-mail the slides? They will therefore be available to the committee members.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u6	In the two languages.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u7	Thank you in advance for that. I suppose you're ready to take the floor now, Madam Secretary?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u8	Mr President, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall be brief. I would like to thank Mr Ducarme and Mr Diricks for the clear statement. We can see that many additional actions have been carried out and that they have all produced a reassuring result. Additional results indicate that public health has not been compromised, not by one egg or by one chicken, Mrs Dierick. Of all the companies which were further investigated and where the detection threshold of 0.005 milligrams per kilogram was exceeded, i.e. where very small residues were detected, the eggs were withdrawn from the market and destroyed. The meat of laying hens was also analysed in the slaughterhouses as part of a reinforced monitoring, which we had requested from the Federal Food Agency. The analyses carried out are all consistent. There was no fipronil found in the meat. That's very reassuring. It is now important to continue monitoring and to remain vigilant, but also to continue supporting the affected entrepreneurs and people and to reduce the pressure as much as possible. We must now give the affected people and entrepreneurs breathing space to overcome this crisis. The government has therefore taken a number of measures to support and support companies that are affected by this situation. With regard to social security, measures have been taken for a flexible social security payment plan for companies directly or indirectly affected by this crisis. The companies directly affected will be contacted individually by the National Social Security Office (NSS) on the basis of a list that the Federal Agency for Food Chain Security will provide to ONSS. Those indirectly affected by this situation can contact the National Social Security Office via the ONSS website by sending an email to plan@rszfgov.be. The ONSS will individually examine the situation of each company affected by the crisis and propose, if appropriate, a flexible payment plan for employers' contributions. We will thus alleviate some of the pressure on the independents concerned for the time being. The second part of the measures concerns the charging by the RSZ of contributions, storage and carry-over costs where the employer does not pay the contribution within the legal period. The affected companies will be fully or partially exempted from the increase and interest in the event of late payment of the employer's contribution if the preceding quarters were paid on time. Ladies and gentlemen, we know that these measures are necessary and that they must lead to the companies concerned being given a chance to overcome this setback. After 22 March, we proposed the same arrangements for companies affected by the attacks in Zaventem and Brussels. 207 companies, mainly from the Brussels-Capital Region, then applied to the RSZ. A flexible payment plan has been drawn up in 75% of cases. In 25% of cases a delay in payment was usually the solution. Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting of the task force this morning has led to a lot of positive reactions from the sector about how this government is tackling this egg crisis. Two things are important to this committee. Firstly, tackling the consequences of the infection of eggs with fipronil. Secondly, our public health has not been in danger. Once the problem was known, a long series of measures were taken to further safeguard our public health and to give the affected economic sector as much support as possible. The measures taken were, one by one, the right measures. That is also apparent from this statement. We cannot and will not be guided by panic-mongering or all kinds of claims based on any scientific evidence. Measuring is knowing. You've seen a lot of results now. They're all reassuring. I am open to your questions, but as far as I'm concerned, you can all eat a boiled egg tomorrow morning in all safety.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u9	Madam Minister, Mr Diricks, I would like once again to thank you for the information that has been given to us. Now is the time for the exchange of views. Who's asking for the floor in the meeting?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u10	Mr President, Mr and Madam Minister, Mr Diricks of the BFSA, thank you very much for your very comprehensive explanation. We will certainly look into the slides of the BFSA to record the operation even more. However, I can draw some conclusions. The system, including car checks and the BFSA, works. It works and I am sure that this government too has been very transparent and open to Parliament and the citizen. After last week's meeting, the storm around this crisis has settled quietly. I hope that all the political commotion, the political games and the circus that we experienced here last week will be a thing of the past. It was necessary to reduce the problems and the consequences to the right proportions. Some serenity is therefore in place here. We will not, of course, repeat last week's discussion. Some called for hearings. I would like to make it clear once again that sustainable production has nothing to do with this crisis. This crisis is a problem of fraud and malicious practices caused by some individuals who are merely looking for profit. Yes, everyone has the right to correct information, certainty and clarity, and that is what we are doing very well. We have all learned, I am sure, about doses, standards, danger zones and so on. The biggest victim in these cases remains the sector, the laying hens and whether or not your company was blocked, the damage remains large, larger, largest. The image and credibility of our companies and the sector has been severely damaged. It is true that it is wrong, because it was precisely that self-control that brought the whole thing to light. A plume for the sector, in these circumstances perhaps rather a cynical plume. It is important that both ministers and the director have stressed that the market is pure. There are no contaminated eggs on the market. Anyone can eat an egg freely. Nor is contaminated meat on the market. These are important messages for the laying hens and chicken sectors. What needs to be blocked is blocked and what can be released must be released as soon as possible. The market is controlled at home and abroad. We can't ask for more than that. I now come to my comments on the measures. The General Farmers' Syndicate and the Syndicate of the Flemish Poultry Farmers expressed their satisfaction with the government's approach to the problem. That may be said. I would like to thank the ministers, also Minister Peeters and our own Minister, Mr Van Overtveldt, for sitting with the sector and jointly presenting the sector with measures which will give it a little more breathing space. This sector alone will not survive the crisis. I also welcome the fact that the government itself will take the initiative to launch a class action and collect the necessary data for that purpose. I am counting on such a measure to be given a legislative framework in the law and to allow companies which are disadvantaged by other companies to agree to lodge a joint complaint, just as consumers are already able to do. That is a very fair question from our group. Fipronil contamination is a European problem. What is your position on this matter with the European Commission?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u11	Madam Chair, I would like to thank the Minister and the AFSCA representative for their clarification, presentation and clarification. I was not present last week, but I assure you that I was able to read carefully the minutes of the exchange of views held in the committees meeting. I must confess that I am being asked by certain information and dates. I know that I am not going to rewrite the story and that the first analyses showed a rate of fipronil below the permitted standards. However, since the serious health and food crises in Europe, I thought, perhaps naively, that if there are thresholds from which to measure the dangerousness of a product in the food chain, there is also a fundamental principle, the precautionary principle. Before talking about the fipronil threshold above which the product presents a danger to man, it is essential to remember that its use is simply prohibited in the farms that supply the food chain. We have been talking about a banned product since June 2 and the information will go crescendo throughout June. It took 20 July for Europe to be notified by the AFSCA and 24 July for the Minister for Agriculture and AFSCA to be alerted. This is a first misunderstanding. It took a big month and a half for AFSCA to communicate with the European Union and a few more days for ministers to be informed. As much as I read and read the AFSCA report and the minutes of the committees last week, I do not understand that, in the name of the precautionary principle, the AFSCA has not been more swift. I read in the speeches of Minister De Block that the first contact of the Health Cabinet was dated July 24, which Minister Borsus has only just been alerted, followed the procedure and warned his colleague in Health. The second contact took place on 31 July with Minister Ducrame's office. A week has passed, a new Walloon government is being set up and new plans are opening up for MM. Borsus and Ducrame. Another week goes by, the new government and the Libramont Fair are on their way. Mr. Ducrame, who had just taken up his duties, went to Libramont on Saturday 29 and discussed the subject with the boss of AFSCA. Only with the boss of the AFSCA? We have here the gratin of the agricultural world and we don't mention fipronil? It's a great mystery to me! I am not afraid of the expression and I fully understand the Germans' anger. I also understand the Dutch who did not appreciate the Belgian government's attempt to divert attention with "It's not us; it's them". The government tried to exonerate itself from its responsibilities by hiding behind the Dutch failings. The order of business was taken into consideration earlier. The lack of clarity persists in opposing Mr. Borsus' hearing and the transmission of the first report of the AFSCA. We've been reminded of the ins and outs of it. I'm not going to repeat myself, but if we don't do politics, we're still trying to play our role as parliamentarian, which is to check that the AFSCA has done its job well and that the government has lived up to the events. If, as Test-Achats rightly points out, in June the AFSCA issued the hypothesis of contamination via either the feeding of chickens or the elimination of red lice, how could it not then have worried about the extent of the problem? How could you not have had the reflex to launch a thorough investigation? And it is this nonchalance, or this appearance of nonchalance, that explains that we warn our European neighbours so late. It is also this slowness that allows hundreds of thousands of eggs to be distributed everywhere. We could see it thanks to the numbers presented in the PowerPoint. We will certainly not remain there, but we now have a series of questions to ask. Why isn't Mr. Peeters at your side? We could indeed look at the issue from the point of view of consumer protection. What information measures have been taken? When visiting the AFSCA website, one wonders about the readability and nature of the information transmitted. I will not go back to the corrections to the codes of the 2 identified lots that the consumer could bring back, made 24 hours after the first communication. The error is human, even if here it seems that there are successions of errors. Why has there not been, as in England, the dissemination of a list of potentially contaminated products? Is this not also the precautionary principle, unless AFSCA is certain that Belgium has been the only country where no problematic eggs have been used in the large food industry? In its last release, the AFSCA reported that all the results obtained indicated that there was no danger to public health. Is that to say that fipronil was found in other samples from farms that had not been controlled? Even if, according to the figures presented to us, the doses taken were not dangerous for man, we can wonder if we have found anything at all. As far as relations with the countries of the European Union are concerned, can you take stock of the crisis management protocols that have been adopted and of the status of your contacts, in particular with France, Holland and Germany? We know that you have almost daily contacts with Holland, that you have contacts with Germany and France, but what follow-up will be provided in the coming days and weeks? This brings me to the measures proposed and put forward by the government. It was obviously imperative to be on the sidelines of the sector, farmers who are victims of manipulators, fraudsters who do not hesitate to endanger public health and a sector as a whole to make profit. But, in our view, there are some urgent measures to be taken. Thus, it may be necessary, first of all, to consider reform of the AFSCA. I am thinking here of prevention of controls and communication. Indeed, what we know about the management of this crisis is sufficient proof that we have not been up to the challenge. However, nothing is included in the ten measures announced. On the other hand, contrary to what I have just heard, we must rethink our production methods and our controls. I would not like to make the irresponsible remarks of a certain Walloon minister, Mr Di Antonio, that we must consume locally and without AFSCA and that everything will be better in the best of the worlds. The issue needs to be revisited by thinking sustainable and biological and sustainable, as I said earlier at the start of my opening remarks. There is also a need to help the sector. The measures you propose go in the right direction, even if you put a lot of emphasis. I am thinking here of the bank credit measure. This federal proposal does not change anything. Indeed, in my opinion, the banks would have considered rescheduling credit without the consultation with the federal government. If the financial difficulties of the company in debt are temporary - and this is the case here - the effects of the fipronil crisis will not last for the long term. It is in the bank's interest to reschedule the credit to see the company survive and the banks fully repaid rather than risk seeing the company go bankrupt and not be repaid at all, not to mention losing a customer for his next credit. I still have two small remarks or questions. However, one may wonder why in the proposal for a total or partial exemption from increases and interest in the event of late payment of employer contributions, you put the condition "if previous quarters have been paid on time". This means that companies that were already in difficulty before the crisis, to the point of not being able to pay on time, and which are even more in difficulty with the fipronil crisis cannot be helped. I guess it's to avoid helping fraudsters, but I feel that the condition is not adequate. In the wake of this, we can finally ask ourselves whether the government has put the necessary conditions in place to prevent those responsible for the crisis, the violators. Except for measure 3, I do not see how they are excluded. They actually face a decrease in turnover (cancellations of orders, etc.) as reflected in government measures. On the other hand, the proposals on the extension of the action class and the compensation of affected companies are probably the most innovative. We want to greet them. I would also like to know more about the timetable.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u12	Madam President, I will speak later. First of all, my colleague Damien Thiéry will intervene.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u13	Mr. Chair, Madam Chair, Mrs. and Mr. Ministers, gentlemen of the AFSCA, one can of course only thank you for this extremely clear, extremely comprehensive statement, which also reflects the enormous work that has been done. The statements made in the press and the statements made by everyone show that, from the beginning, the situation has been under control. She's in good hands. I also note, following the presentation just made, that a lot of complementary actions are still under way. One thing to remember from the current situation is that, in the end, Belgian eggs are safe. It is a good idea, Madam Minister, to propose to everyone that they eat a good omelet tomorrow morning. Personally, I'll do it tonight. Because, of course, in some people's minds, there is a will to misinformation or in any case to scare the population from a scandal that they would probably have wanted more important. And when we incriminate the AFSCA even asking, if I understand correctly, for an audit in the future to know exactly what happened, I still wonder what more we are going to be able to tell us than we have seen and heard today and who has been carried out, undertaken and who will still be in the future! For me, however, there is a fundamental element: the declaration this afternoon in the Dutch Parliament by the Minister of Agriculture, who officially acknowledges that the light could never have been given on this matter at European level, if the AFSCA, had Belgium not first denounced the problem that we have been confronted with. With this request for a follow-up audit to determine if AFSCA has done its job, I am sorry to say that we are falling into demagogy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u14	You'll tell Minister Peeters.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u15	On the basis of all the information given today, I wonder to what extent the request for various additional hearings – while the problem, if not fully resolved, is well under control – would not be a matter of media entertainment. This allows some to furnish the news during the summer, known as holidays – it is well known that parliament is never on vacation. If the information given by some of our colleagues was totally objective, I could still understand it. I simply find that the population has been afraid and that the farmers and the farms have been harmed. I also note that despite this, the government has done quite an exceptional job, whether we want it or not. He took the leap and met the area. We have again had the proof following the information given by the ministers that the sector feels understood. Of course, we will have to shed all the light to make sure that producers are not involved and that they are simply the victims of the situation. We will have to continue to help them in order to return at least to a situation that allows them to function as before. In conclusion, I think that in the end, all the controls have been carried out. That has been said: the eggs are safe. The meat is safe. All derivatives are safe. I thank the Minister of Health for saying this afternoon that the health of our citizens has never been put at risk. That is what we must remember. For the rest, there was no trivialization. Some were just looking for the opposite. Some approaches have not been carried out quickly enough in the eyes of some. The interest of the parliamentary exercise that we are doing today is to see where we can still improve our response, that of the PSAB, that of the government. This reaction was exemplary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you very much to both ministers and to Mr Diricks for the very comprehensive explanation. Both last week and this week we received a lot of information and a lot of questions were answered. Last week there were a lot of analyses going on. On a systematic basis, we received more information through the media. It is very good that we have had an up-to-date state of affairs here in this committee today, which has answered a lot of questions. Last week we were mainly busy with the eggs. Afterwards, questions were asked about the chicken meat and the derived products. I am very pleased that the state of play shows that many analyses have been carried out and that all these analyses show that both the meat of laying hens and derived products are effectively safe. That is a very clear and important signal that is being given here. This is also important for the export of the meat from our laying hens. As has been said, exports to Africa and the Middle East are particularly important, with which good communication is made through the ambassadors. It is a good thing that there is a lot of information exchange. I would have liked to know what standards are being applied in these regions. It has already been announced that no tickets were returned. European rules are applied in the European Member States. What standards are used elsewhere to determine whether a product is safe or not? We've been given a lot of information. However, what I have not heard about, and what has been mentioned in the press, is the fact that the prohibited cleaning product with fipronil has also been sent to private individuals through veterinarians and animal clinics. For example, I learned in the press that the product Bite Control was sold to private individuals, as was the product Copper Boost, a kind of food supplement for chickens. Can we explain this a little more? I suspect that some individuals are now in doubt as to whether the eggs of their chicken are safe if they have purchased such a product. Has the BFSA carried out research on this? Does it have a view on which individuals own these products? Can information be given to these people on what to do now? The product can end up in the chicken itself. It is therefore advisable that these people are sufficiently informed. Therefore, I would have liked to have had some more information on this. Last week there was also discussion about the situation in the Netherlands. First, Belgium was pointed out by Germany and the Netherlands that we had not done our job well, but then came the message from Minister Ducarme that it had been known in the Netherlands for much longer. It was a cockfight, but I am very pleased that there are better contacts now and that there is a very good exchange of information between the different countries. The call from the European Commission was that there is a problem that extends to other countries. Then we should not play each other the blackbird, but reach out to each other and try to tackle this problem together. The European Commission has also announced that it intends to hold a meeting on this subject by the end of September at the latest. Is there any clarity as to when that meeting would take place? What position will Belgium take there? It would be good if you could inform us in good time. I don't think I'm gonna be able to elaborate on communication anymore. I did that last week. I repeat, however, that I regret that too little and too unclear communication has been made. They hid behind the ongoing judicial investigation, but I don't think that's a reason not to communicate. From Mr Diricks' power point, I note that there is already a call center, an instrument that has existed for years. I regret that if there is a possible crisis, this will not be put into the spotlight anymore. After all, there were many questions from concerned citizens and businesses. Couldn't one have communicated faster that this call center exists? There's been 3,500 calls. Surely that's proof that there was a need for information. That might be a point to take with you in the next crisis. We must act more quickly and communicate very transparently and quickly when there are questions about food safety. With regard to the judicial investigation, I would like to return to the timeline we received last week. We all know that this is a fraud case. Mr Diricks, you are right to say that the courts should then be allowed to do their job. The press said that a visitation didn't take place because there wasn't enough police available. That's also in the timeline we've been given. The visitation would continue on July 19th. Last week it escaped my attention that your report also stated that there would be too few police available. Then I started looking back into that timeline. I find it very strange that the BFSA has been aware of the non-compliant result since 2 June. All kinds of analyses have then been carried out, which I understand, of course. On July 14th, we contacted the Justice Department for a visitation order. A visitation is an inspection by employees of the BFSA. That's not as powerful as a search warrant. Sometimes the police are contacted because they enter the home. Further research is being carried out, which is good, but on 19 July they still wish to carry out this visit, while at the BFSA, on the basis of the analyses they already have, they already know that there is fraud. However, one still wants to do a visitation. Only then will one also inform the public. Didn't they inform the parquet too late? Wouldn't this have happened sooner? Why did anyone want to do that visitation? In the end, it didn't go through because of too little police force. This element is denied by the mayor. He says, "My men were at your disposal." It's not true that there's not enough police force. Those are two opposite versions. I'd like to know what's going on. Hasn't the visitation continued because of insufficient police force or is there another reason? Don't you think you've informed the courthouse too late? Wouldn't this have happened sooner? A final, not insignificant point is the measures to be taken to support the affected sector. I told you last week that there was a problem with the labs, that too few labs were accredited. I am very pleased that two additional accreditations have already been given. According to the information provided by Minister Ducarme, there may be additional accreditations. That's good news. The faster the results are inside, the faster companies can be unblocked and the smaller the damage. We must be absolutely committed to this. It is clear that the damage must be recovered from the fraudsters. It is very good that the federal government has already set itself up as a bourgeois party. Don't do that would be a very wrong signal. We are very pleased with the fact that a task force has also been called together with all relevant actors from different policy levels and together we are looking for measures to support the affected sector. Our mailbox is full of positive messages from this morning's meeting. The measures put forward by the federal government are welcomed by the actors concerned. That is proof that this federal government can act very forcefully. I can only call for the measures to be implemented quickly. It is good that they are there, but it must also be done quickly. If legislative initiatives are still to be taken to this end, priority must be given to this so that companies can quickly receive their compensation. It would be a good thing if all the information on the various measures were to go together to the companies so that they would not be sent from the cabinet to the wall, but would know in a very easy way what concessions they could get. An important point is, of course, exports. That is why we must work to ensure that our strong image of high quality and safe products is maintained. After all, we all know that breaking trust is happening very quickly, but that building trust is unfortunately a matter of years. It is therefore a good thing that Minister Schauvliege is releasing a budget to set up a foreign campaign in order to restore our image. However, it is also important that we restore confidence to our citizens in the poultry sector and in our eggs. Ladies and gentlemen, we can all contribute to this. After listening to the history, we can draw only one conclusion. That is that there has indeed been a crisis, which is now over. All further analyses have now shown that our products are indeed safe, both the meat of laying hens and the eggs and the derived products. They're all safe. So let us all spread that message as much as possible. Feel free to eat a Belgian egg.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the ministers and Mr Diricks of the BFSA for their very interesting analysis. Once again, we have received a great deal of information. In conjunction with the timeline we had last week, it gives us a very complete view of the problem, which was very quickly in good hands, as my colleague Mr Thiéry said. We can't go in overdrive. We must not go along with the voting. It was essential to check from the outset whether public health was in danger. You ended up with that, too, Mr Diricks. It was always your job to make sure that public health was not in danger. I am therefore pleased with the Minister last week and have once again stressed today that public health was not in danger at any time. It is also important to know that this is a fraud problem. It's not about unsafe food production. It's about fraud. That fraud just came to light through the auto-control system. When it comes to detecting problems and keeping our Belgian system under review of the European system, you paraphrased that Belgium is the canary bird in Europe, Mr Diricks. Minister, how can we ensure that an equally good system of self-checking is developed in the other Member States? That is an important element. Perhaps you could take it to the European Summit on 26 September. While we are sitting here, we can read in the Dutch media that the Minister has given an official answer in the House of Representatives. It officially states that the tip given to NVWA in November 2016 was not registered as a supervisory issue. All the answers given by the Minister in the Lower House show that without the action of the Belgians, fipronil would probably not have been used in the chicken stables of almost 150 Dutch companies. It is essential not only to make good agreements with the Netherlands, but also with all the Members of the European Parliament. In the light of what we have heard today, I think it is important to underline once again that the Dutch Minister admits that there was a problem and that it was not pointed out to us. So we could have taken action much earlier, but things turned out differently. I have a few other questions. When we talk about the damage that has been done, and it was underlined that there is no damage to public health, I think we can say that the damage is mainly for the sector, not only economic damage but also image damage and psychological damage. I think these are three elements on which we should dare to zoom in. Perhaps that is a Flemish story and that might be interesting for my colleague from Wallonia to take a closer look at it, but in Flanders there is a non-profit organisation for farmers at a crossroads on which poultry farmers can call to provide psychological and practical support if they so wish. I think that's important for psychological support. But if we look at economic support, you have just explained your ten-point plan; I think there are a lot of elements in that and hopefully a number of initiatives will be taken in the short term for the sector that can help them move forward. I also have a question about the European level. Following on from the fraud case that we know about here, perhaps we should ask ourselves whether we should not do any more work at European level on this kind of cross-border crime, which is, after all, what it is after all, and the fraudulent use of fipronil. I also have a question about bio. There's a lot of spatter today that bio-eggs are the healthy eggs. That implies the other eggs wouldn't be. I think you have shown today that that is not the case under any circumstances. I think it is important that you emphasise once again that bioproducts are not necessarily the safest products on the market but that we should take the overall package with us. We must ensure and ensure that no wrong information is sent to the consumer, which is detrimental to the sector. It has already been indicated by other members. I also mentioned it earlier. There's been an enormous amount of image damage. Mr Thiéry, today the Minister has asked us to eat eggs in the morning or tonight. I eat eggs all the time. However, Minister, your predecessor has already launched a campaign under the slogan: "Belgium: small country, great food". We may need to step up our efforts and make sure that the world knows that it is not just about great food but also about safe food. Today we can see from everything we have already heard that all Belgian eggs are safe and healthy and that we can eat them and just like them without any worries. The only thing we have to watch out for is that our cholesterol doesn't go up too brightly by eating it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u18	Madam President, I have three questions that I will put together. Mr President, I do not know what is going to happen, but I hear a lot of questions. I hope they're all noted for an answer. My question is threefold and is addressed to Mr Diricks of the Federal Agency for the Safety of the Food Chain. After all, my questions are due to the powerpoint presentation I saw. My first question concerns yesterday's committee at the Flemish level. During that committee, Minister of Agriculture Schauvlieg stated that the Flemish government did not receive information about everything related to the fipronil crisis until 31 July 2017, via the Flemish Land Society. Mr Diricks, the date of 31 July 2017 seems to me to be rather late. During the PowerPoint presentation I heard you mention that the interaction between the Regions and the federal level is extremely important and that it happened from the date of 7 August 2017. Knowing that there have only been contacts on 31 July 2017, I wonder how you will see improvement in that interaction in the future. The contacts between the Flemish minister and the Flemish level seem to me essential for a good policy in the future. A second question concerns the auto-checking system, to which you are grateful that a notification was received on 2 June 2017. That's very correct. The question is, however, what are you doing or what sanctions exist against companies that do not take it very closely with the auto-control. After all, a company knows that when it makes such a statement, there are many consequences for the company as well. So what is the sanctioning system imposed by the BFSA in this respect for companies that have not done the auto-checking at times when they should have done so? A third question concerns what you explained in the power point. You have repeated a number of times that you follow all the European rules and always do what Europe requires you to do. Is it true that, on 2 June, when you inform the public about problems with fipronil, you can wait six weeks, namely until 20 July, to inform Europe? Are you getting six weeks from Europe? Do you get any longer to inform your own minister? Those are my three questions I hope to get answers to.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u19	Based on your findings, you tell us that the system worked well. I can't agree with you. How do you explain that such a product (the Dega-16, marketing name) whose industry boasts the miracle efficiency, can be marketed in Belgium for months without the system of control whose merits you so much boast is aware of the ingredients and content of this product and without the fact that... [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u20	Yes, it may upset you and I can understand it. This is a very important question: how, in our system of protection, has such a product been able to enter the market and be marketed for months? Another product could therefore be marketed tomorrow as well. You're saying it's because of your control system... Let's go back to the document you released last week. It's not because of your control system, it's because of chance. It is because by chance an operator has, for once, requested a German laboratory that fipronil was discovered! Without that, we wouldn't know! We wouldn't be anywhere yet. Here, as in the Netherlands and as elsewhere probably! To say today that it's thanks to your control system, it's huge, obviously! It is on this argument that you rely on it to say that there is nothing to change. Explain to us how the Dega-16 got its approval to be broadcast on the market! [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u21	Oh, it's not you! It's easy. It's not AFSCA! Indeed, it is not the Agency. It's the Health FPS. But explain to us, minister, how the Dega-16 obtained its approval to be placed on the market? When? What test was carried out? What did you see back then? It's not AFSCA, she says; she washes her hands by saying that she's not responsible, that it's FPS Santé. I'm asking the government. How does the government explain that the Dega-16 could have been used for months? If I read the contents of your documents well, where I was able to find a specific date, you already have a very first trace of fipronil in September 2016. This means that at least at that time it is being used, but I guess now that the investigation is under way, you have more information as just ask the operators: "When did you spray your facilities with the Dega-16?" We still don't have that information. We still don't have an answer to that question. The question ahead of this is how and who approved the Dega-16. I wish we could get an answer. I didn't hear any elements related to it in the mouth of AFSCA - but I knew she would wash her hands by saying, "It's not us; it's the Health FPS." - neither in the mouth of Minister Ducrame nor in the mouth of the Minister of Health. My first question concerns this control of the Dega-16, its validation, its approval. Who agreed that this product will come to our market? What is in the system that did not work from this point of view? What will be put in place in the future to prevent other products (Dega 17, Dega 18, Dega 20, whatever) from having elements that are not legal in Belgium? The second dimension of my intervention concerns the scope and extent of the damage. Mr Minister, you say that from now on, the entire industry has been tested, that all the installations have been tested. I guess from there, you have a clear vision, both of the historical perimeter and of the geographical perimeter. First on the historical perimeter: today, we have an element: September 2016 first traces recorded. Are you now certain that there is nothing before September 2016? I am prepared to take this information, but I ask for a confirmation in hindsight, since you now have all the necessary information. Can we say that the very beginning of history dates back to September 2016? I recall that the invoice dates from May 2016 but it is a company that will then mix the fipronil into what will become the Dega-16. This concerns the historical setback. The eggs have therefore been contaminated or potentially contaminated since September 2016 if we take into account the elements presented today by the AFSCA and if we are confirmed that there is nothing before that date. However, our gaze on the perimeter and scope must not be limited to a historical perspective, but must also have a geographical dimension. What is the extent, the dispersion, of the use of the product? My first question, even if it may surprise you, will not concern fipronil. I have reviewed the notification sent on 20 July to Europe and the countries potentially concerned. I am not referring here to the notification of the 6th to which I will return later. On the 20th, you point out in the European system that there is potentially a risk with fipronil but also with amitraz. At this stage, this second product has never been mentioned. However, you have reported it to Europe. I want to know what's going on with this part of the problem. Have you been able to completely exclude any risk, any danger, or is there a problem for amitraz alongside the fipronil problem? That is what you pointed out to Europe on 20 July and which, in the European system, is still identified as potentially problematic. In the same context, our French neighbours reported that 196 000 eggs in dispute had been distributed to their homes in April. Mr Ducrame, you have reacted by means of the press and you have expressed your astonishment about this information. It is extremely important to make clarity today, to see if all the elements of the problem are under control. What exactly is the situation? Do you maintain that your French colleague is wrong or is not sufficiently precise? I assume your criticism is not about the volume, that is, the 196 000 eggs, but about the date of April, which poses other problems. Do you have another version? I would like you to elaborate on this. As far as the scope is concerned, a week ago, you stated in committee, as you did on the radio, that all the eggs on the Belgian market were under control, that the potentially dangerous eggs had been removed from the shops. In other words, a week ago, according to you, everything was under control and all the potentially affected facilities had been verified. But your further and broader analysis shows seven farms that were considered non-suspect, which means that the information given last week was not correct, was not complete. You say, again, today, that everything is under control, but you said the same thing last week. However, since then, you have found that seven farms are not suspicious but problematic. I would like to have an explanation of why these farms which may not have used fipronil are, today, considered problematic. I'm talking about the seven unsuspecting farms last week. Beyond the figure on which you provided information, I would like to have an explanation of the cause. Did this happen as for the others? But, in this case, why were they considered non-suspects? If they have not used Dega-16 or a similar product, why is it now considered suspicious? If this is not the case, is there a risk that farms that did not use the Dega-16 may have been indirectly affected by the fipronil? I don't know how, but I'm asking the question. Our colleague has already asked the question about the scope of the contamination. Information, published on 11 August in Gazet van Antwerpen in particular, indicated the presence of fipronil in individuals via veterinarians. I would have liked to ask the same question and to have some clarification on this point. Unless I have carefully noted everything in your presentation, this problem has not been raised. I'm going to the derivatives, everything that's made of eggs. You have found two non-compliant at this stage and say that everything has been checked. I assume – Mr Ducarme already says yes – that you will not find any more tomorrow. I take note. I wonder, however, because the survey and the tests carried out on the derivatives were carried out on laid eggs, if I noted correctly, in June, July and August – but in August everything is under control. What about the eggs laid before June, the eggs of the past, as you called them, Mr. Ducrame? Are they potentially found in derivatives? In this regard, I do not know whether I should address the Minister of Health or Minister Ducrame or even Minister Peeters. But tell us why France is drawing up a list of dangerous derivatives, which are removed from the market! Yes, Mr. Ducrame! France has published the list. I have in front of me a list of about fifteen products, mainly waffles, mini waffles, etc., that are publicly reported to all consumers, products that are potentially found in our home. In England, the list extends to salads, sandwiches, mayonnaise, potatoes for babies, spinach... But in Belgium, no! It's all right! Give us the guarantee that in a week or two, you won't have to come back here to tell us what I just said. In Belgium, not only do consumers not have the information. We just know there's two lists, but we don't know what they are. Where is this equivalent list? In addition, the products are not removed from the stores! Why are we facing such a difference? The consumer hardly understands that France is publishing this list today, that Britain did it yesterday, whereas in Belgium, nothing like that! Perhaps the situation is under control, but perhaps you will have to represent yourself in front of us in a week? Why, politically, do you not adopt the same attitude in relation to other countries? Are you sure that the products mentioned in France are not sold, even if it is by French companies, on the Belgian market, since there is no border in this matter? I would like more explanations on this than we have at this stage. With respect to the counter-expertise component, I must confess that I did not understand your explanation. I wish you could take it back beyond the slide. I'm not saying you didn't mention it. I'm just saying that I didn't understand the scientific explanation for the fact that two analyses give very different results; not at the margin! Because on the margin, I understood the reasons! But if you could repeat the explanation and tell us the conclusion that you're drawing from it? Which of these two tests is the right one? Is it the initial expertise or the counter-expertise, because it is the reliability of the tests that is involved. Last week, you said it wasn't always the same profile, but is this explanation the way it is? So I will listen to you again carefully. I also come back to information in the European Union. You made it clear. Belgium must provide information when the toxicity threshold (the health hazard) is exceeded. If I understand correctly, but this is more implicit, it is possible but not mandatory to report levels above the Maximum Residue Limit (MRL) but below the toxicity threshold. Why didn't you? The results are greater than 0.005 and less than 0.73. Results in this margin give you the opportunity to inform. But you don't. You say that the European Union sometimes refuses to say so. That's right. I'm going back to last week's reasoning. What prevents you from saying that when, on June 2, you receive important information, which is not neutral? On June 9, the non-compliance is confirmed. On June 14, a non-compliant result. On 21 June, a non-compliant result. Despite these three confirmations of non-compliance, you are not informing Europe at that time. You're waiting for July 20th. I think you've failed. Mr Thiéry, I agree with you. I said it last week. You weren't there, but your colleagues will be able to confirm it. This does not result in a health crisis. That's right. I am not criticizing this aspect. I criticized the fact that the system did not work. This does not mean that it has led to a significant public health problem. I can meet you on this. I make a good distinction between the two aspects. I am particularly interested in the fact that on June 2, the AFSCA receives non-compliance information at a level of 1.2 ppm above the toxicity threshold. I'm going back to logic. When you receive the information on 2 June at a rate of 1.2 ppm, greater than 0.73 ppm, you must introduce it into the European system, even if you withdraw it from subsequent tests, counter-expertise, non-conformity and others. Why don't you put this 1.2 ppm result in the system? I don't have that information. You'll certainly give it to us. This is a problem because it is above the European threshold. You should have used this alarm signal and informed the European system. That is what allows me to say that there have been flaws in the exchange of information on this crisis as it has been managed. To say that all this is thanks to self-control or to the whole system, I do not agree! I'll explain why. In my view, the explanations given about the place of self-control and its qualities last week do not make sense, simply because we are in a situation of fraud. This was not only the case for fipronil but also for the mad cow crisis, dioxin chicken, horse meat in lasagna or for frelate oil. These are examples of fraud. Self-control never detects fraud! The guy who frauds isn't going to self-control to denounce the fact that he frauds. Never! It is because there are other analyses that are not self-control but are inherent in a control that it is then possible to detect fraud. By way of deduction, I ask you again why you did not see the presence of this product, while word of mouth worked in the poultry industry. The Dega-16 was considered a miracle product. But your ears or those of your collaborators did not receive this information at any time, while in the middle, in Flanders as in Wallonia (and in the Netherlands), the information was circulating with a new miracle product which allowed to cover the risk for eight to nine months. Should the AFSCA (or Public Health if the bullet is returned) not be interested in this product? You don't care. You say that nothing has happened to you in this regard. This is an issue of concern about the functioning of the system itself. While, I repeat, in the poultry world, this information was circulating. It seems to me that you should ask yourself about the effectiveness of your sensors, about the reasons why you were not alerted about a new event in the environment and for which your attention would have been necessary. "This product appears to be miraculous, let's look at what it's all about!" In my opinion, self-control will not be enough in this area: you must resume or develop random controls, including for prohibited products, much more so that you had received the signal from the Higher Council of Health. No, not directly related to eggs, I know - I read the report and your answer! – but nevertheless specifically on fipronil. You could have crossed that signal with the fact that something miraculous was happening in the area. In any case, for the future, I invite you to look differently at the arrival of miraculous products on the market. This must at least be a complementary lesson to the others you had to learn from this crisis. I also have questions about compensation. Mr Ducrame, I think you said that; other colleagues have also spoken and I agree with them: poultry farmers are in no way responsible - until proven otherwise - for what is happening, but they are the first victims. There are consequences for the health of consumers, it has been said, even if for now it seems to be under control. However, on the part of farmers, real difficulties arise. So I would like you to be more specific, Mr Ducrame, because in the principles – some colleagues have already criticized them – there is, above all, one that gets the attention. That is the question of compensation. I'm sorry to say that the rest is rather derisory. When we look at the figures, the reliefs offered in social or other contributions are not enough in relation to the cost of daily food for chickens. The poultry farmers cannot exterminate them, you have recalled - and we understand it. The only measure that could really help them is compensation. On this issue, it is essential to provide early clarification as these poultry farmers must make decisions. What proportion will be covered? Don't give any amounts in euros yet! Give proportions! What proportion of the damage they incur, both in direct and indirect costs, will be covered? Under what mechanism? Some speak of a flat-rate mechanism, others of a mechanism related to the case, situation and analysis of the individual situation. Mr Ducarme, what mechanism do you intend to compensate for? What is the source of funding? The Health Fund? Why? Why not what has been used before? What date will you be set? You'll tell me it's a law that still needs to be passed. I can hear you, but when will the government come with a clear proposal? I'm not asking for this for us. Let's be clear! I refer here to the demands of the poultry farmers who are still blocked today. They hear on the radio this morning that we're in a state of crisis. I'm sorry, but they're right in there, Mr. Ducrame. They're in crisis. I won't say anything else, but you understand what I would have said. For now, they are at the heart of the crisis. "Crisis exit," they can't hear it today! As long as they don't see clearly about compensation, as long as they don't see how much will be compensated, they can't project themselves anywhere else than in the crisis, if only financially. Even if only in relation to the choices, the orientations they have to take with regard to their hens! And on that side, saying that a law will come is not enough. I ask you to take advantage of your reply to make it clearer what part of the compensation you will take care of. This will allow the companies concerned to calculate and make the choices as quickly and as calmly as possible. I can tell you that for them, the crisis is not over; far from there! With regard to the conclusions as you stated them, which Minister Ducrame had already mentioned in the press, which said, "they did the job", I am not following you. I'm not saying nothing has been done. I didn't say that last week and I don't say that this week either. I'm just saying that getting into some kind of denial, pretending the system worked, isn't going to help us for the future. Saying that, I am speaking to both the government and the AFSCA. The system did not work when this product could be used for months without you realizing it. I say that because other products could appear tomorrow. We are currently in a model that we have to leave. As we said last week, I will not come back to this debate today. We are in a model where only profit matters to some. And these will continue to try to enter the market. That's why you need to change your operating and control model and software. But I repeat that it is in denial to say that the AFSCA has made the right decisions at every moment. I explained why she should have informed, at least as early as June 2. I explained why the system could not detect for months the existence on the market of this product called "Dega-16" in which there was fipronil. These elements are, for me, sufficiently clear to allow me to say that the system has failed and that I cannot agree with your conclusions, beyond the other political elements on which we are going back. I'm thinking about guardianship on public health. Madam Minister, last week you said: "This cannot be done urgently. We need to take the time to analyze. ..."Okay, but I ask you not to forget that element. It is not normal for guardianship to be in the hands of the minister who is responsible for the same area. It is a matter of public health, protection of citizens and consumers; it must come back to the hands of public health, as was the case in 2004, when it was initiated. We'll come back. I ask you, minister, to keep this one of your top priorities. Mr President, Madam President, you have seen that there are still a lot of very specific questions beyond what I have not yet been able to find out in the e-mail that was received during a meeting containing the 150 answers. Perhaps some of the questions I have asked will be answered; if so, I beg your pardon. I was unable to listen carefully and at the same time to all of these answers. I hope that we will have answers today because we are now more than two months away from the first information. It's more than time to see it clearly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u22	In the meantime, ladies and gentlemen, I can tell you that the power points have been forwarded, both the Dutch version and the French version.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u23	Madam President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by saying explicitly to one of my colleagues that it is not a question of saying that nothing has been done, that the crisis is not being managed. It is now a question of saying that we need to be attentive to different elements and to hear the minister give us assurances. Minister, you are telling us that the problem has been clearly identified and that various measures have been taken. For my part, what I want to hear is guarantees to parliamentarians that we are and to consumers. I want to hear you say there's no fipronil in our spokes anymore. Can you say that now? Can you clearly take this insurance? I would like to hear from you about this. You tell us the crisis is under control. So tell me explicitly that with the privileged information you have as a minister, you can tell consumers with confidence that there is no longer a risk. I would like more information about your position. You say here that everything is under control and that I can be reassured. Like the consumer, I am not completely reassured. I would like to hear from you on this as well. I would not like to hear a speech in which the fears of each other are blurred. Secondly, I would like us not to forget the difficulties of a sector which is in crisis and which does not see the end of it. You know that and we are aware of it: There are still farmers who have to buy food for their animals. They have to pay for this food, but the eggs that are produced are not sold. You yourself mentioned the number of farms that were still in the case. I would have liked the ten measures that you and the government took yesterday to be more proactive. You have to deal with the whole issue of compensation or compensation/compensation of breeders who have to give their animals daily food for almost 1 000 euros. They're having cash flow problems. They don't know what their future will be made of. We need to reassure them. There are still frozen farms. This leads me to question you and Mr. Diricks about the decision made. Why not operate the Health Fund when it has been used on other occasions to compensate farmers? I am thinking of dioxin in particular. You're saying you're going to use the AFSCA reserves. This is interesting but I was surprised when I learned that these amounted to about 170 million euros. I wonder why these amounts are so important? What does AFSCA need? What for? Is it only a reserve for compensation in the event of a health crisis? Is there not too large a levy in relation to the sector? I would have liked answers to those questions. On the other hand, Minister, there has been a lot of talk about eggs. Normal, that's the subject of the day! However, there has been little mention of eggs contained in derivatives or processed products, particularly as regards the information to be given to the consumer. Minister, why has the precautionary principle that prevailed when it was decided to remove contaminated eggs not been applied to processed products containing these eggs? Can you assure consumers that the mayonnaise in the store shelves does not contain fipronil? I am referring here to the eggs that were used to produce this mayonnaise. Today, France reports waffles removed from the sale – look at the press sites during our commission. A number of products are being withdrawn today, were withdrawn yesterday, whereas this is not the case with us. Why? Is there anything you can't do? When we talked about these egg products, Mr. Diricks referred to the breakage by relying on his PowerPoint. The breaker must warn the next speaker, first of all the manufacturer, then the customer, finally the consumer. In this respect, in terms of responsibility, we are part of a relay race test. There is a stick of responsibility but you have to be able to go to the last element of the chain to prevent problems. I wonder about this food chain where the last element is not informed. Today, therefore, things are not over. That's not because the crisis is being managed. It is not because a number of measures are taken – I mentioned light measures – that everything is over. I think things are starting now and we need to make a number of decisions that will push us further. I'm asking for an audit of the AFSCA. Mr. Thiéry is taunting me with this audit! But Minister Kris Peeters also asked for it last week. It's not nothing! Because questions remain unanswered, questions meriting evaluation and analysis. Do you think there is no need to make an evaluation of the principle of self-control? Do you not think that an evaluation or audit is necessary on the principle of food blocking, on the information procedure of the appropriate minister? We talked last week about 900 notifications. They may need to be listed in order of priority. Do you not think that an audit of the procedure for the exchange of international information should be carried out? Even today, we are referring to it in this committee. Don't you think an audit is necessary on the public information procedure? Do you not think that there is a problem with the means allocated to AFSCA for laboratory control and analysis and therefore an audit to be carried out in this regard? Do you think the AFSCA procedures apply to the agro-industry in the same way as to small producers? Is there not, in your control processes, a weighting of the rigidity of procedures to the higher risk of exposure of the population due to the agro-industry? Do you not think that the question of the European regulation, which says that the craft product is subject to exceptions, should be settled. This is enshrined in the European regulation and I would like to know how this regulation on the artisanal exception has been mentioned in the current problems related to our case? These supplementary questions, in my view, require an audit or evaluation of the AFSCA, just as the Court of Auditors' report on the AFSCA was mentioned. It has never been debated in committee, and I think that is something that we must bear in this matter today. The same is true of the Supreme Council of Health, which warns you and the way in which you have treated this report, in my opinion, with a little lightness, paying attention to the words that I pronounce. It seems to me that parliamentary scrutiny could be mentioned in this respect. That, Madam Minister, is all the questions I wanted to ask you. However, I still have one question. I'd like to put it here, since I didn't have time to address it to you. Indeed, the answers you sent us reached us at 3:26 p.m. by e-mail. So I couldn't have read both the answers and heard you. At one point, exchanges of information took place between the Netherlands and Belgium. You've been warned by self-control. A first item concerning fipronil was brought to your attention on 2 or 9 June. Holland warned you at the end of July, but without this international element, would you have triggered the procedure in relation to fipronil? There is still a moment of hesitation about this. I wish I had an answer from you in that case. Another question remains unanswered regarding suspect products that are not systematically analysed. How come we found fipronil on this unsuspected farm and if it wasn't, it's probably because she wasn't a Chick Fund client? But how is it that fipronil has arrived on this farm? Minister, isn't it time to publish the list of contaminated egg and by-products? France and England did. Belgium must do so, too. The AFSCA site only mentions the reference numbers of the recalled eggs, but no information on the derived products! I remind you of my question about the presence of fipronil in derivatives, whether it be sauces, salads, waffles or biscuits. I want to hear you today to make sure that there is no more fipronil in the shelves of our supermarkets. It's a matter of public health. These may be very small rates compared to Mr. and Mrs. All-the-World", but the question remains with regard to children or pregnant women. I wish you could have reassured me about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u24	I am a little surprised because the ministers and many colleagues from the government parties say that everything went well and that there are no problems. For months fipronil was sold in Belgium. You don't think that's a problem? Everything went okay? Tracks were found in September 2016. Nevertheless, everything is in order and there is no need to discuss how better to act and what has gone wrong. Yet you consider a debate unnecessary. It is a problem that a large nursery used fipronil for months and that this was discovered months later. That is the problem that brings us all together today. I am amazed that the government parties do not want to engage in the debate and do not want to admit that something has gone wrong and what exactly went wrong. That seems to me to be a first very important point, especially in the area of food safety. Secondly, I ask myself a question that I think is important. I believe that this is a substantive debate. How is it that it was decided, a little arbitrarily, that the 0.72 mg/kg limit would be the safety point, the political point? It's still an important issue. If we all agreed here that the fundamental problem is a rate of 0.005, the reports we receive from the AFSCA would be much more alarmist. But for some reason, by mixing European values a little, we are going over this. I understood the difference between the two. I am not an expert, but the AFSCA representative will certainly explain to me more clearly. The 0.72 limit is an acute exposure causing an immediate problem. The 0.005 limit is a chronic problem, that is, we will be exposed to this level in our daily diet. It seems to me quite logical that, in order to protect consumers, we should consider the issue of chronic exposure. It seems obvious to me, on the basis of the precautionary principle, that this limit is chosen. That is the limit Europe is telling us. It is said that it is applied at European level, but I see differences between European countries in the interpretation of these limits. Why, ladies and gentlemen, do we not take the 0.005 limit? This would be consistent with the precautionary principle. If we analyze the answers from the point of view of a limit set at 0.005, it changes things a little. We have just received the responses from the minister. To the question: "Why warn citizens so late? Are there contaminated eggs in their fridge?", reply: "The consumer was informed as soon as a danger to public health was found. That was not the case until August 8. It is on this date that the first (and so far the only) official result goes up above the limit value set at European level." The value taken here is 0.72. Why not take 0.005? It is interesting to see what is being done in the Netherlands in terms of limits. The Dutch set three different limits: - The first is 0.72 mg/kg: Adverse health effects during acute exposure, short-term dosing. NVWA (the Dutch equivalent of AFSCA) warns the public and communicates the codes of the eggs concerned. They cannot be marketed and must be removed from stores. Don't eat them. They must be thrown away. - The second is 0.06 mg/kg: Possible adverse health effects for children in the event of prolonged consumption. Eggs cannot be marketed and must be removed from stores. NVWA publishes the codes and advises children not to eat them. - Third list: 0.005 mg/kg. No risk to public health. Eggs cannot be marketed and are withdrawn from sale. Egg codes are published to inform consumers, but they are not advised to eat. In the Netherlands 200 codes are made public. After all, it is about access to information. It's access to information. This explains why in the Netherlands 200 codes have been communicated. And in Belgium, a code. We're strong! We're in the same crisis. Dutch consumers have access to 200 codes. Only one of us! Why? Here, I'm not even asking for withdrawal. I'm talking about the right to information. The consumer's right to know whether this egg contains more than 0.005 mg/kg. I have a right to know. That's what this is about: the right to information, isn't it? My first question to the Minister is to make public, as in the Netherlands, the information on the three lists of products according to the value of 0.72, 0.06 and 0.05 mg. The third point that I think is important is what has been done in other countries. We're told here that there's no problem, there's a little code, and that's all. On the other side of the border, France has just announced today that it has withdrawn a whole series of waffle brands, 250 gram mini waffles, soft waffles, powder waffles, etc. Which companies are marketing them? Carrefour, Leaderprice, System U, companies that market products in our territory. Why does a Carrefour de France have to remove waffles while a Carrefour in Belgium can continue to sell them? You should explain it to us. We've got a little worry. It may not be justified, but tell us! There must be an eel under rock. If our French friends follow precautionary principles, why don't we do the same at home? That is the important question I would like to ask the minister today. Fourthly, I would like to address the problem of the consequences for the economies practised at the AFSCA level. Between the minister and the AFSCA representative, I would like to know who is wrong and who is right. I hear the minister tell us that: "Despite the budget savings, the AFSCA was able to carry out more tests with laboratory tests from 2014 to 2016. More tests with less budget! That's great! However, there is a logic that I understand a little better. The AFSCA representative said in his report that the number of checks carried out between 2011 and 2013 increased by 4%, but there was a sharp decrease from 2014, minus 6% in 2015 and even less 2.5% in 2016, which was less than 8.5% in total. Are we doing more or less with the budget? The two representatives are present today to give their opinion. The question is important because we are going to greatly increase controls, but we can ask ourselves whether this kind of situation is going to happen again, and that is what brings us together today. The AFSCA's means and the number of controls to be carried out seem to me to be important elements. I wanted to close my speech with these few rather fundamental questions. I believe that the AFSCA must be able to benefit from substantial resources, especially since today, and I regret that most of our food is produced by an agro-business that goes beyond the borders of the national states. I thought that the circulation of eggs was limited throughout the world but I worked two years in Kinshasa from 2003 to 2004, and I was surprised to see the containers loaded with Belgian and Dutch eggs breaking the egg price on the Congolese market where the cost of the Congolese farmers' egg was twice as high as the frozen Belgian eggs. The market was completely broken. Today we are witnessing a globalization of the economy and junk food. The latter has to stop. We must therefore have a social debate on the question of what kind of production we want to have, on the strengthening of the short cycle. That said, it is very important that the public service ensure the safety of people at the heart of this junk jungle because the consumer is not armed to know what an egg contains. Only public services and scientific services can help us in this area. It is for this reason that it is worrying to play, as is the case today, with standards. When the European Union sets the standard of 0.005 and not beyond, when it comes to chronic exposure, this standard must be met. We must not play with European values to make people believe that a problem arose only on 8 August. That's not true. You know that, and that is not reasonable if you want to trust the consumer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u25	Madam President, I would also like to thank the Minister and the Minister for all the additional and important information they have given us this afternoon. I would also like to thank Mr Diricks for the very precise description of the functioning of the AFSCA. Personally, all these procedures seem to me to be extremely consistent. We can see AFSCA as a well-organized company in its way of working, addressing problems, responding to them and finding solutions. It is also important to know that audits by the European Commission regularly check whether AFSCA complies with European standards and practices. It is also essential to learn that AFSCA is considered the right student in the European class. It is not for nothing that the AFSCA was the trigger for this fraud at European level. With regard to this first point, I have a question about standards. Could you tell us more about Belgian standards compared to European standards? Then you said you're working with Justice. We may not have talked about it enough today. You give them suspicious information and we can be sure that the justice system will continue to do its job, exploit all the elements so that all the light is shed in this case and that the fraudsters are prosecuted and convicted. Finally, Mr. Diricks, you have detailed how you worked in this case. The controls, the analyses were rigorous. The two hundred and sixty-six enterprises in the sector were monitored. Twenty-one are still blocked. I note that everything that was non-compliant was destroyed and removed from the large distribution. It's important. I would like to join Minister Ducrame in saying that we are emerging from the crisis. I would even say more: in the light of all the information provided today, we have emerged from the crisis. I am also referring to the reassuring, common-sense words - which have often been lacking in our debates - of Minister De Block, who says that the health of Belgians has never been put at risk. Finally, I refer to Pr. Bernard de l'UCL, a toxicologist, who says that to lead to acute intoxication, an individual would have to consume a few hundred eggs; what - we will agree - is surreal, like many populist comments that have been made by some in this commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u26	Madam President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, I support the conclusion that many of my fellow Members have already reached, namely that we still have an effective system of detection. I would like to express my support for the employees of the BFSA who have had to make a serious effort in the last few days and weeks. Public health has never been in danger and we have a performant system that can see a lot. In this context and following on from your presentation, where you say at the end that at some point we will see what we can possibly improve, I have the following question. If two fraudsters have a prohibited product that they will put into the system, they must have thought that they could stay under the radar, a bit like the American Stealth bombers, that they could stay below the 0.72 of Europe and the 0.05 detection value. If they thought they could fly somewhere in between and somehow get away with it, I think that is a phenomenon of concentration of risk. I'm taking a trip to the financial crisis we've had, where some analysts say the problem was ultimately also in a concentration of risk. Very paradoxically, they take the example of chickens and eggs. If you're interested, follow me. One has about a thousand chances of having an egg with two yolks. Tonight or tomorrow, you will prepare your eggs, according to the spirit of the committee. You break them and there's two yolks in there. The odds of that are one in a thousand. If you buy a box of six eggs, you have one in a trillion chances that all eggs are in there with two yolks. When people call and they hear that, they say this isn't right, because they've also had eggs with two yolks. Then the question is what exactly is going on statistically, that one has a phenomenon that in principle occurs only once in a trillion times. This has to do with concentration of risks, concentration of the phenomenon. In the financial crisis, this was a concentration of housing loans that broke down and suddenly they got something else. With the eggs, that's concentration. In this case, according to Tim Bedford, who described that phenomenon, the workers had to see if there was an egg with a double yolk in the package. They put that aside to eat at home, because that egg was not allowed to be marketed. If they had enough, they'd grab that box and put it back on the conveyor belt. That is how they ended up in the market and the problem of concentration of risk, which was not expected and a high probality of something that was wanted to be avoided. In this fipronil crisis, I think the same may be happening. Fipronil is not given with food, so one would have a kind of uniform distribution of the risk, but is nebulized. One can assume that one chicken gets more in than the other. We all assume that we need to look for something that is uniform, but in practice it is far from uniform. That also explains why one suddenly sees high ejections in the perception. One time one is under 0.72, the other time one is above it. My question is of a technical nature, again from my appreciation for the BFSA. Is the concentration of risk taken into account in the technical committees? Is the risk supposed to be evenly distributed? If we do not do that, I suppose there are even more strange phenomena with sudden high concentrations to be found. I know that some slides of a technical nature were not shown. Although there is no danger to public health, in a number of cases there will be more than one would say at first sight. We have seen that now. I would have liked to have had an exchange of views on this now or at another time. This phenomenon has also been very decisive in the financial crisis, in particular a statistical compilation of risk derivatives that are not normally taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u27	Quite a lot has been said here. I will therefore refer to what my fellow Members have already said on a number of points. It is certainly a fact that it is not possible to say here that everything went smoothly and that we are allowed to perform a whore show here. What strikes me most is that it is said that the auto-checking that is always being carried out has worked well. However, it is quite clear that this is a stroke of chance. This can be seen in the timeline of the document we received last week. That is an important point which cannot be denied and which one should not praise. Mr Diricks, you have explained very well how the triangle works, how European legislation works and how we are a good student in class. You also said that you are not so keen on an audit because so many audits are already taking place, on which Belgium scores very well. However, I do not think you have understood very well what most of the Members who are asking for an audit actually want. We are also concerned about the internal functioning of the Food Agency. Nevertheless, we have received reports from the Court of Auditors with recommendations, a few adjustments and even more criticism, including for personnel policy and integrity violations. There was a report from the federal ombudsdienst that pointed to problems with digitization projects and the like. So I can only support those Members who have asked for hearings at least. I agree with the names and organizations that should be heard here, ranging from experts to Test Purchase, the High Health Council, toxicologists and so on. If we have heard them all, I think we have enough information to know whether or not there should be an internal audit. However, I do not think it is correct to reject them in advance. Minister Ducarme, both in the 2016 policy paper and in the 2017 policy paper of your predecessor, Minister Borsus, states that there is a review of the rules on the safety of the food chain at European level. I already asked that question in committee. I think she's definitely here today. Is that revision going to happen? When? Why is this review coming? So what is the problem at European level if this is announced? In the same policy paper on this subject, I did not receive any answers to my questions, but Mr Ducarme, you said you needed more time, I hope a week is enough to answer the question.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... You know that Ecolo-Groen, but also other groups, prefer the BFSA under Public Health and we have explicitly argued this. You clearly say that an evaluation is planned and that you are working on it, that there will also be a follow-up. That dates back to March 2017. Where do you stand with that and what exactly do you intend to do? In view of this crisis, will you take into account the elements that we now know? Following on from what my fellow Members are saying, I do not understand at all how there are differences in approach when I find that there are many people saying that there are cookies and waffles being withdrawn from the market in France today. Then why should we be so sure that it should not be here? Why is there a difference in approach? I also have a number of questions which have not been addressed in the slides and which have to do with food supplements in chicken feed. Reports about this have been published in the media. For example, there are also the different products that have come through animal clinics to private individuals. We have discussed for a very long time the standard we have to apply, MRL, ArfD, ADI. However, we have not yet discussed ADI here in order to prevent long-term toxicity. You speak of a mix and of a model in which different things are integrated. However, I have not yet heard you say anything about this. That standard is also lower than 0.005, which is 0.0002. Is it taken into account in your model in any way? We discussed the communication with the Netherlands last time. You replied to me that it was about an e-mail. You mentioned it formally. The Netherlands dismissed it as an informal contact. Perhaps there should be proper agreements on what is formal and what is informal communication. The European alarm system is probably not set in motion by e-mail. The official report is of a different nature. It is of course a pity that because of this the Netherlands and Belgium have played each other the blind. Like other Members, I also want an opportunity to discuss the long-term vision in this committee. That is not going to happen today. We must take the time to do so, but I had already understood last week that Minister De Block also thought that such an open discussion should be possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u28	If no one asks to speak, Mr Delizée has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u29	Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a lot has been said. A lot of questions have been asked. I am not going to add too much, but I would like to make a brief statement with, on the first point, a specific question and, after that, two or three more general considerations. Minister, my more specific question concerns your letter of 7 August to your Dutch colleague, the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs but in charge of Agriculture. Last week, you said that you would have a direct and frank telephone exchange with him in the coming days. Earlier, when we talked about the documents, I asked if there was an answer. I understood - but I am not sure if I have heard or understood - that the contact was made by electronic means rather than by telephone. Could you confirm that? Was there an answer, even by electronic means? What, if any, was the content? That was my more specific question. The second more general point concerns the European Union. You have told us that this crisis is European and indeed today, seventeen, eighteen European countries are involved. Europe must, of course, also be concerned about this issue. You have told us about an informal Council to be held in September, taking a step backwards. I wanted to ask you a little more about the initiatives and the decisions you are waiting for or can initiate at European level with your colleagues. Has a crisis protocol been adopted or adapted for the present situation under the auspices of the European Commission? Of the ten measures, I will not comment on them all. Ten measures, that sounds good! It's better ten than seven or four. It's not bad in terms of communication. They certainly go in the right direction. I mean that there are several measures to help the cash flow of farmers and producers who are affected by the problem, such as plans for payment of social contributions, exemption from surcharges and interest, payment facilities on a professional basis and VAT. I think it's a good thing. This brings me back to a debate and reflection that we have had in our committee and I am speaking here to the Minister of Agriculture. This is a more general question. Following a proposal for a PS law, we had a debate on the over-indebtedness of the agricultural sector. It is true that according to the figures of the SPF Economy on the number of holdings and employment in the agricultural sector, it is clear that, from decade to decade, this number is unfortunately constantly decreasing. Every year, we lose farms and empois, while the agricultural area does not decrease. This means that there is a phenomenon of concentration and that the average size of farms tends to increase. We had this reflection because this bill (which I was proposing with two colleagues) indicates that the laws are not adapted to the agricultural sector: they are not affected by bankruptcy laws, the procedures for collective settlement of debts are not adapted, it is the announced failure, the judicial reorganization does not work, the business continuity law does not apply to their specific case...We had this debate and I must admit that the committee allowed us to hold hearings. We have heard the bodies representing the sector as well as those specialised in the social issues of farmers. Despite this, the vote was negative. Don't worry! It's democracy. What is surprising is that the authors have not received flowers in the figurative sense, but praise. The intentions were laudable but finally there was a 'but'! And, in my view, what has stuck, unlike France, which has an operational law, is the introduction of specific measures in the event of financial difficulties for farmers, trying to be as upstream as possible and prevent problems, namely banks and bank loans. As banks ultimately remain a priority. I am less optimistic than other colleagues about the reality. When you announce a measure on bank credits and credit rescheduling, the practice does not follow. In our bill, we proposed to negotiate with creditors, postpone and lighten up to find a solution so that the operation could pass through difficult times and leave with a management plan that would allow it to sustain the activity. I am not optimistic that this measure on bank loans brings results. You try to reassure us by saying that you will analyze carefully, conduct consultations and consider etc. But there is no measure to force banks to reschedule. I stay on my hunger accordingly and I wonder how you intend to do it. Will you require the banks to re-schedule debts in particular contexts for which the operators cannot do anything. Have you ever contacted the sector, obtained guarantees? Will you impose certain constraints on them, or will it be a measure among the ten, but it will only be a pious wish that will achieve nothing? Another measure relates to the collective redress mechanism. This is, in my view, a good measure. I am thinking here of the action class. My colleague, Daniel Senesael, said that this is the most interesting and innovative measure, considering the ten proposals. As my colleague has said, we are, in any case, in favour of thinking with the other political groups to work constructively on this issue. It's probably the measure that seduces me the most. There is also a measure on strengthening the AFSCA's information capacity. As some colleagues have pointed out, there have been, as elsewhere, linear savings, thus somewhat blind within the AFSCA, during this legislature. And finally, new ways must be found to at least respond to green numbers, calls and requests for information. In my view, this measure invites us to think a little more broadly. I'm trying to take a little step back by saying that we should think about the missions of the AFSCA. Should they be adapted or not? This is yet another debate. Consideration should also be given to the objectives to be achieved, the means available to that body and the adequacy of means, missions and objectives. In my view, it would be useful, in future discussions, in the context of a policy or policy note to have a more general debate on the means of AFSCA and the adequacy of needs and needs, particularly in the light of the current crisis. This is the last point I would like to address, namely the measure on compensation for producers, companies that are impacted, without fraud, of course. This is the most urgent request. They are asking for quick help. They're having cash flow problems. Some payments of social contributions may be staggered, but if production is or has been stopped for some time, there are no more receipts, but there are expenses. We have to feed, etc. So there are fixed expenses. Therefore, the operators are asking for advances. In short, the compensation referred to in the proposed process is a good thing in itself. But I'm wondering about the schedule. Mr. Senesael spoke about the timeline. Perhaps you can give us more information about this, Mr. Minister. But if I make a quick estimate, there will be, first of all, the tabling of a law in both languages, the request for an opinion from the Council of State, the examination in committee, the debate in plenary, the vote, the promulgation in the Belgian Moniteur: That is the first step! I don't know when that brings us. Secondly, the Council of Ministers must approve royal and ministerial decrees, which may be prepared in advance, but which must also be published. In a third stage, the administration must also issue an appeal and provide a time frame for the submission of applications, in a manner that must be specified; and then the administration must review the files on a case-by-case basis. All this brings us to the end of the year. That's my question: do you plan for faster compensation? If so, within what time frame? In view of the timetable, I do not see how this would be possible before the end of the year. This does not respond to the request expressed. There is really an immediate expectation of help, whether in the form of advances or in some other form. I'm asking you about the compensation schedule. My last point concerns the conclusion of the AFSCA. In the last slide of this beautiful presentation, I noted that Mr. Diricks said that the AFSCA will assess his actions and make proposals to improve procedures. As I said last week, I agree that the procedures must be reviewed from the outset, with knowledge of the industry and the control actors. What you're proposing, Mr. Diricks, is self-assessment. It's always good to do a self-assessment in the light of the facts. Last week, you also said that many audits had already been carried out, which I have no doubt. It would be interesting if Members of both committees could have access to these documents, if only as basic information. If there have already been studies, investigations, audits, it is good that we are aware of them. I agree with my colleague Mr de Lamotte that an outside look, with an external audit, would be interesting. It also seems to me a good proposal. Beyond the one-off crisis, in the long run, we must look for ways to improve things. We can discuss whether the auditor would be the Court of Auditors, the time limit, the modalities. All this can be discussed. But I think we need to go further in the analysis of what has happened and the lessons to be learned from this case. That's what I meant.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u30	Thank you, colleagues, for the speeches.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u31	Madam President, thank you. At the outset, I would like to address Mr. Hedebouw. I know you have a study desk at the PTB. That is why we are calling into question European standards, the analytical standard of 0.05, a step forward. I think you're mixing some elements. If I begin by answering questions about standards, it is because the references on which we base ourselves are important. This is what makes a test conform or not. That's what makes it possible to identify a problem or not. You said we were mixing a whole series of notions. I think you're the one who confuses them. Let me remind you that this standard of 0.05, the MRL, is a scientific analytical standard. This means that there is no trace below 0.05. Above, the result is non-compliant. This is to take the European standard of 0.072 for what it is, namely an acute, toxic standard. It is for these objective reasons that there are two standards. But I repeat it to you so that you can integrate it perfectly, when results are above the MRL, that is, 0.05, the company is blocked. For your teaching on this subject, keep it in mind. It was useful to further clarify the rationale for the development of these standards. These references have an important meaning. Mrs Dierick, Mrs Gantois, Mrs Lijnen and Mr Delizée have asked a lot of questions about the international level. In the dossier we have now been faced with, we noticed very quickly that there are no limits on such problems. The services concerned must therefore work together more than ever before. Mrs Dierick, you also alluded to it. I think it is useful, however, that I can trace the international contacts that we have been able to establish. Mr Delizée, you have also asked questions on this subject. It is a question of answering precisely the question of the exchange of letters. On Monday, 7 August, a telephone contact with the German Minister of Agriculture is organised. During this conversation, we agreed to appoint liaison officers to facilitate the exchange of information between our two countries. It's all in this question. The European scoreboard referred to is extremely important in this respect, but we see that the initiative we have taken in setting up liaison officers really allows us to exchange properly when we are confronted with problems such as this one. On the same day, Monday, 7 August, I sent a letter to the Secretary of State of the Netherlands, Mr Martijn van Dam, asking him questions about the information subsequently confirmed by the Dutch press but also by the Dutch agency. The next day, Tuesday, August 8, I had contact with the Commissioner for Food Security, Mr Andriukaitis. On Thursday, August 10, I was able to have four more telephone exchanges, first again with the Commissioner for Food Safety, with whom I discussed the importance – many have raised it and I join them – of having the meetings at European level that are now necessary. I told him that we were ready at the Belgian level to participate in a meeting like that and also to take our part in his organisation. I think he was able to demonstrate his willingness to organise a number of meetings, meetings at European level, as we have seen. Then I had a telephone contact on the same day with the French Minister of Agriculture, Stéphane Travert. We have decided to set up a liaison officer between our two agencies, which has already enabled the agencies to establish contacts and exchange. I was also able to contact the Secretary of State for Agriculture of the Netherlands, Mr van Dam, by telephone. We made it clear to each other. But above all, we came to the conclusion that I was already referring to earlier. If we want to learn the lessons that need to be learned at European level in the light of the crisis we are experiencing, we need to be able to work together more seamlessly and to exchange more directly. We have also taken the decision to set up liaison officers. Belgium has therefore been able to take constructive initiatives with its neighbouring countries. This may be inspiring at the forthcoming European meetings. Ms Dierick and Ms Lijnen also asked questions about Belgium's image of exports. As you know, the Agency communicates directly with Foreign Affairs and the information is transmitted to all Belgian diplomatic posts in order to answer the questions that arise, including in countries importing our products. On Friday, 11 August, a first telephone contact was held between the Belgian and Dutch liaison officers, following the decision we made. The exchanges were mainly of a technical nature. The approach is constructive on both sides. There is a real will to find solutions for as uniform an approach as possible. On Monday, 14 August, a conference call is also organised between the Belgian and French liaison officers in order to exchange information. On Tuesday morning, 15 August, I am informed by my services that the South Korean Food Security Agency has also detected the presence of fipronil on one of its farms. In this regard, we also have exchanges. It is clear that the issues need to be addressed at European level. We have an informal summit on 4 and 5 September 2017. In this context, I have expressed it as a wish of our Government, even if it is an informal summit, to be able to address the issue of fipronil already. How could it be otherwise? I recalled earlier that there are no fewer than 18 European countries currently involved in the egg product. There is also a communication from Commissioner Andriukaitis on the advisability of devoting an informal meeting and summit to this issue on 26 September. These are the elements on the European level! Of course, this echoes some of the questions raised. We will focus on the issue of information exchange. I would point out that, as far as the Agency is concerned, we have met our obligations with regard to the communication of information at the level of the RASFF system, the European Scoreboard. It may be a matter of considering provisions that would further improve the speed and flow of information exchange in this area. As far as the international aspect is concerned, a number of your comments on Belgium's action are directed at me. Mr. Nollet, you say the system has failed. Mr Senesael, you are extremely harsh about Belgium's performance in this area. Perhaps it is politics that wants this; we must, in a number of cases, look for our most ardent defenders abroad, because in this Parliament our action is denigrated, probably in a somewhat unfair way. Indeed, I would like to recall what Mr Thiéry, Mrs Lijnen and others have said: Mrs Schippers, the Dutch Minister of Health, replying to questions before the Tweede Kamer, admitted that the Dutch agency had made the observation, at the end of 2016, of the use of fipronil and stressed that the action of the Belgians had been extremely important in the detection of fipronil. Although there has been some tension at some point, this is what the Netherlands expresses while Belgian parliamentarians do not hesitate to say that we are not at a level. So you will allow me to take a little distance from the radicality of a number of critics, to also look at what can be said abroad from our agency. This was also said at meetings with German colleagues. These elements were reported in Mr. Diricks' presentation. Mr Nollet, forgive me for coming back to you again, but unlike Mr Bogaert, I believe that what you have said is in the right direction. We have been successful and I do not understand how some parliamentarians, mainly from the opposition, continue to broach self-control. It was through self-control, put in place by the AFSCA, that we were able to detect fipronil. We were the first to detect fipronil; we were the first to inform the European system of the presence of fipronil. We were the first to alert our European neighbours to the risk of fipronil in eggs. Let us not come here to repeat that we are not capable, that the system has failed. No, we must recognize the reality and the facts as they are: we were the first thanks to the system of self-control, to identify fipronil. Mrs Lijnen, Mrs Dierick, for the image of Belgium, this is undoubtedly a positive element which will enable us to highlight the Belgian system of self-control which has made it possible to detect this product. I think our system is working well, but I will go back to some elements, such as audit requests. However, as Mr. Diricks pointed out, after periods of crisis like this one, we are evaluating. I'll come back. We must also go back to some of the elements contained in Mr Nollet's questions. You're brandishing the fipronil bill as if it were the Grail. No! She doesn't prove anything. I thank Mr Piedboeuf for his reminder in this regard. Of course, a number of elements will be informed by the investigation, which will be explained by the courts! But we do not have all the information to answer Mr Nollet's question today about the origin of this bill. Is this in itself proof of the use of fipronil for eggs? Of course not! In this regard, I would like to nuance certain elements. The situation is similar to what happened a few days ago in a big newspaper (Le Soir) which said: "Superior Health Council, June 2016, fipronil: AFSCA knew!" Yes, the AFSCA knew, but it was not – and in this case, Mr. Nollet, thank you for noting it – a report on eggs. This was the presence of fipronil in cereals. So no, Mr de Lamotte, we were not light in this regard. All the recommendations of the Supreme Council of Health have been taken into account and this dossier is not led by the AFSCA but, in a much broader way, by the federal government. Today, as far as insecticides are concerned, fipronil is obviously no longer available on the market, which is in line with the recommendations of the Higher Health Council. Mr. Nollet, you raised a hare, amistraze. Tests were performed to verify the presence of amitrazes in our eggs. All the tests were negative. I may be criticized for having communicated this information because these are elements that are probably found in the survey but I would not like only fipronil, we move on to a soap opera on another insecticide, the amitrazed soap opera. All tests performed were negative. We're not going to settle everything, but, Mr. Nollet, you're asking me a question that falls within the scope of the investigation judge's work. We'll try to answer it as clearly as possible. You indicate that there was a suspicious perimeter, the eighty-six farms. Yes, the AFSCA has done what we are probably very little to do in Europe, namely to decide, as part of the monitoring, to test from 4 August the whole egg industry (direct consumption, processed eggs and meat). Because AFSCA tested all farms, the entire industry, we found that there was this farm where the test results were non-compliant. Our first decision, of course, was to block the eggs. It's obvious. This exploitation, whose rates were extremely low, was not within the suspect perimeter; it was not included in the list transmitted by the courts. So there was this farm in addition, but I wanted to tell you that one hundred and seventy-eight additional farms that were tested. From my point of view, I can tell you frankly that it is rather a good surprise that only seven farms showed non-compliant results, even if the rates were very low, and therefore had to be blocked. The investigation will tell us exactly where fipronil came from, which explains the non-compliance of the tests performed. To be clear, we were able to do this research on egg samples until June 2016. It's information; it's not evidence. Nevertheless, such information will be communicated by the AFSCA to the court which will have to decide. As far as we are concerned, we are fortunate that the test results have been extremely low. In a number of cases, they were only slightly higher than the European standard, the MRL. It is therefore ex post that we will be able to know exactly what happened. It's the investigation that will tell. Today, I say, I repeat – many of you, as Damien Thiéry pointed out – the whole egg industry has been controlled. We are the only ones in Europe to have proceeded with the control of the entire sector with the AFSCA. The Belgian eggs that come out today are guaranteed without fipronil and do not present any problems. I can assure you, Mr. de Lamotte. Mr de Lamotte, like Messrs. Delizée and Senesael, we are rural people. With Benoît Piedboeuf and others, we are naturally very attentive to the rural situation. By contagion – if I dare the word – we are also very attentive to the situation of small producers. I am naturally sensitive to the fact that we can, with AFSCA, support small producers. My predecessor, Mr Willy Borsus, has set up the small producers' unit, which accompanies them and informs them about these standards, which, it is true, are demanding. They must, of course, be if we want what happens on the consumer's plate to guarantee his health. In a number of cases – for example, rice pie – standards have been relaxed through research involving AFSCA. I got Mr. Di Antonio online. I talked to him. We agreed to have exchanges. We also agreed not to appear, in these sensitive times, as politicians who, to the calm and the results that we owe to the population and consumers in such matters, would favour a battle or a political game. I think we will all be able to get out of these exchanges, also thanks to what I want to implement. I hope he'll be receptive. We have a small producers cell. I want to look at the leads that would allow us to strengthen this cell. Some have referred to the Court of Auditors' report. Please be aware that the AFSCA is regularly audited, whether by the European Union or the Court of Auditors. Therefore, those who, as Mr de Lamotte does quite firmly, do not seem to be aware of the fact that the AFSCA is an extremely audited body, also by the European Union. Let me tell you from the outset that I agree with Minister Kris Peeters: we must, as the AFSCA indicates, evaluate our action and that of the AFSCA. We are emerging from the crisis, but once it is completely behind us, it will obviously have to be evaluated, as is the case after each crisis. We will involve the advisory committee and ensure that we identify what can still be improved, because all agencies can be improved. That's what I said. It's pointed. Of course, there will be an evaluation. It's normal for there to be one after an event like this. It'll take place. Madam President, we will have heard from this House. I can reassure you. As you noted during Mr. Diricks' presentation, this is a very fundamental and natural element. Mr Delizée, with regard to the AFSCA budget, which had given rise to a large number of remarks, was touched by the savings to be achieved, as were all departments. The state budget imposes savings. These are cross-cutting and therefore also relevant to AFSCA. However, in the fipronil crisis that brings us together today, it should be noted that from 2014 to 2016, sampling followed by tests could be increased by 2.5%. This means that the AFSCA has been able to mobilize to increase the number of tests performed despite the savings achieved. How is a product like fipronil detected? Taking samples and testing. I now turn to the measures taken. I thank the parties of the majorities and beyond. I have heard a number of representatives of the opposition say that the measures are in the right direction. Together with the federal government, with Maggie De Block, Kris Peeters, Koen Geens, Johan Van Overtveldt, in close consultation with the Prime Minister, we have produced these ten measures. I can hear what you're saying about bank credit, Mr. Delizée. This is an important step. Mr Nollet, I have a great deal of respect for the parliamentarian you are. You're going to ask, like others, quite relevant questions. What I can't accept is that you're talking instead of the sector. The Task Force met this morning to indicate, in all voices, both in the north and south of the country, that the measures taken by the federal government are well received and that the media relay these long-awaited measures. So when you tell us here that it is peanuts, it is unacceptable, Mr Nollet! You don't have to talk instead of the sector. You do not have to replace the sector we have met to describe these well-received measures as peanuts. I want to be the most respectful of everyone's wishes, but it has to be on both sides. Some issues relating to these measures are very important. Let us mention the question of deadlines! It is obvious that there is a whole series of measures alongside the compensation measure, alongside the action class measure - it was in the papers for SMEs and the self-employed since Mrs Laruelle. We had shopping in the boxes back then. Today, we will be able to implement this class action. Apart from compensation, these measures will take longer than the first ones that will be activated extremely quickly. To be precise, it will be a matter of implementing a bill that will have to be voted on and that will allow us, in order to answer a question from Mr. de Lamotte, to organize the object of the AFSCA reserve to assist the sector, which is not its purpose at the base. We have not activated the Health Fund, because this is a fraud. Mr de Lamotte, when you say that the Health Fund had been activated in the context of the dioxin crisis, you are making a mistake. That's not true, there was a special dioxin fund that was activated. In the context of fraud, we could not activate the Health Fund. Moreover, fipronil is not the only danger we face. We must therefore keep certain reservations about these realities. However, we will have to act as quickly as possible and (...).
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u32	There is an urgent need, Minister, both in terms of cash flow and (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u33	I know that there is an urgent need and, in this context, we can act together with the Regions, where you have responsibilities for the south of the country, in order to activate measures. I would remind you that the Walloon Minister of Agriculture is very involved in the matter and that he has a number of levers in the socio-economic sphere of agriculture. You were able to see that Minister Jeholet had planned meetings with the banking sector. We must work together, we are aware that time is running out and that we must mobilize to ensure that this bill is discussed and voted on as soon as possible. But it will not be done with a snap of fingers. What was the requirement to allow operators to get back to work? This is of course an objective: to organise self-control tests as quickly as possible, as is the case with the 21 farms still blocked; to receive early confirmation by the AFSCA that the tests are compliant, which is made possible by the measures we have taken and the additional accreditation of laboratories. Yes, Mr. de Lamotte, I am aware of the urgency. We have mobilized and presented these new measures in an extremely short time, acknowledge it! It did not take a week after the first meeting for these measures to be put on the table. Mr President, it seems to me to have taken a rather large turn. One question from Mrs Lijnen was what will allow me to answer another question: bio. It is clear that Dega-16, a natural product, composed of eucalyptus and mint, was not intended to contain fipronil. The misappropriation of this natural product was carried out as part of this fraud, again. It is clear that the survey will establish a number of additional developments, but as far as the Dega-16 is concerned, I had to make that point: it was a natural product, the object of which was diverted.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u34	What about derivatives?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u35	As we have told you, derivatives are also controlled. Mr. Diricks indicated this in his presentation. I have also indicated that. The whole egg industry is tested: eggs produced directly for consumption, eggs processed into egg products and meat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u36	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u37	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u38	I shall first give the floor to the Minister of Health. If there are any further questions, they can be asked afterwards.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u39	Mr Senesael, you are asking me about the exceptions for the payment of social contributions. You said you didn't agree because it doesn't apply to everyone. There are several exceptions. Applications will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis by ONSS in consultation with each company. Companies that have problems paying their social security contributions for one reason or the other have the opportunity to contact the ONSS, whose email address I mentioned. Applications will be processed very quickly with a view to finding tailor-made solutions. Mr Nollet, as regards the recognition of biocides, I refer you to European Directive 79 of 2011, according to which fipronil is a biocide which cannot be in contact with food. In Belgium, four biocides containing fipronil are recognized. These are products against ants. I can give you a list: these are STOP FOURMIS, Goliath Gel and Fourmidor products.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u40	Not the Dega-16?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u41	No, not the Dega-16. As my colleague said, it was not known that the Dega-16 contained fipronil. It's a case of fraud. The fraudsters made publicity; their product smelled menthol and eucalyptus and they claimed that it was a natural product, quite harmless. The Dega-16 was therefore not recognized. This was not necessary because it was not a product that had to comply with the directive. I'm going to pesticides. As regards pesticides, there are those intended for plants, DG4 of the Public Health Office is responsible for this. In that segment, no products with fipronil have been on the market since the end of 2017. The producer of the last product on the market did not request any new approval. The consent, formerly the recognition, was given by Agriculture. As far as biocidal products are concerned, there are four products against ants. DG5 is responsible for this. It is a shared competence of Mrs Marghem and myself. As far as medicines or food supplements for animals are concerned, for example against fleas in cats and dogs, the Federal Agency for Medicines and Health Products is competent. The Agency authorizes those products. It's about products against lice and fleas in cats. When it comes to a dietary supplement, the FPS Health Department is competent. Dega-16 was recommended as a completely natural product, which is good for chickens. As there was no biocidal product in the product, no authorisation was requested. Maybe it got in after. I don't know, but that's what the investigation's gonna have to prove. In any event, the addition of that product to that product was a fraudulent matter. Recognition of a product always applies for a number of years, for example for a maximum of 10 years. In the meantime, it is also subject to controls. For products that do not come into contact with food, the FPS Public Health is competent. For products which do come into contact with food, checks are carried out by the Federal Agency for the Safety of the Food Chain. There are also targeted campaigns by DG5 against illegal products. This includes, for example, the detection of products that are illegally contained in drinking water. In this respect, the services work well together. Mr Hedebouw, I understand that you could not be here last week, but I had made a nice table. You messed up the standards a little bit. I will deliver the table to you, in French or in Dutch. The table was not added to the report, which is why you have not been able to see it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u42	Madam Ministers, I will now give colleagues who wish to do so the opportunity to use their right of reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u43	Mr President, Madam Minister, I thank you for the answers you have given. Having said that, I would like to go back to a few points that have not been sufficiently clarified. First of all, with regard to the Dega-16 to which the Minister of Public Health has just referred, no application for authorisation has been requested and therefore no authorization has, a fortiori, been granted.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u44	There were tests.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u45	What do you mean, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u46	Tests were carried out during the investigation, but not before.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u47	All right. The tests were carried out during the investigation. That's what I understood. This means that a product of which one boasts that it is natural – which, in fact, is not the case – which is perfumed with eucalyptus, etc., was used for at least a year in Belgium without anyone ever asking whether it was allowed, whether it should be authorised and without any tests being carried out on it. However, it was a well-sold product for which word-of-mouth functioned in the sector. Neither the Health FPS nor the AFSCA were concerned about whether this product, which had no approval, no licence to be marketed, had been tested. For me, this remains a real problem in the system! Today, I have the answer. No one authorizes, no one controls the use of these products. It is believed to be a natural product with a good smell of eucalyptus and everything is fine. We need to change that, make authorization compulsory. Self-checking is required to verify that the products used are authorized. You must at least recognize that there is a flaw in the system on this point. A product may be used without authorization and during self-checking, it is not verified whether the products used are authorized. Mr Ducrame, your silence speaks volumes and shows that there is a problem in this regard. Secondly, as far as derivatives are concerned, I was not asking you what was tested. I heard that. I asked you what your position was with regard to the French and English shares to publish the list of products concerned. Are you going to upgrade with these countries or not? Do you intend to publish the list? I would remind you that in France, waffles, Britain, other products such as mayonnaise or children's products. Can you answer that question? Will you publish this list? Mr President, I am asking a supplementary question because I did not receive a precise answer in the first round on this aspect.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u48	That is the meaning of the second round of questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u49	Mr Minister, I thank you, on the other hand, for the clear answer on amitraz. Mr. Diricks, I pointed out to you that I did not understand the explanation of the counter-expertise and I did not hear an explanation from Minister Ducrame or Minister De Block, which is normal given that she is dealing with Health. I expected you to intervene, but I don't have an answer. Mr. Ducrame, France has announced that since April, 200,000 contaminated eggs have been on the market. You have not developed this aspect. You said that there were liaison officers but that these officers reported to you on the problem I identified, differences between your point of view and that of France. I also await your answer on this point. I expect the AFSCA to respond, but they did not intervene in the second round on the information component of 1.2 ppm in the European Union. Obviously, we want to end it quickly with this committee by kicking off all these issues. I'll come back and ask my questions until I get an answer. Mr Ducrame, with regard to your reply on compensation, I think you have not heard everything that people have said on the way out. Read the press release, not that of the Boerenbond because they were already happy before entering! On exit, Fugea and FWA asked questions, made demands and stated that there was a problem with the lack of transparency of the AFSCA. This is published in the press release, it is accessible, go consult it. The modalities of compensation are also problematic. That is why I am relaying this proposal. It is these people who ask for it on the way out because things are not clear enough, although there is an urgent need. I can't agree with you when you say that on the way out, everyone said everything was good and there were no more questions and no more problems. Read the release on release! Mr President, I expect clarification on these issues, as well as on the fact that derivatives are only controlled from June to July. Guarantees are given on June-July 2017. However, the first traces date from September 2016. These questions therefore remain open. I assume the AFSCA had planned to respond, but it was asked not to do so. So I come back with these questions to give him the opportunity.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u50	Mr President, I thought that by not speaking very long and simply asking three questions to Mr Diricks, I had the best chance of getting answers. I'll repeat them. I apologize to my colleagues. I think this is an example of inefficiency, but I was really short. I repeat the three brief questions I had asked. I don't think the answer will be very long. The questions relate to the power point. Yesterday there was a committee in the Flemish Parliament, where we heard Minister Schauvliege say that she only received information on 31 July and then because the Flemish Landsmaatschappij had asked the BFSA. The BFSA says that the interaction with the Regions and the federal level is very important. I saw on the slides that this happened from August 7th. Now that we know the timeline, it is obviously far too late. My first question is therefore what will be the future contacts with the Flemish level. Will there be faster communication from the BFSA to Flanders, especially when a judicial investigation is initiated at the courthouse? My second question concerns auto-checking. On one side of the table, everyone says that it is incredibly good, while the Court of Auditors also makes a lot of recommendations to improve car control. We wonder what the BFSA does when it finds that a company should have reported something that did not do so. Is there a sanction foreseen? Is that financial or other sanction? I would like to add a small question. I may have gotten misinformation, but is it true that every company is only checked every two to three years on average? I read that somewhere, but my question about the sanction is particularly important. Thirdly, I have heard Mr Diricks say very often that all European rules were followed. We wonder whether Europe agrees that it will not be informed for the first time until six weeks later that a judicial inquiry was launched on 2 June, and the ministers later. Is that the way that was agreed? Or has Europe not been followed and waited too long to inform Europe?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u51	Mr President, I assumed that Mr Diricks would reply to the questions I had put to the BFSA. Nothing has yet been said about the fact that fipronil had ended up in cleaning products sold to private individuals. I would have liked to have had an update on this. Have they been tracked down? How are these people informed about how to handle their eggs and their chickens? I also had a number of questions about the time of the visit, which would take place on 19 July. It didn't go through, according to the BFSA's note because there were too few police officers. That's completely contradicted by the local mayor. Those are two opposite versions. Which one's the right one? Why did they want to do another visit on 19 July? The parquet had not yet been informed, while a lot of information was already available at the BFSA. That didn't happen until July 20th. Who took the initiative to inform the court after all? I would also like to be clear about this. Then I also had a third question. What standard does third countries apply to determine whether eggs are safe or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u52	I have heard the comments and answers to the questions given by Mrs. and Mr. Ministers. I would like to remind you that we are still in the crisis. At the start of my speech, I asked the ministers to make sure that there was no more fipronil in the department stores. And I didn't hear that guarantee. So I didn't get the assurances I was looking for. That's a first element. The second element is compensation and its modalities. I'm still not convinced. Minister, I expect you to communicate to us as soon as possible the terms of the compensation. Thirdly, you do not reply to the publication of the list of derivatives, as was done in England and France. Be aware that in any case you are going to be caught up in the flow, that you are going to have to publish it, especially since you are committed to full transparency vis-à-vis parliamentarians. So also with regard to the management of this aspect of the problem. The last element is addressed to the President. The agenda included questions attached to the discussion. The minister responded in part in the e-mail that we received during the committee. I stress that some of the issues raised today were related to other issues. I think it should be reserved, if it is not too much to ask for it, the same treatment, that is to say, to get an answer, like what has been addressed to us today. I therefore look forward to an answer to these questions, which remain open. How and when will I get an answer to the supplementary questions I filed?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u53	Mr de Lamotte, last week's questions have become irrelevant because they have been absorbed in the debate. The issues that have been joined today are new issues. Their authors may either consider that they have obtained the answer and withdraw it. Otherwise, after the order of business, the question may be asked if necessary; or it may be transformed into a written question. I propose that you communicate to the secretariat if you wish to turn your question, to which you would not have had an answer during this exchange, into a written question. It'll be your choice.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u54	My line won't be long. There is a great difference of opinion on the different standards and Mr. Ducrame's explanation has not really clarified the matter, I believe. Instead, he added confusion. There is a problem when the surveys are above the standard. Below, we remain in agreement, that is acceptable. The difference in interpretation concerns overruns. I understand that the Minister provided a document that established that the standard at 0.005 mg/kg was not a health hazard indication. That's not true! We're testing rats to see if there's a problem. There is the precautionary principle. When you say in the press that European standards state that we have no problem, that is not true! You're lying! The European standard is 0.005 mg/kg! You can come with further studies, but you mention the European standard allowing you to say that there was no problem until 8 August. That is where the political stake lies! The European standard is 0.005 mg/kg! You are free to question it, but in this case it is important to be consistent. For it is this standard that makes it possible to decide, rightly, that the eggs will not be sold but that they will be destroyed. To be placed on the market, you follow the figure of 0.005 mg/kg but to remove them, you follow another standard of 0.72 mg/kg! Explain this to the citizens! If eggs containing 0.005 mg/kg are not put into circulation, this is an indication. It is true that a number of studies are conducted in rats to demonstrate that, by dividing twice per cent, the precautionary principle is followed and that chronic exposure to this product could lead to problems. You say, "We make a giant omelette in Malmedy and we eat it all at once." So you take the standard of 0.72 mg/kg. This is not today's debate. The precautionary principle would have been 0.005 mg/kg and I would point out that in the other countries there is information on the subject. Why do you not simply inform consumers of all batches with a standard above 0.005 mg/kg? This is done in the Netherlands. We can still inform consumers. The issue is very clear: you want to communicate precisely to say that nothing has happened. It's not serious! I have already explained everything during my speech to go. We will not agree today, but that will be the issue of a debate that must continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u55	Mr President, I too have just asked a few questions to which I have not received an answer. Firstly, I asked a few questions that were the same as Mrs Dierick's questions. So I will not repeat them. I also asked a question about the very small number of checks on auto-checking. Is it true that a number of companies only got control every three years? That was also a question from my colleague from the sp.a. There were also my two important questions about the policy paper, which I had already asked last time. In the 2016 and 2017 policy papers of Minister Borsus, now Minister Ducarme, it was announced that there would be a review of the regulations at European level on the safety of the food chain. There would also be the evaluation of the BFSA as well as a reflection exercise, in which a reorganisation of the services would be considered together with the Ministry of Health. These seem to me to be two very important questions that I have not heard. Finally, I have not heard anything about my question to Mr Diricks on the ADI standard and the prevention of long-term toxicity.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u56	New questions were asked. I will give the floor to the minister or Mr. Diricks to respond.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u57	Firstly, if there is a problem with a company, we will inform the technical services of the Flemish government. We have been doing this for years as an inspection service for matters at our level which have an effect on matters for which they are responsible. That's the way we've always agreed. It will, of course, be possible to see how we organise things in the future. That question is still open. Secondly, a question has been asked about auto-checking. I thought I answered that. The agency's checking the auto-checking. If non-conformitys are identified, we will act. Depending on the gravity of the non-conformitys, such action may include a warning or a report. Every year we also withdraw the recognition of companies. Usually that's because the auto-control system isn't okay. If a company does not respect the obligation to notify, then a PV will automatically follow for that company. So I think we do control, sanction and even withdraw the approval or approval of a company. This happens every year for a number of companies. Thirdly, RASFF is subject to a number of rules and we are trying to apply them as well as possible. Since the first product was blocked and never placed on the market, there was no reason to notify it via RASFF. It is only when we know that products have ended up in other Member States that we are drawing up RASFF alerts. Besides, we send and receive hundreds of RASFF alerts every day. So you cannot claim that we never inform Europe. This always depends on the content of the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u58	Mr President, may I interrupt briefly? Do you not have to inform Europe when you launch a judicial investigation and go to the courthouse?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u59	Everything depends on the subjects you deal with.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u60	What if the subject is food safety?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u61	On 20 July we have the European...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u62	And on June 2nd, you guys went to the parquet.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u63	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u64	On 19 July we went to the parquet.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u65	But on June 2nd, you knew, and didn't you also inform the court?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u66	That's the whole story. On 19 July we had the parquet immediately. The search took place on July 20 and the same day, on the basis of the determination made in connection with the search we did the RAS. So the same day, because it was found that there was a fraud there with a potential risk to public health. The same day a RAS was indeed sent.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u67	But last time, in the previous committee, we were told that on 2 June the auto-control report said that there was a problem with fipronil and that it went straight to court.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u68	It's not said and it's not written.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u69	About the individuals, I understand those people are worried. Normally they were supplied by a veterinarian. So if a private individual has a question about a product he owns and bought through his veterinarian, it is best that he contacts his veterinarian, because there are so many products. We don't know what was just bought from that vet. As far as the problem of the police is concerned, and I believe that this question came from you too, we contacted the judicial police and we were told from there that there was no support. In those files, we often have people from the judicial police. It is out of the discussion with the various actors that ultimately the investigating judge intervened and issued a search warrant. We are very transparent about the inspection frequency. On our website there is a list of the inspection frequency for all companies. Some companies are audited every year, others every two or three years. We're very transparent about that. Anyone can consult that list. At some point there are people and resources. We are trying to use these people for risk-related inspections, as imposed by European regulations. Then I want answers to the question about the laboratories. We worked with one lab that passed our results. From a certain level, those results were estimated values. Two of those estimated values were not reliable enough. We had to put that right afterwards. The lab then developed an additional method of analysis, which was then validated. I repeat, the decision to release or block a company was never questioned. It is important to be aware of this, because I have the impression that there are misunderstandings about this, that we always block a company if there is a breach of the MRL and then remove all products from the market. I don't know if that's been made clear enough here. Any product, whether it is an egg, an egg product or whatever, if it does not meet the standards, it must always be withdrawn from the market. That's not a new rule we've invented now, that's a rule we always apply. That has to be clear. On our website you can see how many calls we organize. In principle, we should not do so, but the company should organise the recall. However, we are watching to see that these calls are organized. So it's not like we're just gonna let some things go. Look at our website. There's plenty of calls on it. So if we have to, we do. As far as the statistical story is concerned, I think we can talk about it bilaterally, because I have to try to understand where we want to go, but I am certainly prepared...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u70	We can have a beer later. Or peel an egg with each other.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u71	I'll buy you a drink.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u72	Yeah, two things about AFSCA. First, how is the difference in counter-expertise justified? Secondly, when this exceeds the standard of health toxicity, you must inform the European Union. It's not a possibility, it's an obligation. However, on 2 June, the information is 1.2 ppm you have.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u73	Yes, but when we made official samples, we no longer had this high content.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u74	So this means that you consider that self-checking that is checked by a laboratory is not enough, that it is not official?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u75	We must act on the basis of official samples.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u76	Yes, but self-control is part of your control system. Here you say that what comes out of self-control, 1.2 ppm, is not enough, is not official. So, is there a problem with self-control? I'm trying to understand.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u77	That is, when you have a result of self-control, it is information that an operator must give us. As always, in a laboratory result that is received, there are two different things. The first is that the result at 1,2 is actually found in a broken egg. What information is there at that time? It's a result that comes from a test done abroad. On the quality of the result, we do not know but in any case, it warns us directly. What do we do then? The next day, we're on our way. We're blocking the eggs. We're asking to block everything that's already gone and we're picking up samples. These samples went to the Netherlands for analysis. Meanwhile, we have the results of analyses, more or less a few days later. You always say that we have other results of analyses but this is again the results of the operator's self-control, i.e. that if you look at the precise chronology, it is the 8. Maybe I'm wrong, but it's 8. We get consistent results from our samples, the ones we took. They are fully compliant. The break that continues self-control says, the 9, no longer with a level of 1.2 but with much lower rates, that it does not understand the difference between the two results. On the farm, this is consistent. In the breakage, it's not in conformity. At that time, there are two hypotheses. Either there's a lab problem, or there's a traceability problem. That is the reality. Then we ask ourselves the question and we question the laboratory. What's the problem? This problem is not the same as the other one. The first Dutch laboratory brought us fipronil but in fact, in the laboratories, with normal methods, the result must be fipronil + fipronil sulfone (it is a metabolic of fipronil). The Dutch laboratory did not report the result of fipronil sulfone in our samples. When we realized the inconsistency of the two results of the two laboratories (of the breakage and our samples), we asked the Dutch laboratory to repeat the test with fipronil sulfone, which gave the results of 14. From then on, we were able to see. If you analyze all the results of this period, with eggs laid at this time in the contaminated company, we have variations or in any case no result reproduces 1.2. Mr Nollet, since you have all the documents, you have seen that on the analysis report it is entered 1.2 with a measurement uncertainty of +/- 0.6. It's on the newsletter. In fact, we don't know what the result is. It can be 0.6 as well as 1.2, as well as 1.8. I agree with you. But all the results obtained a posteriori are 0.3, 0.4,... They do not tend to 1.2. They tend to be about 0.6. Therefore, because we play a lot on this aspect, at that time we are not in a situation that exceeds the ARfD. The European regulations on ARfD clearly state when a pesticide notification is to be made. And that's when we get past the ARFD. This is exactly the assessment of the situation with all the results of the laboratories received, with the uncertainties of measures that exist and the application of the rules on the notification of traces.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u78	I can follow you in the reasoning and thank you for the clarifications on 8 and 9. I didn't understand it was the breakage on one side and the other. But it doesn't matter. There are non-compliant situations after that. This is for the non-conformity aspect. My question relates exclusively to the first result. [[It's like you don't trust this first result.]] If this first result was the second or third, you should have reported it. However, according to my reading, the European system requires you to report that a result of more than 0.73 is in your official control system. I see that this is not your case, but I consider that the result of 1,2 does not serve as an alarm signal enough for you. It's part of the general control system you were talking about. I think we're late. In my opinion, this is pointless, because even if there is a margin of error – it can be 0.6 as 1.8, you said yourself – a result of 1.2 is a sufficient signal to send it to Europe, even if Europe says that it will wait to see. I consider you wronged, because you had strong information with the result of 1.2. That's my first question. So you have my point of view and you have given the details that make it possible to understand the situation well. Thank you. I would like you to be able to be specific about the other aspect: counter-expertise.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u79	It's very technical. I'm not a lab specialist, I'm more of a control guy. The situation is that every laboratory has an interval over which the quality of the reporting is very precise. The first laboratory, at the time we asked him to test the eggs, was very accurate in an interval that covered the MRL, above the MRL and below the MRL, around 0.005. It was very precise up to very low below. Above, it was very precise at the level of quantification, up to 0.0125. This means that within this margin, the results are safe and validated in the context of accreditation. At our request, they reported an estimate. This is not to the point, because it is outside the validation-accreditation interval. But in the context of the first results, we asked them to give us an estimate to get an idea of what we were facing. In this estimate, there were actually two samples – this was limited to two samples, and subsequently rechecked – for which there was a difference between the estimate and the reality. These are the two samples we found in the counter-expertise, which arrived at the laboratory at the same time. Why was this problem in calculating the estimate? It's with the lab that we'll have to try to understand. That's the reason for the problem that happened on August 8, anyway, last Tuesday.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u80	So, the result you keep in fine is that of counter-expertise.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u81	All the tests were repeated, especially at the level of this laboratory, with the new method, i.e. with a much higher quantification and, there, the results are correct.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u82	And that's the problem because he's superior.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u83	It actually exceeds 0.072.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u84	0.072-0.073. In any case, I thank you for these explanations. This raises for you and of course for us the question of the credibility of what you call the first estimates. However, I assume that all the rest of the first tests were carried out using the same methodology.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u85	No. Six.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u86	But is it the same method that has been used since it is a problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u87	We changed the lab.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u88	We changed the lab. We went back to the Netherlands. Subsequently, the first laboratory expanded its range of reliability and results. So, the problem has been solved. He landed at first, for a certain period of time. Subsequently, it was settled and the analyses were repeated on the previous six farms.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u89	Thank you for that clarification. Mr Minister, I would like to know why, like France and Great Britain, the name and list of products are not published and they are not forced to be withdrawn. I am thinking here of the waffles that were withdrawn from the sale in France and the mayonnaise in Great Britain. On the other hand, Mr.Ducarme, I would like you to clarify your disagreement with your French counterpart regarding the month of April. I would like your clarifications to be as clear as those of the AFSCA.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u90	Mr President, I think we have been as clear as possible in this exchange. We gave, Maggie De Block and myself, the maximum number of answers beyond those that had also been given in writing. I'll join you on what was indicated earlier. If there were still questions, they would obviously have to be filed in writing. I want to give Mr. de Lamotte the assurance he misses. In fact, when I say to you, Mr de Lamotte, Mr Nollet, that Belgium is one of the only European countries to have tested the whole egg industry, we are obviously talking about eggs that are directly consumable, processed eggs to which you referred, Mr Nollet, but we are also talking about meat. 266 farms have been tested! We were talking about two levels. We are therefore in relation to this well at the level of our neighbours and even beyond, since, as I indicated, we are one of the only countries to have carried out these checks on the whole sector. That is what allows us to say today, I repeat, that all the Belgian eggs that are produced on the market are guaranteed eggs without fipronil. This is something that I would have hoped the opposition would have raised. We can do politics. But I have not heard you say positively that, indeed, we are one of the only countries that has tested the whole egg industry! It seems to escape you. Yet it is a fundamental element that allows us to be reassuring today; on the contrary, perhaps a number of your comments that are probably continuing to dramatize. One may wonder whether some are not satisfied that the situation is under control. Because she is! It seems that you are not satisfied that we were able to produce control over the entire industry in this way. Let me take this up because we are one of the only countries in Europe that has tested its entire industry, a fact on which I like to insist so that it does not escape you. As far as the measures are concerned, Mr Nollet, you have been more nuanced in your last speech. You have no longer spoken of peanuts about the measures which have been, I repeat, well received. We are happy about this, not for ourselves, but for the sector. It's about staying tuned. We will determine the award criteria as soon as possible in the context of the bill that will allow us to indemnify. This is also an important decision on the part of the government, which must, however, receive a visa from Europe. We want to compensate a sector for the socio-economic shock it encounters. I hope you support this approach. Like you, I am sensitive to one element, we will have to go quickly and work in the most concrete way possible. I hope that we can continue to do so in consultation with the Regions. We will see what the Regions are able to do in this context. That, Mr President, is what I wanted to say today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u91	Thank you, Minister. I have two more brief requests, one from Mr Nollet and one from Mr de Lamotte.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u92	Mr President, Mr Ducrame took the floor, but he did not answer the question. Like Britain and France, will he publish the list? I just want to know that. I do not want to go back to the other issues. Mr Ducrame, I would like to put the question to you, looking straight into your eyes. Will the government, like France and Britain, publish the list of problematic egg products and derivatives so that consumers are informed and products are withdrawn from sale? Or are you going to do nothing?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u93	Mr. Nollet, Mr. Diricks said that if products were to exceed the standard of 0.005, the Agency would, as usual, do a re-check of the products and they would be removed from the market. In France, the products were removed from the sale, but a recall was not made. Only in-store products were removed from the sale.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u94	What you have just said about France is also true about Britain?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u95	I don't know. They asked for information on why they took this step or whether only waffles from the Netherlands were involved?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u96	It's in France.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u97	They have not yet received a response.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u98	We are therefore waiting to have the information for Great Britain.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u99	They have already done reviews on derivatives and if it turns out that some do not meet the standard, they will also be removed from the sale. As Mr Diricks has said, the Agency regularly proceeds in this way for other reasons. The procedure exists. Why should a procedure that exists be changed?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u100	Mr President, I have a problem of understanding with the minister. Minister, a line has an upstream and downstream line. The whole is called the value chain. You're saying the egg line has been fully tested. I believe that this will only be the case once the processed products have also been tested. AFSCA performed cross-sectional tests. Among the affected countries, Belgium may be the only country to have done so. That's positive. I recognize it and I'm telling you. There is no contradiction between us. But Belgium appears to be lagging behind with regard to vertical tests. France and Great Britain publish batch numbers of derivatives (mayonnaise, waffles and others). I told you earlier. Is it not imperative for Belgium to do the same? Is it not a question of applying the same precautionary measures, in a consistent, uniform manner, on eggs and on what is done with eggs? Is there still a risk with derivatives (mayonnaises, waffles, salads or others) in the shelves, even if it is with very little product contested or illegal, as is fipronil? Second element. There may be risks, depending on the import markets, that there will be products in our shelves made with eggs that are not from our home. The question remains. I'll send her back to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u101	Minister, can you clarify to our colleague?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u102	I thank the honourable Member for finally recognizing this positive element at almost 8 p.m. It is clear, as Maggie De Block has indicated with regard to all the provisions for the withdrawal of processed products, that if rates were found to exceed the maximum limit, the MRL would obviously be taken in that context too. It is not because we indicate that we are emerging from the peak of the fipronil crisis that we are going to stop being vigilant. With AFSCA, we will continue to produce all the necessary tests. We will continue to monitor all eggs, all processed products and carry out systematic tests which will naturally give us the opportunity to assess whether or not we are achieving satisfactory results for fipronil. It is understood that vigilance will be at all times. We must not let any doubt arise about this. That is why the words we use are wisely chosen when we indicate that we are among those who have gone the furthest to this day. We will continue in this direction. I can tell you quite frankly, and I will point this out again in my contacts with my counterparts on the question of the free market, exports and imports, that all the countries that are affected today by fipronil are inspired by what we have done about the control of eggs, intended for direct consumption, processed eggs as for meat. I know that other countries do not take this path, that they do not do, as we have done, a monitoring that goes beyond the suspected perimeter. And this is obviously going to be a problem. We must be able to ensure that our economic partner countries do what we have done, that is, ensure that their eggs are perfectly healthy and produce guaranteed eggs without fipronil.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-17-54-commissie-ic721x.u103	Thank you. Colleagues, can the Co-Chair and I consider the exchange of views to be over? [[Sentiment]] On behalf of all, I would like to thank the Minister, the Minister, Mr Diricks and Mr Dochy for their participation in our work.
