ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip192x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip192x.u2	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 24 October 2017, I propose that the plenary session start at 14 am 00 with the report of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the circumstances that led to the terrorist attacks of 22 March 2016 at Brussels National Airport and at Maalbeek Metro Station in Brussels, including the evolution and approach of the fight against radicalism and terrorist threats, Nos 1752/6 to 10, and then oral questions. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 24 October 2017, I propose that you start the plenary session at 2 p.m. with the report of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry to examine the circumstances that led to the terrorist attacks of 22 March 2016 at Brussels-National Airport and Maelbeek Metro Station in Brussels, including the evolution and management of the fight against radicalism and terrorist threat, Nos. 1752/6 to 10, followed by oral questions. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip192x.u3	Mr President, as far as the order of business is concerned, we have learned of the decision of the Conference of Presidents on speaking times. We have not been able to attend the committee of inquiry and I regret that parties that do not form a group can only have five minutes to speak. Why not give us ten minutes to develop a reasoning? What is the point of this decision? I understand that the largest groups have 40 minutes, but we could have decided to give us 10 minutes of speaking time to develop our reasoning. This situation is not very correct, Mr President. In addition, we could have been notified more quickly by telephone so that we could make arrangements.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip192x.u4	Mr Hedebouw, I take note of your position. If each of us makes a small effort, we should not hold accounts of apothecaries to reach an agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip192x.u5	By letter of 20 October 2017, the Chair of the Assembly of the French Community Commission shall transmit the text of a motion of censure on a conflict of interest adopted by the plenary on 20 October 2017 referred to in Article 32 of the ordinary law of 9 August 1980 on the reform of the institutions. By letter of 20 October 2017, the President of the Assembly of the French Community Commission transmitted the text of a motion adopted in plenary session on 20 October 2017 concerning a conflict of interest as defined by Article 32 of the ordinary law of 9 August 1980 on institutional reforms. The conflict of interest concerns the draft law amending the law on the exercise of health professions, coordinated on 10 May 2015, No. 2652/1. The conflict of interest concerns the draft law amending the Act on the Exercise of Health Care Professions, coordinated on 10 May 2015, No. 2652/1. In accordance with Article 102 No. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber, I shall arrange for consultation with the Assembly of the French Community Committee. In accordance with Rule 102, No. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, I shall organise a consultation with the Assembly of the French Community Commission. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip192x.u6	The meeting's open. The discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Mrs Onkelinx and Mr De Roover, Mr Pivin and Mr Verherstraeten.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip192x.u7	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, all those who worked in the Attentats Committee have been in camera for a year and a half: in camera, doors and windows closed; in camera to protect state security; in camera to contain our emotions. A year and a half of hard work for the deputies; the four experts, all brilliant; the colleagues of the House and the groups whose excellence was measured; the interpreters, translators and bailiffs who followed us step by step. A year and a half, 163 meetings, thousands of hours of work, preparation, analysis and reflection with an irreducible determination, that of doing useful work. Useful work to honour and support victims and their families. On 22 March 2016, the attacks in Brussels bloody our country: 32 people were murdered, 340 wounded and as many families mourned and bereaved. A useful work for our fellow citizens immersed in fear and questioning their way of life. These men and women, both direct and non-direct victims of terrorism, who have shown resilience despite anger and suffering. A useful work for our relief services that have been remarkable in the care and support of victims. Useful work for our intelligence and security services to further improve their practices. A useful job, finally, for our country. We have seen its strengths and fragility, and we have had a firm determination to reduce the risk of terrorist attacks by making specific, realistic and ambitious recommendations at the same time. In 4,000 pages of hearings and reports, we essentially wanted to answer four questions. To help us do this, we interviewed 199 witnesses and analyzed a considerable amount of documents. First question: what happened on the day of the attacks? What care for victims? When are we aware that we are facing terrorist acts? What were the strengths and weaknesses in the work of the Crisis Centre, our emergency and response services, the systems used? It was the coordination of relief and response teams, the networking of power stations 112, the improvement of communication between services and with regard to victims and families that were the central points of our recommendations. Some of them have already been implemented such as BE-Alert or the maxi PIM. Others still need to be implemented. Thus, in order to avoid the long and painful search of victims by their families, we want to see a central system of registration of victims that allows families to be immediately told which hospital their loved ones are in. Another recommendation still needs to be implemented: the simplification of communications via the ASTRID system. Remember the problems encountered on March 22 at the level of communication via the ASTRID radios. The network was saturated because it was used by too many stakeholders, including persons who could be recalled to service and who, as a precaution, fortunately turned on their radio. We therefore felt that the communication patterns should be changed, for example, to reserve the use of a specific communication channel for operational personnel only in the field. Second question: how were the victims and their relatives treated on 22 March, but also in the following months? In fact, we were called to order by the victims who, formed in association, requested a hearing. And it was quite legitimate that we heard them, after regretting not having heard them earlier. I must say that their story literally upset the commission. The difficulties they encountered constituted an electroshock for all of us. We have tried to respond to these pitfalls, in particular by providing for a one-stop shop so that they no longer have to systematically open new files, tell over and over again the story of their experiences every time so painful, prove again and again their status as victims. A bill on the allocation of allowances has been passed and an inter-federal WG (Working Group) has been put in place, but there is still much work to be done to put in place an essential recommendation of this report to establish a comprehensive system for the care of victims of attacks, a system comparable to the French system. It provides for lump sum compensation, paid within days of the attacks and, subsequently, full coverage of health care costs and other consequences associated with the attacks. We must take inspiration from it and implement it. The third question: how did we get there? How is it that our police and intelligence services were unable to anticipate and detect the ever-increasing threat? For ten months, we worked on security architecture. These are thousands of pages of documents transmitted by our services, reports from the oversight committees, information on ongoing investigations. We went on two lines of work. On the one hand, an in-depth analysis of the authors' journey. The Abdeslam brothers, the El Bakraoui brothers and the more particular dossier of Osama Atar. On the other hand, we have thoroughly analysed the functioning of our police and intelligence services. From the analysis of the authors' journey, we were able to identify some major problems that led to cross-cutting recommendations. Thus, in the case of the Abdeslam brothers, I must say that we were stunned by the management of the red files! Let us be very clear immediately: it is not the men and women involved, on the contrary. And to take the example of the Terrorism Division of the Judicial Police in Brussels, these professionals are simply excellent and work day and night in unbearable conditions, with equipment often downgraded or outmoded. No, what is at stake is the lack of manpower and investment. Thus, as early as 2014, despite increased capacity, they will no longer be able to deal with all priority issues and need to use other services internally or externally when possible. Red files are from these files for which thorough investigation work is not possible. So we still do something: a contextualization of the parts and elements present, as in the Abdeslam file. Except that the services do not agree on what a contextualization should be. On the basis of a few in-depth elements, while investigative duties are still under way, the judge in charge of the case will close the case without further action. All this gave rise to a series of recommendations, such as the reserved capacity of the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office to fully engage in each case; the filling of deficits, i.e. the filling of police and other services; the introduction of a system of case prioritization and collegial decisions, as is the case in England, where all cases can thus be seriously examined. Another problem raised in connection with these cases is the fact that, despite the reforms that have followed, in particular, the Dutroux case, particularly the integrated police at two levels, the judicial police and the local police are still not talking sufficiently. Thus, in the case concerning the radicalisation of the Abdeslam brothers, when the contextualization report concludes that the elements are not sufficiently substantiated, contrary to what the initial report of the Brussels-West police zone refers to, the judicial police do not make any contact with the local police, in particular with regard to the links between Abdelhamid Abaaoud and Salah Abdeslam, even though these links are mentioned. Our recommendations will therefore plead on several occasions to foster this dialogue and value the work of the community police. During this investigation, the neighbourhood police were not at any time the subject of any finding of deficiency. On the contrary, their work has often been considered to be of high quality. Another issue raised was the debate on whether or not racism existed in the police force. Testimony from the police area of Malines, as well as that of a person named X, has caught our attention since crucial information about Salah and Brahim Abdeslam - on the radicalization of the brothers long before the initial PV, on the Salah Abdeslam cache - have not been treated by lack of confidence. This resulted in a series of recommendations relating to information reports, collaboration between police areas and the federal police, and diversity within the police. As regards the case of Ibrahim El Bakraoui, it is obviously the conflict between the Minister of the Interior and the Belgian liaison officer in Turkey that we have examined and, more generally, the shortcomings of the Belgian-Turkish cooperation. Indeed, we had to find that the expulsion of El Bakraoui was not a single case and that, on the contrary, out of 35 such expulsions, in 21 cases, Belgium had been warned too late. Yet it is this episode that will justify the presentation to the Prime Minister of the resignation of two of the members of his government. After careful analysis of parole, it is above all the revelation of the visit twenty times! - from Osama Atar to his cousins, Khalid and Ibrahim El Bakraoui, in prison, in which we were disconcerted and which led to a recommendation for a much stricter control of visits to prisons, in order to avoid them being an opportunity to radicalize detainees. We have also referred to Osama Atar's case in other respects, in particular with regard to the issuance of a passport in his favour, despite an inverse commitment between the Belgian and Iraqi authorities following his passage into the jails of Abu Ghraib. I will tell you that, in many respects, this issue remains a conundrum for the Commissioners. Overall, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to all these individual dossiers, the hearings highlighted the weakness of the information position of the Sûreté de l'Etat and the military intelligence services in the context of the Paris and Brussels attacks. I say "weak" but it's an understatement! In reality, they knew nothing or almost anything about the vast majority of the authors, while some of them had a common past with public enemy No. 1 since the foiled attack of Verviers, Abdelhamid Abaaoud. Worse still, we found that the military intelligence service had collected information that had not been transmitted to the verification service or processed because it was felt that it was not their mission. It has to change! We do not have to point the finger at individual responsibilities because we know too much about the important engagement of intelligence professionals. On the other hand, we recommend increasing the funding of State Security in order to obtain resources comparable to those available to civilian intelligence services in neighbouring countries. Today, the situation is improving, but we are still far from it, and we must say so. Analysts, translators, men and women are still lacking on the ground, in sensitive places, to ensure a job worthy of the intelligence services of our state. There is also a need to improve the information position of our intelligence agencies, the flow of information between agencies and between them and other security services. This is all the more crucial in a small country like ours, and in the face of the terrible power of destruction of terrorists. How can we accept that everyone is doing his little "poppy" in his corner and is content with his meagre resources instead of sharing knowledge? We fervently hope for the establishment of a common platform for all civil security and military security services. They have been signing collaborative protocols for years. They promise fidelity in the exchange of information, but that is not enough. Without going through the merger of the two agencies, and despite the will of some Commissioners - and of myself, I admit - we are proposing instead the pooling of certain services and missions such as phenomena analysis, information coordination, strategic coordination, and social intelligence, i.e. the monitoring of the web and social networks. We also propose the pooling of some important administrative services, such as translation, which is essential in the files we are dealing with. The fourth big question: how can young people who grew up in our neighbourhoods, who gave the appearance of integration, turn against their fellow citizens? We have thus addressed the aspect of radicalism. I say "addressed" – because radicalisation, like other social phenomena, is an eminently complex subject, whose causes are innumerable. We have not understood the phenomenon from a geopolitical point of view, and that remains to be done. On the other hand, neither the analysis of social causes nor the analysis of religious causes have been excluded. My colleagues will talk to you about the spread of radical Islam in our country. I'll just point out two things. The President of the French Republic, after the attacks in Paris, had just words to describe the actions of the terrorists. This has been confirmed in this Parliament, in particular by our Prime Minister. "They are," he said, "at the service of a mad cause and a betrayed god." In short, it is not Islam that is involved, but its diversion, its falsification to justify violent radicalism. Then, of course, we talked about mosques, although no one knows today that mosques are less and less frequented by young people, and less even by radicalised youth, who are instead looking for their truths on the Internet and in their social relations. I would like to stress the impact of the prison on radicalism and violent radicalism. Prisons, ladies and gentlemen, are a place where withdrawal from one another and the search for protectors and savers are frequent. These are places which, in essence, create radicalism. Prison is a place of life where resentment and injustice are exacerbated. We have, on the one hand, highlighted the importance of decent living conditions in places of detention in order to reduce these resentments and, on the other, stressed the importance of filling empty prison time. Recommendations were also made on the essential nature of reintegration work during and after detention. Finally, without forgetting the victims, not to mention the past, it is towards the future that we must look at. Our hearings have shown that more and more researchers and actors on the ground consider that we could be faced with a revolutionary type of movement and that divisions are becoming increasingly raging in our society. We have to take this problem with the body. It is our duty to reenchant the world for our children, to give them hope for the future and to offer them opportunities. To do so, we must work together for living together. Everyone should turn back the sleeves and improve the daily life of his/her fellow citizen, refuse rejection and amalgam, work towards inclusion in society and in the commune as well as the fight against ghettoisation in neighbourhoods and schools, the rejection of discrimination in terms of employment. It is essential and normal that these young people, whatever they may be, feel fully involved in the society in which they live. In this regard, we also recalled that one of the answers could be participation in a citizen service. That, ladies and gentlemen, is the many themes that have been discussed and which often lead to a left-wing and a right-wing invective. I am particularly pleased that we have been able to agree on a general agreement on all the recommendations. We owe it, of course, to the quality of the experts, to the good will of everyone and to the virtues of the dialogue between Members, but also – I must say – to the chairman of our Attentats Committee, who managed with intelligence the patience, the carrot and the stick: Patrick, u was een uitstekend voorzitter. Bedankt! [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude. Where have we been? What were we doing, each of us, when on 22 March 2016 in the morning, in Zaventem first, at the Maelbeek metro station then, the bombs exploded? How did we experience these horror scenes, these photos, these videos, these shocking testimonies, those tears, those eyes of despair? Victims and their loved ones will have to live with memories, stigma, trauma. For them, words of compassion are necessary, but not sufficient. There is a need to understand and act to defend our country, to defend our democracy and our freedoms. There are months of work to strengthen our security and intelligence architecture. It is for months and years to fight radicalism, to prevent it first of all from being deployed in violent action, but also to give means, especially to our young people, in all their diversity, to refuse community, religious or cultural withdrawal, to be fully respected and respectful of others, to prefer life, love, hope to death, rancour and brutality. The alluvials that hatred is laying in our neighborhoods, here or elsewhere, are of such importance that it forces us to move beyond our square meadows to work in unity. Take action, and now, for the victims. Indubitably, Prime Minister, answers have been provided, but there is still a long way to go. "For us," they said, "time becomes unreal: the attack, sometimes it feels like it was still yesterday. On the other hand, other things like life before the attack, you have the impression that it was an eternity ago." Or, "When this happens, you have to give the victim your hand and don't let her go until she rebuilds. It can last two months, six months, six years. We don't know how long a person will be rebuilt. You have to give him your hand, you have to go with him, don't let go." That's our duty, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip192x.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to confine myself to the role of reporter, as I have been asked, but allow me to point out, on the edge of the report and in line with the previous speaker, that we have worked very intensively together. She has already mentioned figures. The number of hours, the number of meetings and the number of witnesses questioned are indicative. At the start of the committee, I said in an interview: 'I hope that our political colours will not disappear', 'of course 'but that they may fade'. That is indeed what happened during the workings of this committee. Not every disagreement has been resolved. It couldn't be. This remains a place of democracy, and therefore a place of exchange of different views. I believe, however, that we have submitted a report on this subject, which is the translation of the way in which we should deal with this phenomenon as such, in particular by looking for the basic values which unite us all. Then one must also dare to join the consensus at some point. This report is therefore a kind of response to those who threaten our society. The good cooperation was for me, and I think it was a very pleasant observation for many fellow Members of this House. I will bring some aspects of the report to your attention. Let me start with the first concerns and deal with them at the time when the attacks took place. With this report we would like to express our thanks and admiration for the rapid and professional intervention of the emergency services. They have had to work in, happily, unseen circumstances. They have had to improvise very often. Once again, I say: 'lucky' they had no experience of this kind of circumstance. They have had to do so under the continuing threat of new attacks. They, literally, didn't know what was hanging over their heads. We have been able to identify a huge social commitment among the aid workers. The positive role of all the aid workers, on all the echelons, and also that of the military, at the time and the place of the attacks, must convince us all that we have strong structures in this respect. However, these procedures can also be improved. The perfection is not of this world. If, for example, we see that the identification of victims has been difficult, inter alia because of the problem of professional secrecy, we, as a committee, not only do we see this, but we believe that an automated and comprehensive registration system can undoubtedly help to take important steps forward. The equipment used by emergency services is, of course, of the utmost importance in these circumstances. Perhaps, in the past, insufficient account has been taken of the fact that these materials should also be used in the context of a bombing. There too we may have thought too much at certain times that evil would not affect us. The victims, and this is what the essence of the matter is, were, of course, at the heart of the events. They were also heard in public meetings. In addition, there have been informal contacts, including on behalf of the President. We were very impressed with those testimonies, just as we were very impressed by the visit to the emergency services. One can look at all this in a very technical way. This has also happened, but these people have added a dimension that has greatly increased our involvement. In those circumstances, it is therefore up to the government to make every effort to minimise both physical and psychological, administrative and legal concerns. The suffering cannot be undone, but it is in this context that we called for the creation of a unique victim's window as early as January, so that each victim is assigned his or her own reference person to assist him or her in all difficult procedures. We may forget that making resources available is one thing, but bringing people into those resources in difficult circumstances, and accompanying them, is another matter. Perhaps there is room for improvement in what has been done in this area. The committee makes a number of very specific recommendations in this area: setting up a task force representing all the bodies involved, as well as the victim associations; providing legal aid to victims; maintaining the victims' cell of the public prosecutor's office and making victims' associations fully involved in this process. We also believe that this is a concrete recommendation, and that a system should be set up to provide immediate assistance and compensation for victims, so that the public authorities can then be responsible for recovery from insurance companies. Whoever is the victim of such events can hardly be left by us alone in this sometimes difficult procedural struggle with insurance institutions among others. In the course of the long work, we have been introduced to a handbook full of abbreviations, from which we have not always come to our senses. We have tried very hard to do so. When we got the organogram of certain institutions at the start of our work, my first thought was that the problem has already been clearly highlighted here, namely that the organogram was very complicated. This has also been demonstrated in practice. The previous speaker also pointed out that cooperation between services was problematic at certain times. With regard to the OCAD, the National Task Force and the Crisis Centre, I should explain to most of us here, and especially to those who did not sit on that committee, who is what and who does what. Of course, I commend the reading of the report; in any case, the Committee of Inquiry has established that coherence and cooperation between these services can certainly be improved. The recommendations may be simple, but they serve to improve cooperation immediately. One of them is the co-location, the physical assembly of these institutions, so that they can get in touch with each other in an easier way and so that costs can be shared. Let us be honest, the resources are always scarce and must be used in the most efficient way. Communication systems need to be better coordinated. Then there is another element in the recommendations that deserves exposure, namely the information position of the Crisis Centre. In these circumstances, the Crisis Centre is a very important player and must, of course, have all the relevant information to suggest the right decisions. We have found that the Crisis Centre sometimes has to run a little too long after the facts. An important part of the operation of course also concerns the source of evil. We have studied radical Islam and the Great Mosque, which immediately received extra attention in the media. We have heard a lot of experts in a broad field there. As the previous speaker said, it is also a very complicated problem. One can never label one or the other as a solution or cause. For example, most experts believed that violent radicalism cannot be reduced to a purely religious matter. The religious dimension, we must not forget, however, is increasingly central as individuals reach the point where they may engage in violent action. The influence of religions in general, but especially of Islamic fundamentalist movements in particular, on the increase in radicalism is clearly established. Radicalism can be the stepping stone to violent radicalism, and it would inspire us wrong to close our eyes to that. Of course, this has been stressed by the Prime Minister and by other authorities, for example, and we must be careful not to put all members of a particular community in one pocket. In this way, we are actually responding to the agenda of the radical Islamists, who want to strengthen that line between them and the rest of society. I believe that we should not fall into that trap, and it is also the conviction of the committee that we should not fall into that trap. I would like to highlight a number of specific recommendations in this complex area. A legal framework is needed to provide local authorities with information that is present at the OCAD about organisations and associations on their territory, of cities and municipalities, therefore, which may pose a threat to public security or public order. Local authorities have not always been sufficiently informed about this; this has become very clear. More frequent use should be made of existing legal opportunities to act against associations and dissolve them when they disseminate ideas that are contrary to our legislation. There is a legal arsenal, but one can certainly ask whether it is being used sufficiently. The same applies to the use of existing legal possibilities to act against inciting hatred and violence. We believe that there should be a change of direction and that these resources should be used more frequently. The fight against hate preachers must be stepped up. In addition, we cannot make any concessions. As spokesmen of radical or violent Islam invoke their freedom of expression, we say that, in accordance with the case law of the European Court of Human Rights, that is a wrong claim. We can act against that, and we must do so. Safety screening should be carried out systematically in order to avoid the flow of subsidies to organisations that spread violent, radical Islam. This control must not only be carried out in advance; the associations in question must also be monitored on a permanent basis. The recognition of mosques is extremely important for sustainable integration into our society. Transparency and enhanced supervision are only possible in this way. However, recognition can only take place if safety screening can be carried out in an effective manner, with the appropriate information available to the authorities concerned in order to obtain recognition. Recognition procedures should therefore be thoroughly evaluated and improved where appropriate. The functioning of the Muslim executive has also been the subject of lengthy debates. Everyone agrees that it needs to be thoroughly improved so that there is a responsible and accountable interlocutor. In doing so, the commitment must be made that Islam, which is being proclaimed here, respects our Constitution, our laws and values without any doubt. The hearings with the representatives of the Great Mosque have stunned us at certain times. I don't think there's another word for it. They have even given rise to a complaint with the Attorney General of Brussels. We have found that the Salafist-wahabist approach, financed by abroad, and in particular by Saudi Arabia, has an enormous influence on people who are susceptible to such stories. The Committee of Inquiry recommended that the concession agreement with the Grand Mosque be terminated and that the possibility of concluding new agreements in the future should be subject to strict conditions. This means that, as has just been said, Islam must be promoted which is open to all Belgian Muslims and in accordance with our Constitution and our values. Foreign funding, for example, should nevertheless be seen as an argument to prevent recognition or something like that. A final element concerns the execution of sentences. We have looked at the case concerning Ibrahim El Bakraoui, one of the attackers. It concerns a man who committed serious, violent crimes, radicalized in prison, got paroled and slipped through the loopholes of the sentence. On this basis, we have made a number of important recommendations. In our view, the sentence of the criminal court on conditional release and individual special conditions should be more fully justified if this differs from the advice of prison directors or the prosecution. The criminal courts should be able to decide on information that intelligence services are classified as secret today, so that they can act with full knowledge of the file, when they have to decide on release. The verification of conditional release needs to be more thorough. All actors involved should cooperate more efficiently and exchange information. For example, the period between the time when the conditions are violated and the time when the conditional release is revoked should be reduced. After all, we have seen examples there that inspire reflection. Magistrates need to be fully trained in the reality and context of the phenomenon of radicalisation in the past. Ladies and gentlemen, like Mrs Onkelinx, I would also like to thank the experts for their impressive work at times. I have wondered at several moments how quickly and thoroughly they have acted. Without their commitment, we would not have got this far. My thanks also go to the staff, translators, the staff of the various groups. I can also agree perfectly with Mrs Onkelinx's homage to our President, who has never fallen out of his role, especially that of moderator and of man who led the search for consensus, which may have brought him into conflict with everyone, but just shows that he has set himself up as a President should. In Parliament, we sometimes defend positions that are far apart from each other. That has even been demonstrated by the workings of the Committee of Inquiry, fortunately, because that is the essence of democracy. If there is a fundamental threat to the way we live together, then we must have the courage to overcome those political contradictions at least one piece. Within the triangle of structures, resources and personal commitment, we must guarantee our citizens the security and freedom that is possible. I would like to pay tribute to all those who have been involved and have shown that personal commitment, which has been virtuous and is a translation of the attachment of all of us to the democratic society in which we wish to function.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip192x.u9	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, several hundred victims, thirty-two dead people: our country, in times of peace, had never been confronted with an aggression of such violence. In the face of horror, and in order to pay tribute to the victims - and under penalty of having been of no use - the commission of inquiry had to make specific and concrete recommendations. Ladies and gentlemen, the time allocated to us does not allow me, as rapporteur, to address the 1,000 pages of the report of a work begun on 14 April 2016. And, since we had agreed on a collective presentation, on behalf of the MR Group, I will mention four aspects of the Committee's general report, relating to the assistance and relief services component, support for victims, the role of the administrative police in the security architecture and, finally, the fight against the development of radicalism in its local approach. The first phase was closed only four months after the attacks. These 18 recommendations are aimed at strengthening emergency planning, better structuring of services, better monitoring of crisis centre decisions and ensuring better use of communication tools. As evidence of effective collaboration with the federal government, many of them are now being implemented. I will cite four examples. Firstly, we should mention the adoption of the new Brussels-National Special Emergency and Response Plan, and then the maximum IMP (Medical Intervention Plan) applicable in the event of attacks and simultaneous disasters at several sites. Finally, the National Emergency Plan was adopted in May 2016 to better address the terrorist threat. Second, for relief services, the federal government approved the supra-provincial model for emergency centres 112, which now allows them to handle conventional calls when one of them is particularly confronted with a truly urgent situation, which requires more concentration. Thirdly, with regard to the functioning of the crisis centre, two measures have been taken, inter alia, to ensure harmonised decision-making and to shorten the lines of communication. It is the ICMS (Incident & Crisis Management System), installation of a computer tool allowing for the transmission of information in real time for all decisions and for all relevant services and actors, as well as the implementation, at the end of 2017, of the installation, in the same place, of the Crisis Centre and the operational implementation cells, material work of importance, which will nevertheless be completed at the beginning of the year 2020. Fourth, in the area of communications, it is not necessary to recall how problematic it was on 22 March. The Commission has made recommendations, some of which have already been the subject of government initiatives. I am thinking of the financial means complementary to the new contract for the management of the ASTRID network, the extension of its capacity, the priority access to gsm networks for rescue and intervention services, the agreement reached in the Brussels Region for a punctual relaxation of the standards for mobile telephone operators, the introduction, Mr. Minister of the Interior, of the BE-Alert system to the attention of all Belgians, a system to which the municipalities are currently engaged, and finally, the creation of the Blue Light Mobile, i.e. the issuance of 6,000 priority SIM cards for crisis management actors, from the federal level to the local authority. These are essential advances for our assistance and relief services, whose vocations cannot be made without giving them here, and again, a strong tribute for the effective and courageous work carried out on 22 March, with the help – we must remember – of our soldiers, all in favour of the victims, whose support after 22 March was the second part of the report of the commission of inquiry. Of course, the commission received victims or their representatives. It reviewed all victim support mechanisms and identified concrete recommendations. Colleagues, the attention to them had to be total for this aspect which affects men, women and families for ever and ever. Our recommendations include specific legal aid, the organisation of a single statute, the operationality of the insurance subrogation system, the official recognition of associations representing victims, the exemption of inheritance rights and, above all, the establishment of an inter-federal task force composed of the competent federal departments, the Communities and with the participation of victim support associations to be the driving force for the rapid implementation of all recommendations in order to respond to the dispersion of competences between institutional levels and ensure centralized and individualised treatment. This task force was a will of the committee but also a requirement of our group to prevent the victims from being sent back from one administrative department to another for a social, fiscal, care or school problem. The first meeting of this task force, set up by the federal government, was held on 28 June last in the presence of representatives of the victims' associations, as requested by the commission. It was at about the same time in June that we finalized the third part: the security architecture. In this respect, I shall refer only to the action of the administrative police, an action which has its place in the overall approach alongside that of the judicial police. Because some findings have shown that operations need to be clearly improved. In this fight against radicalism and terrorism, the commission recommends that the administrative action of the local police and local authorities - a crucial action because privileged in the work of neighbourhoods, prevention, detection and monitoring of radicalism - be more integrated into judicial cooperation. The establishment of the Canal Plan is an obvious illustration of this need for interdisciplinary cooperation between judicial and administrative services, as was the inclusion, in the new communal law, of an article 134sepies allowing the mayors to close establishments suspected of sheltering terrorist activities and as was also the legal possibility now offered to police areas to arm their police officers. Another example of the need for local strengthening is the CSIL, a local integral security cell, which brings together very different professionals and plays a complementary role to the tasks of judicial bodies. Today, only 152 Belgian municipalities have a CSIL, 112 in Flanders, 27 in Wallonia and 13 in Brussels. The committee of inquiry insists that a CSIL be created in all municipalities, separately or on a supra-local basis. It calls for genuine collaboration between the CSILs on the basis of best practices, harmonizing the rules of operation to facilitate the exchange of information and intensify collaboration between local authorities, social services and prevention services. The final part of the Commission's work is radicalism. It was the MR Group that wanted to include among the Commission's tasks the analysis of the root causes of radicalism in our country, including the impact of foreign policies and integration policies, as well as the analysis of the more specific implantation of this radicalism, and of trends towards community retreat and ghettoization in certain neighbourhoods. This is, of course, a delicate and complex question, but we had to deal with it in order to respond in concrete terms to the legitimate questions of everyone. Irrespective of all the definitions of radicalism, the Commission has decided to make concrete recommendations to structure a local approach to combating this phenomenon. Indeed, there is some certainty: the detection and monitoring of individuals and places in this area requires better consideration of local actors. That is why we recommended the creation of a legal framework enabling local and supra-local authorities to receive all relevant information from OCAM about associations or organisations, whether socio-cultural, cultural or sporting, which could pose a risk to public order and national security. This is why the commission recommended strengthening the monitoring of places of prayer, including unrecognized places of prayer, and strengthening the action of CPAS, through a specific guide on religious radicalism for staff. For the same reasons, the Commission recommends the creation of a centralised and dynamic list of weak signals, fed by and accessible to all the public authorities concerned. I will come back to that in the debate. As for my colleague Mr Richard Miller, he will also raise other points in this area. Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Reform Movement welcomes the work that has been carried out, under a presidency unanimously appreciated, by all political parties, by experts, by collaborators, by translators, but above all by all those who have been interviewed, who have fed the work of the Committee of Inquiry and the conclusions of this report. But if we welcome this work, we also say, ladies and gentlemen, that this work is not an end. It is only a step, which strengthens our determination to fight the enemies of our freedoms, our values and our people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip192x.u10	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as the last rapporteur, I would like to report on our work on foreign victims, the operational organisation of aid, the necessary crossroads for security and the impact of new technologies on the spread of radicalism. Ladies and gentlemen, foreign victims were also to be regretted in the attacks. The Committee of Inquiry points out that aid or compensation measures may vary according to the victim's nationality or place of residence. However, these measures must ensure that the aid or compensation is equivalent regardless of the nationality of the victim and whatever the place of residence of the victim. By opting for a social security system and not for a remuneration rule, our country obviously makes a different arrangement. I refer to the law of 18 July 2017, which clarifies that foreign victims should not be forgotten and that they should continue to contact the Commission for financial assistance to victims of intentional acts of violence and to occasional rescuers. That is a very important point. The Committee of Inquiry also recommends the following. Victims of another nationality should be informed in clear terms and in their language of the possibilities offered to them, in accordance with the provisions of the Law of 28 October 2016, which lays down minimum standards for the rights, support and protection of victims of criminal offences. This information should be provided by the diplomatic and consular services in the country in which the victims reside. For this aspect of support, the Commission will, moreover, be strengthened and financed in the form of financial aid to victims of intentional violence and to occasional rescuers, as has already been done in the meantime. In consultation with the victim associations, it will examine how aid can in principle be paid in capital and can be strengthened for damage that requires follow-up for victims and how to deal with new problems to be faced by victims. Colleagues, the Law of 18 July 2017 also provides for an implementing decision to apply the provisions also to persons who are not of Belgian nationality or are not established here and to the extent that the State of nationality or of their habitual residence does not provide for any solidarity mechanism equivalent to that established by this Act. This is an important step forward for victims of foreign origin. The operational commitment in the field of emergency services in general and its members was particularly high and deserves praise on 22 March 2016. The statements of witness during the hearings also rightly believed them for this commitment. The reinforcement came spontaneously, the night shifts continued to work after their shift and the external teams offered their services to their colleagues. This solidarity proved vital on 22 March 2016. As a result, there was a greater availability at the start of emergency assistance than is normally the case. In the event of a crisis of this magnitude, the first phase is always a reflex phase, especially since not all the envisaged resources and structures can be used immediately. A number of initiatives were taken very quickly at the site of the event and at the establishment of the structures provided for. On 22 March 2016, the start of the federal phase took time. It was soon clear on the premises that the explosions in Zaventem were the work of terrorists. A number of measures were taken quite quickly from the Crisis Centre. The Dir-CP-Ops is responsible for setting up the command posts and organising multidisciplinary assistance. He also takes charge of the other disciplines that are present in the field, namely police, fire brigade, medical component, logistics and information to the population. In principle, this function falls under the fire department discipline. This can cause problems in terrorist attacks, especially when terrorists are still present on the ground or when explosives still pose a direct risk. Then the investigation and other administrative and judicial acts must be carried out simultaneously, which requires unit in command and specific coordination. As noted earlier, the leadership can be better transferred to the discipline police. The Committee of Inquiry therefore recommends that the principle of unity of command be better guaranteed in all circumstances. The Dir-CP-Ops has the general management of all departments, assisted by five directors, each of whom has one of the responsibilities laid down in the five disciplines. As it is important in the event of a terrorist attack that there should be coordination between the security, aid and judicial authorities, the role of the Dir-CP-Ops should fall under the police discipline, in close cooperation with the other disciplines. It is useful, if possible, to set up the CP-Ops at a fixed location, as well as to provide alternative options, plan and equip it. Keeping an electronic log can bring added value. Colleagues, I also refer to the Royal Decree of 1 May 2016, issued by the Government, which partly responds to these comments, but which still needs to be further adapted. In addition, during the work of the Committee of Inquiry, it became clear that there is a strong need to examine what other security services have in order to cooperate efficiently. There were many possibilities for filling this need, such as exchanging liaison officers, transferring data from one department to another and making each other's databases accessible. Several services were thus given access to the ANG of the police. This gave rise to parallel information, insufficient flow, insufficient contextualisation of the information, and delay and errors due to the manual transmission of data. The Committee of Inquiry considers that setting up a crossroads bank offers an alternative and better solution. This does not mean the creation of a new database, but a synergy platform managed by the different safety authorities concerned. The aim is to avoid duplication or unnecessary centralisation of information from existing databases. It is precisely the intention that the relevant information available in the various databases should be shared in an integrated and secure manner, with respect for everyone's autonomy. The police, Justice, OCAD, State Security, ADIV, prison, Foreign Affairs and CFI should participate in this crossroads bank. All participating departments should be represented in the Founding Body. The concrete development can also be built on iPolice developments, as well as on the knowledge and experience gained at the Crossroads Bank of Social Security and the eHealth platform. This promotes rapid operationalisation at a minimum cost and encourages the mutual trust of all relevant authorities. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the impact of new technologies on the spread of radicalism. The Committee of Inquiry has examined this impact. It plays a very important but not exclusive role in spreading violent radicalism. We must approach this within the policy from the point of view of prevention, but also from the point of view of repression. Given the cross-border impact of these technologies, the measures must be delivered and applied at both national and international level. This means that Belgium must play a leading role in Europe, which does not mean that the effort must go beyond the European level and must also be directed towards other countries outside Europe. Indeed, some countries play a key role in spreading extreme radicalism. The Committee of Inquiry also draws attention to the complex link between new technologies and radicalism, as well as to the possible preventive and repressive actions in this area. It recommends that the best possible cooperation be achieved between all relevant public administrations, not only at national level but also at international external level. This means, among other things, that all resources must be pooled. The Committee believes that cooperation between public and private actors in the fight against radicalism should be strengthened through new technologies, with a view to both ethics and self-regulation, as well as voluntary public-private partnerships, as well as obligations linked to sanctions. We therefore recommend that Belgium, at European level, call for the EU to negotiate such an agreement with the main private companies. We also recommend that private operators be asked to provide their systems with access gates for security services acting in the context of judicial investigations into facts of radicalism. This should allow the security services to monitor who uses those technologies. However, they must also comply with the strictest security requirements and comply strictly with national and international rules on freedoms, which are under the supervision of the Commission for the Protection of Privacy. Users who actively seek content related to radicalism should also be brought into contact with a counter-discourse based on the algorithms used. The Committee recommends that we consider whether it is possible to criminalise the active and repeated consultation of jihadist websites, in which useful experiences from abroad can inspire us. Given the importance of new technologies in the dissemination of radicalism, consideration should also be given to making use of these opportunities for preventive purposes, in particular in the form of the dissemination of an alternative discourse. Of course, the distribution of a counterdiscourse and alternative discourse must not only be done through the new technologies, but also through other channels. Ladies and gentlemen, the importance of new technologies in the spread of radicalism has proved extremely important throughout our work within the third section. More than other factors, these technologies connect the whole world and radicalisation can, as it were, be brought into the living room by clicking the button. It is therefore more than necessary for our security services to be able to better monitor this, for us to regulate in a partnership with private companies and for us to cooperate more closely on this issue internationally. The fight against radicalism must be tied up with the means of the 21st century in order to be successful. Mr President, I will conclude. I am addressing the chairman of the committee, all my fellow Members and all those who have worked closely or far on the committee of inquiry, and I thank them for their very constructive and wonderful work. Finally, Mr President, I am delighted to say that the committee's report has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip192x.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Ministers, 22 March 2016 was a day where we knew exactly what we were doing, where we were and who we were with. It was a day that was now ticked in black in our agenda. It was a day that will forever be a black page in our history. On that day, terrorists managed to touch our society deeply, in the heart, where it hurts. That day more than thirty people were killed and three hundred wounded. Train commuters on the metro, on their way to work, families who were excited to queue up for their flight, airport workers who, like every day, helped travelers to make their flight go well. All of them became innocent victims of these brutal attacks, which were only intended to cause death and destruction, to create panic and fear, and to meet us in who we are. Colleagues, the attacks immediately raised many questions. How did this happen? Could we have avoided this? Where did we fall short? With our committee of inquiry, we have gone looking for answers. More than a year ago, we started our search, with an analysis of the aid. Only words of praise, respect and immense gratitude are in place for all those people who offered professional or spontaneous help, cared for people on 22 March, or kept the peace under extreme circumstances. Many had just finished a night shift but immediately added a shift. A lot of those who didn't have to work that day jumped into their car anyway. Many who had to be somewhere else that day dropped everything. That's the society we are. Everyone who offered help in one way or another has done their utmost to their own self-esteem. I want to take advantage of this moment to thank them from the bottom of my heart. Colleagues, we have also dared to look together at what could have been better, even if the circumstances were extreme. For example, I refer to the saturation of the mobile phone and the ASTRID network, which made communication difficult for adequate assistance. We have also found that we were sometimes not sufficiently prepared for such a disaster scenario. There had been no evacuation exercise at the airport for years and the various emergency plans were barely foreseen for terrorism. However, we have seen from the various testimonies that the main problems were mainly due to a manifest lack of coordination. For example, the Crisis Centre had decided to close the metro network immediately, but it was for too long unclear who to pass that decision on to STIB. For example, the Brussels hospital Saint-Luc was underutilized for too long, because the emergency power stations wanted to spare that hospital after the attack in Maalbeek. For too long a discussion took place between the Flemish-Brabant emergency centre and the Brussels fire department on the number of ambulances to be sent to the airport. Colleagues, precisely in order to avoid such coordination problems in the future, our joint committee submitted a report a year ago containing concrete recommendations. For example, an operational cell must be established within the Crisis Centre so that each decision is implemented quickly and closely monitored. For example, there should be a single platform with real-time information on available places in hospitals. Emergency services need to work together across county boundaries and, above all, to work together. In that first report, we had also clearly argued in favour of a central point of contact for the victims. It was very confrontational to hear on 18 January 2017, six months after our recommendations and nine months after the attacks, from the victims and their families that they were left to their fate. They were sent from the cabinet to the wall and felt abandoned. Their testimonies were not only painful, but also embarrassing. That is why we decided in an additional report to assign to victims and relatives a direct and personal contact person, one who guides them throughout the tangle of insurance, support and help. We also decided, as is already the case in France, to create a central fund for compensation, on which victims and their families can call immediately instead of having to pick it all out from the insurance companies themselves. We cannot guarantee 100% that there will be no further attacks, but we can and must offer 100% assurance that all victims will be helped properly and respectfully. That's our duty. A second big question on which our committee has tried to seek answers is less simple. Could the attacks have been avoided? How do we organise our safety device to eliminate such a drama? I am talking not only about our police services, but also about our intelligence and military services, our analysts from the OCAD, our prosecutors, our investigators and our criminal justice officers. All these hundreds of people in our security chains give the best of themselves every day in the fight against terror and in particularly difficult circumstances. Here too, only words of praise, respect and gratitude fit, because their commitment is not lacking. However, we have noted that the structure and organisation in which they have to work every day is urgently needed. We did that in the Committee of Inquiry without taboos. First of all, I would like to consider the information our security services had on the terrorists and didn't have. It was striking that our intelligence services did not have any of the terrorists in their sights, while they should be the first to know of a possible danger. For example, there are many examples of crucial information that were too little or not shared. A tip about the imminent departure of the Abdeslam brothers to Syria was not taken seriously, while one even had the phone of one of the two brothers. The tip was not entered into the police databases and the cell phone was not investigated. In our committee, however, there was information on that cell phone that confirmed not only radicalisation but also the connection with Abaaoud, the brains behind the attacks. Salah Abdeslam was arrested by the police no less than three times during the night of the attacks in Paris on his return to Brussels, but as many times because he was not included in the Schengen system for radicalism. For example, there was the address of the final hiding place of Salah Abdeslam, the Vierwindenstraat in Molenbeek. That was known three months before his arrest with the Mechelen police, but that was never recorded in the police databases. So make no mistake, ladies and gentlemen, about the terrorists and their plans there was information available, but it was too often not shared or insufficiently shared. In an attempt to resolve the lack of information sharing and to fill the lack of unity of decision, our committee has worked hard. In my view and in my group, the recommendations should be a real change for our security services. First of all, there should be a crossroads database containing all available information. Each service's own terrorist database? That's in the past. That has to be clear. With the Joint Decision Centre now to be set up, the police and intelligence services will now have to decide on files together. For example, they all have the same information at the same time and together take responsibility for the follow-up of that information. In this way, we avoid so-called red files, files that are important but for which there is actually no time or resources, going into some desk drawer. Our committee has also found that the police are entitled to 13 000 men today, but only 11 000 of them have actually been filled in. In order to be able to carry out the work properly, this number must be raised as soon as possible. The recommendation to make our police a reflection of our society is important. A diverse workforce is merely an enrichment, through the knowledge of other languages and cultures and other sensitivities. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the functioning of our courts is concerned, I would like to address our recommendations on the execution of sentences. The brothers El Bakraoui were released on parole, against the negative advice of the prison director. They had travel restrictions, but suddenly one of them was at the border with Syria. When he was arrested by the Turkish police, he informed our liaison officer, who in turn informed DJSOC/Terro. However, this did not immediately lead to action and an arrest mandate was not immediately ordered. The committee has taken clear and united positions in order to rule out such miscalculations to the maximum in the future. This should make it more difficult to deviate from a negative opinion, make travel conditions stricter, especially for radicalised people, and increase cooperation with local authorities. The liaison officer in Turkey needs more resources and the DJSOC/Terro Terror Service needs to be reformed. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to conclude by referring to the issue of safety equipment and to the call from the trade unions and the airport staff. Several times they complained about the lack of security measures in Zaventem. We therefore call on you as a committee to work together with the airport operators and the trade unions on a structural safety consultation. Only in this way can all signals about safety deficiencies be quickly picked up and resolved. Colleagues, whether it's intelligence, police, justice or airport, not one person has failed. So much is clear from the examples. What is also obvious is that cooperation and organisation can not only be better, but must now also be better. Twenty years ago, there was a major police reform to make our security services work better together and share more information. The committee has found that it can do even better in this area. My group and I therefore believe that the committee's recommendations will bring about a necessary but positive change. Ladies and gentlemen, after the assistance and operation of our security apparatus, I have now reached the third and last, and perhaps most important, chapter of our joint work in committee, namely prevention. Colleagues, we can still adopt all the laws of the world and give all the resources of the world to our security services, if we want to tackle the problem at source, so radicalisation, then prevention is crucial. Federally, we have to take responsibility, but that alone will not be enough. Flanders also has an important mission. To this end, it adopted 55 recommendations in 2015. Above all, our cities and municipalities also have a crucial role to play. Local authorities know their residents like no other. They can, first and foremost, receive the alarming signals. Our group is therefore pleased that the report fully recognises the local authorities. However, this recognition must now also be translated into action. This means that we are fully assisting them in the development of a stronger information position. That means that we will fully assist them in much greater involvement with their inhabitants. However, it also means that we are rolling out structural budgets for their preventive work. The signs of radicalisation that are being received in youth homes, sports clubs or in squares, we must also work on that. To convince young people not to go the wrong way, we need role models. Especially those young people need role models. Many Muslims are committed to our society today, day after day. Think of the Ghent imam Khalid Benhaddou, who works with a large group of volunteers in schools, to explain to worried teachers on the basis of reconciliation and meeting. Think of role models in sport or in the cultural sector. Think of bridge builder Mohamed El Bachiri, who lost his wife Loubna in the attack in Maalbeek, but still called him a jihad of love. Ladies and gentlemen, he is the best example. If he is then able to call for collusion, we must strengthen his message wherever we can. Colleagues, the best prevention against terror is to work towards a society in which everyone feels at home, in which everyone gets opportunities and in which discrimination is addressed. That is why I am pleased that the report calls for rapid implementation of the practical tests. That is why the recommendation calling for better status and greater support for Islam consultants in prisons is also important. Many terrorists have just been radicalised in prisons. It is therefore also important to open up the Grand Mosque in Brussels as a place where everyone is welcome and as a place where the Muslim community can really show who it is, so that it becomes a place of openness and solidarity, a place of meeting, a place where we get to know each other better, with the Muslim community as a partner in a common story. Ladies and gentlemen, security is not a left or a right issue. Security interests us all together. That is why I would like to close with a word of thanks. I would like to thank all the members of the Chamber for their support for the committee. I thank all the experts for their excellent work. I would like to thank all the members of the committee for their constructive and collegial work. I would like to thank the President, who has been able to transcend and reconcile the various positions of the parties, where this had to be done. The committee has managed to work together, across the borders of majority and opposition, towards greater security and a better life. Ladies and gentlemen, we have shown that we can set aside different views and positions when a greater interest is at stake. I am therefore proud that, after one and a half years of work, we are delivering results in the form of many recommendations. Ladies and gentlemen, ministers, it is just now beginning. Now the real thing's just starting. Now we're all counting on you. The most important thing is for all recommendations to be implemented as quickly and effectively as possible. That is why I propose that, together with the Members and the committees, we make concrete and clear agreements on who is doing what in the government and on the deadline for implementing the recommendations.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip192x.u12	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am here today with some pride because we are presenting our report here. My group, my colleague Mr Vanden Burre and I are satisfied with the outcome of our work for three reasons. Firstly, a good balance was struck between security measures and respect for fundamental fundamental rights and privacy, between security measures and measures to address the underlying causes of radicalism and, not to mention, to take serious action on prevention. Shortly after the attacks, there was a lot of work on security and repression, but hardly on prevention and tackling the underlying causes of violent radicalism. The fourth part of the report rightly adds an important and necessary chapter on tackling and preventing violent radicalism. Secondly, we are satisfied because we have been able to put our finger on the wound with the committee. There were many wounds, open wounds, hidden wounds, chronic and acute wounds in the operation of police and intelligence services and justice. We have been able to go deep into the analysis and have been able to do it thoroughly. The wounds are now exposed and need urgent healing. The report points the way. So the work isn't finished, but it's just starting now. Thirdly, we are satisfied because we have managed to draw up a report which has been adopted unanimously across the boundaries of majority and opposition. This is very important when it comes to adjusting the operation of our police and intelligence services. Such fundamental decisions are best taken not by a majority against opposition, but by unanimity; after all, they are about work for many years. We were able to agree quickly on between 90% and 95% of the findings and recommendations, and even though the views on a number of points were sometimes very far apart at times, we managed to grow towards each other in this respect. The question that lives on many people is whether the attacks could have been avoided. The Committee of Inquiry has in no way established that. At the same time, it is clear that opportunities have been missed to stop the perpetrators. There are, as far as I am concerned, three crucial moments when opportunities have been effectively missed. Firstly, an investigation into the Abdeslam brothers was dismissed by the federal prosecutor, while further investigations had to be carried out on a mobile phone and on laptops. What was found on it afterwards turned out to be very relevant. Secondly, the investigation of that dossier did not release any capacity to the federal police in Brussels and after a weak contextualisation-pv which lacked essential information, the file was dropped. Thirdly, with crucial information from a police inspector from Mechelen about the whereabouts of the later offenders, nothing was done by internal conflicts. These elements were, among many others, thoroughly examined and analysed. The report is rightly very critical of a number of facts. In general, we have been faced with structural problems in various areas. I'd like to highlight about eight, very briefly, in a bird's eye. Firstly, there is the problem of the capacity of, among other things, intelligence services and, above all, police services. Our police services work hard and often excellent, but they suffer from a chronic shortage of staff. The savings made in recent years have greatly affected the functioning of the police, especially the federal police, and then just in times of increased terror threats. In figures it represents a deficit of 2 500 agents on a frame of 13 500 or a deficit of about 20%. This brings with it serious safety risks and weighs heavily on the operation. However, the problems were most acute with the federal judicial police in Brussels, which is responsible for the vast majority of terrorist investigations. In October 2016, 46% of the capacity was used for terrorist cases, whereas the FGP should normally only provide 15% of its capacity to the federal prosecutor. In other words, three times as much effort was required if capacity is actually to be made available. This kind of hard work does not make one cheerful, which in no way undermines the respect for the very hard work that has been done on the ground. Secondly, the integrated police are not always integrated. Unfortunately, despite the police reform following the Dutroux case, the various police forces are not always working together in an integrated way. There are still divisions between the different police forces and there is sometimes too little communication and cooperation. That is why many recommendations go in this direction. Thirdly, ladies and gentlemen, there is a quote that I will never forget, and the committee members may know what I am talking about. When we heard a top federal police officer, he explained to us that, after half a day of meetings with other high-ranking police officers, he asked a colleague what had actually been decided and that the person replied: "Décider de ne pas décider, cиest aussi décider."'. Well, then one so to speak falls from one's chair. They say that they are working with a consensus model. That is all well and good, and I have no problem finding a consensus, but if no consensus is found, then someone has to make a decision. The report is clear that this must be the Commissioner-General. Fourthly, the information position of our intelligence services was particularly weak. A number of fellow Members have already referred to this. This was also demonstrated by the in-depth studies carried out by the Committee I. A number of recommendations are therefore rightly made to improve the operation and, above all, cooperation, not only between intelligence and police services but also between the two intelligence services. Fifth, with the information military gathered on their patrols, nothing happened. It was the task of the ADIV to work with it, in cooperation with the police. We know that relevant information has been passed on in this way, but nothing has apparently happened to it. During our work in December last year, we sent a letter from the committee to the ministers responsible, Vandeput and Jambon, to raise this problem and to deal with it as a matter of urgency. Actually, they kind of blamed each other, and that can't be, knowing that it was about relevant information. I hope that this problem has been resolved in the meantime, and that the information is processed and examined in an appropriate and professional manner by the competent services. Sixthly, the fight against radicalism in prisons has failed. Colleagues, since the first Plan R was drawn up in 2006, it has been decided that this should be done. For ten years, nothing happened until after Verviers. Everyone's gonna be woken up. Now a great deal of delay has to be made up, but in the meantime a lot of precious time has been lost and our prisons have become ticking time bombs. The challenges are immense and a heavy responsibility rests on the shoulders of the Minister of Justice. Seventhly, the fight against the financing of terrorism has not been conducted or has not been conducted sufficiently for years. Do you know what surprises me sometimes in times of attacks? This means that proposals for new legislation which urgently need to be adopted will be launched very quickly. However, we have noted that there has been a royal decision since 2006 allowing the freezing of the funds of persons convicted of terrorism. Now, Minister, you know that the first list of persons whose goods will be frozen was drawn up in 2017, eleven years after the Royal Decree. For ten years, the royal decree has not been used. Eighthly, an absolute pain was the way in which the victims of the attacks were treated, or rather left to their fate. It was captivating and painful moments when the relatives of the victims came to testify about this. In his State of the Union, the Prime Minister has clearly struck mea culpa in that regard. And rightly so. I hope that in the meantime the recommendations in our second interim report will be fully examined and implemented, so that this can no longer happen and so that the victims can still receive the necessary support today in the often difficult administrative burden and in the many other problems they face. The previous speakers have already made many recommendations. I'll get some that are very important to us. In addition to the demand for sufficient resources for the police, a problem that I have just outlined, there are other issues. The FGPs must have sufficient capacity. There is a great deal of investment in the fight against terrorism, but we must not forget, ladies and gentlemen, that the federal police are also confronted with other phenomena of serious crime. It is important that these heavy dossiers can also be dealt with, or perhaps we will be standing here again in a few years' time because of other phenomena. I would like to make a plea for the re-establishment of a general reserve that can assist the local corps. In this way, we avoid the need for local forces to always step in for federal tasks. There must also be more diversity in the corps. I look at you for that, Minister. We have learned that more diversity in the corps can be important for its operation. I refer to the Netherlands, where this exercise has already been made and where great progress has been made in ten years. I therefore expect you to have a real policy of taking steps in the interests of the diversity of our corps. The strengthening of the district and the role of the district agent are also important. We have talked about this many times. The neighborhood agents are the eyes and ears on the premises. They are close to the citizens and can quickly see and signal things. That is why we also call for a better statute for district agents and a reform of their complex, non-transparent premium systems. Many predecessors have bitten their teeth on that, Minister, but this report gives you the support of this Parliament to get back to work on this. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to express my thanks for the constructive cooperation with my fellow Members. Occasionally, it was intense, but the cooperation was constructive. I would also like to thank our chairman in particular. His mission was not always easy, but he led the committee correctly, with respect for everyone's role. The experts have done a wonderful job and provided us with educational insights and analyses. Without their solid and high-quality work, this report was not here. I would also like to thank the interpreters and translators, whom I sometimes felt sorry for, especially in the last chapter. Finally, I would like to thank all Parliament's staff, although with a special mention for our three secretaries who have assisted us for 18 months; they were actually the pillars of our committee. Colleagues, if we look back on this period in ten years' time, we will talk about the period before and after 22 March. I hope that the faith in the justice system and in the security services will be much higher than today. This is essential for confidence in our democracy and for the functioning of our democratic institutions. That is our duty, but the work is not finished.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip192x.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, as an introduction, I would like to begin by mentioning two very strong moments that we have had collectively in the Committee of Inquiry following the attacks of 22 March 2016, and which are indeed the seriousness of the task we have had to carry out following these tragic events. The first highlight is a month after the attacks, when we all found ourselves in the entrance hall of Brussels Airport. We still saw impacts on the walls, witness to the drama that had been played a month before. But, above all, we had this confrontation with the workers who were present on the day of the drama and with the firemen, the police, these true heroes who helped, who were on the front line to treat each other and to draw others from complicated situations. We all found ourselves there and felt extremely humble in the face of these heroic behaviors. Above all, we realized the seriousness of the situation and the emotional burden of the 18-month task. The second highlight, already mentioned by some colleagues, occurred when we heard the victims and the associations representing the victims in the committee of inquiry. We have collectively felt a sense of embarrassment - let us say so - in relation to the abandonment and disarray of the victims in the face of their administrative and financial difficulties. Some of them showed us, I remember, entire binders of invoices. We were really shocked to see how much the victims felt forgotten. For me, these events represent - along with others as well - the reasons for the commission of inquiry, and also its willingness to understand what happened, first and foremost for the families of the victims, but also for the entire population also affected by this tragedy of 22 March 2016. I would like to highlight another point by way of introduction, in relation to the importance of the political consensus that we have managed to achieve. In terms of political signal, each political group was committed to reaching consensus. This was the initial objective and, in such circumstances, after such a tragedy, this signal was very important to our fellow citizens, and certainly to the current political climate. It is true that the report is a compromise and that each of the political groups has had to make efforts and negotiate. For this reason, 18 months of intense work were required. But it was important. I would also like to stress the role of the President, our colleague Patrick Dewael, who, on many occasions, managed to place himself above the fray to remind us of the objective pursued and to force us to reach a consensus. I would also like to thank the experts, Professors Bruggeman, Martens, Dantinne and Van Daele, without whom nothing would have been possible; in any case, this report would not have been possible. They spent hours writing, guiding, explaining, probably observing, sometimes wondering what we were going to get at, what we were going to achieve. I would now like to go back to some elements that environmentalists consider essential and on which we were likely to agree, with the aim of reaching a compromise. My colleague Stefaan Van Hecke and I have therefore wished to put them forward. The first part is the one on victims. Many Members have been reminded of this, but it is so high a priority that I wish to do so again. It was essential to respond to the sense of abandonment and the difficulties encountered by the victims, which we had clearly perceived during the hearings. A number of important measures have been implemented, including the establishment of a one-stop shop with a person attached to a file to deal with it from A to Z. There is also an increase in the amounts allocated by the Commission for financial assistance that has been put in place. Finally, there is another fundamental measure, namely the transformation of the current system into a system of subrogation, i.e. a system whereby the State immediately compensates the victims and then takes over the rights in order to recover the compensation from the insurance companies. The second aspect I wanted to address relates to the security architecture. It represents a delicate balance between strengthening security structures and safeguarding the fundamental rights of our citizens, both individual freedoms and privacy. We have also reviewed several investigations in which the perpetrators of the attacks appeared on several occasions, but have never been arrested and closely monitored. We have pointed out these missed opportunities, these shortcomings, which have highlighted two main difficulties: the lack of financial and human resources - each of the representatives of the services we have heard started his hearing by pointing to the lack of financial and human resources - but also the lack of a culture of collaboration between the services - other colleagues have pointed out this. In particular, we wanted to highlight a measure to fill the ranks of federal police officers. Today, 20% of the capacity is lacking in relation to the framework. The Committee of Inquiry recommends that this lack be filled, which we welcome. A series of effective and proportionate measures can be found in this strand: the strengthening of outreach agents, the creation of the Joint Decision Centre, the establishment of centralized data banks to facilitate the sharing of information between services and collaboration, closer cooperation between the State Security and the military intelligence services. The third part concerns violent radicalism. As environmentalists have repeated for many years, investments in security must always go hand in hand with prevention, in order to stem the broad and complex phenomenon of violent radicalism. Our basic philosophy in this afternoon's debate has always been that every euro invested in security must also represent a euro invested in prevention. This last part of the report illustrates this balance, which has allowed us to devote entire chapters to the role of education, education, culture, training and the crucial role of local authorities in the front line on the ground. I would like to highlight some of these elements that are fundamental to us: - the need to improve collaboration and coordination between different departments and levels of competence; - the introduction of another prison policy in order to allow for effective and personalised deradicalization routes; - the need to strengthen the community police, both in the means and in the diversity of its agents, the community police and neighbourhood agents being the direct contact with the population; - the need to provide structural support to local authorities for more prevention and support for families directly confronted with radicalisation; - the importance of dialogue and debate through the strengthening and support of initiatives, particularly citizens, which create bridges and meeting spaces; - the effective fight against discrimination also in the world of work through, for example, situational tests and the strengthening of inspection services. All of this leads me to conclude that these numerous recommendations, which concern different levels of power, will certainly go beyond the end of this legislature and will require many cooperation agreements between the federal state and the Communities. They will also undeniably involve a budgetary effort on the part of all entities. It will require real political will. The task is therefore immense and the expectations are enormous. The Monitoring Committee will therefore have a crucial role and the strength of our unanimous vote will be the guarantee that these recommendations will be implemented, with the sole aim of ensuring the safety of all our citizens, who are an integral part of their quality of life.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip192x.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ministers, Prime Minister, colleagues have said this before me, we will never forget this morning on March 22, 2016. The worst terror had just hit our country. We all remember, as Mrs Onkelinx said earlier, what we were doing when we received this shock in the heart. Personally, I was very lucky. I had just left the airport, dropped off my wife there. At 7:58 a.m., she was standing next to Abrini, unknowingly. The bomb didn't explode. She had her life saved. Thirty-two people didn't get that chance. They were brutally murdered; hundreds of others were wounded, sometimes seriously, in their flesh and in their hearts. Some of them are with us today. They came to listen to us. We know them well now. I want to greet them here and pay tribute to them. Our investigation was obviously indispensable after these terrible attacks. She had to be searched, meticulous and ambitious. I think she was. Before I say a few words, I too would like to thank all the colleagues in the committee for the quality of their reflections, the chairman of our committee for his outstanding pilot work, our four experts who were able to guide us, the services of the House and all of you, ladies and gentlemen, who allowed us to conduct this inquiry. I would also like, once again, to thank the men and women who, on a daily basis, carry out the delicate task of protecting the population, helping it and strengthening social cohesion. They do so most often with dedication, professionalism and commitment. In the preamble, I would like to make a few remarks on our method of work. We have been able to carry out extensive work on the basis of dozens of hearings, exhibits, documents, e-mails, minutes, reports from security services. We conducted case studies on Salah Abdeslam, Ibrahim El Bakraoui, Osama Atar and the great mosque. We investigated the heart of the security machine. We have benefited from the collaboration of all, with the exception of a few: the great mosque and the services of private Internet operators. Our hearings were public when possible, in camera, when it was essential to try to approach the whole truth. We have avoided, with more or less happiness, five pitfalls. First, we were able to address all or almost all of the most sensitive issues, even those that were at the limit of our institutional competence. We have not divided – some have recalled – on such an essential subject as terrorism, it was indispensable. We did not confuse our investigation with the judicial investigation, our role was to check how the state had functioned. The role of the judicial investigation is to determine and try those responsible for these attacks. We didn't want to feed a particular individual, not that there were no individual responsibilities. But most of the time these are the reflection of structural dysfunctions. Neither complacency, nor bashing, we investigated charge and discharge, as our president likes to remind us. Many countries, including our immediate neighbours, are exposed to the threat of terrorism. Everyone has to sweep in front of his door, and he wants to do it. That is what we have tried to do. We can obviously have a few regrets. We could have set up our commission in the aftermath of the attacks in Paris. We should have heard more quickly the cry of despair of the victims. We could, perhaps, have dealt with other aspects, such as the links between diplomacy, foreign trade and the fight against terrorism; or the influence of foreign television stations that broadcast in Belgium and sometimes pose serious questions for our living together. Nor have we been able to make all the clarity on the links between Osama Atar and our security services. The subject may be too sensitive. Yes, all this is true! However, our work and our report are very great advances in understanding what has happened and in better protecting our citizens. I would quickly like to point out six key factors that are both shortcomings of the past and challenges for the future: vigilance, governance, international cooperation, resources, the legal framework and the culture of information. First, on vigilance: yes, there was a lack of vigilance! This comment is not valid for everyone. There were whistleblowers. But overall, there was a lot of denial about the rise of radicalism, about the extent of the threat. Sometimes I recall that when, in 2013, I pointed out the role of some mosques in the departure of young people in Syria, I was criticized. Let us also remember that it was not possible to ban radical groups during the debates in parliament in 2013. The case of the great mosque too is quite typical of this attitude of banality in the face of the rise of fundamentalist currents that threaten our fundamental freedoms. But our committee has allowed for a broad debate on these difficulties. And these difficulties, we are facing them today. We will have a duty of lucidity for the future. Second, our security device is compartmentalized, fragmented. We know that our state is still not easy to fly. The absence of a clear chain of command, partitioning, and the lack of consolidated control of the State's response have a particularly high cost in protecting citizens. There were dozens of examples. In the assistance and relief section, he was seen when it came to closing the metro after the attack on Zaventem or when it was necessary to coordinate the rescue and dispatch of the wounded to hospitals. It was also seen when a single, rapid and effective support was needed for the victims. In the security architecture section, we have seen the same thing about Salah Abdeslam: insufficient contacts between the PJF Brussels, the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office and the local police in the West Zone in the management of the famous red files. Had these services spoken better, Salah and Brahim Abdeslam's files might not have been closed without further action. We also know the partitioning of databases: tens, hundreds! Our committee had to try to count them in order to know the approximate figure. Everyone had his own – sometimes outside any legal framework – with information that was not circulating. Then, our intelligence services were on the sidelines, far too little involved in the fight against terrorism and, in any case, completely unaware of the dangerousness of the perpetrators of the attacks in Paris and Brussels. The fragility of the central floor of the federal police, the difficulties that persist between this floor and the deconcentrated floor, are examples of the difficulties of cooperation and coordination in the security architecture. A last example in the recent news of our complex governance. A few days ago, I was listening to the TJ of the RTBF and I heard that a ministerial conference had just addressed the issue of re-integration of inmates, an important topic. No fewer than thirteen ministers, only for the south of the country! Thirteen ministers on a single subject for a part of the country, this shows how the governance of Belgium today has become almost upuesque. The various reforms of the State have produced a system of protection for our citizens, which is complex and particularly vulnerable to human failure. Many of our recommendations therefore relate to improved coordination, simplification of chains of command and clearer chains of command, better leadership, clarification of each other's roles. Many good ideas, many essential improvements, but we do not look at them: in a country as complex as ours, with its history, with its centrifugal tendencies, it will remain a challenge to make the architecture of security and protection of citizens work effectively! The third key factor for the future is European and international coordination. It has been clearly insufficient in the past. However, Belgium does not have to blush in this area. It has long been a cooperating partner, notably in Interpol, Europol and Eurojust. It was one of the first countries to try to strengthen international coordination efforts in the fight against terrorism, already under the previous Government. The main obstacle for Belgium is that it itself has an extremely weak information position. To receive information, you have to be able to give it. By strengthening the intelligence position of our intelligence services, we will strengthen our ability to be a cooperative member of the international intelligence community. The difficulties in the fight against international terrorism have been numerous: those with Turkey are probably the most obvious example. The episode of Cambrai, where Belgians and French rejected the responsibility of missing Salah Abdeslam's arrest, is another. The accumulation of databases (Schengen, Interpol, Europol), the heterogeneity of reporting practices have been obstacles to effective cooperation. All this is currently moving in the right direction but there is still work to be done. Internal security and cooperation between Member States' security services are among the main themes on the European Union's agenda. This ambition must be supported. Our committee believes that we must move towards a European intelligence service and that Belgium must take the initiative with countries that share its vision. The French President proposed the creation of a European intelligence academy during his speech by the Sorbonne. This is a good step towards the creation of a European intelligence service. Why not set up this academy in Brussels? The fourth element is the lack of human, technical and budgetary resources in the departments of Justice, Police and Intelligence. We know that, it's not from yesterday! But this did not significantly improve as the level of threat increased significantly. We will not be able to save indefinitely from adequate refinancing of these services. The Minister of the Interior admitted it from the outset when he appeared before our committee. The employment deficit has worsened. It is very far from fulfilling the 13,500 functions envisaged. Prisons obviously deserve substantial refinancing. Perhaps the worst is the situation of our intelligence services and, in particular, of the State Security Service. Jaak Raes told us and repeated it several times. If we are to make a benchmarking with neighbouring countries of similar size – which our committee of inquiry recommends – we would have to double the number of staff and, consequently, the budgets. However, the figures – I have checked them – have hardly changed in five years. The issue of resources is not just a matter of quantity. Improvements in technology and the qualification of human resources are also important. Intelligence services need to be able to rely more on human resources. One must, for example, be able to set up, with clear beacons, operations of infiltration into jihadist circles. The engagement of more police and intelligence officers of allochtonic origin is certainly one of the major challenges of the future. I turn to the fifth key aspect: our legislative framework. I'll just say a few words. So far, this issue has been primarily the responsibility of the Terrorism Committee. The first anti-terrorist laws were passed in 2003, after the attacks of 11 September, and were adapted in 2013. Since the attacks, we no longer have legal provisions designed to protect us better, while preserving our freedoms. Parliament has approved many of them. Our committee is coming to you with new proposals to improve the security architecture, the fight against radicalism or the assistance of victims. They will have to be voted on, but these legal provisions will probably also have to be evaluated in order to check their effectiveness, articulation and timeliness since the Paris and Brussels attacks. Our committee could be responsible for this. Finally, I will discuss a complete paradigm shift in information sharing. Our investigation showed this: there were information – sometimes tenuous, sometimes clear – that was not exploited and that remained in the hands of those who held them or under the hands of their superiors to whom they had been entrusted. This was the case at the PJF in Brussels in July 2014; in the police zone of Brussels-West in February 2015; in Zaventem, 15 days before the attacks; or in the police zone of Malines. We can also doubtless talk about the information held by various services about Ibrahim El Bakraoui, who, had they been properly treated, would certainly have been able to get hold of him while he was in Turkey. In this respect, a true Copernician revolution must be carried out. Today, keeping information under control would be totally irresponsible. We need to move from the need to know to the need to share, from the need to know to the need to share. Information that is not shared with all those who need it is of no use. Of course, it is important to be careful. Of course, there is privacy, as well as security issues. This information cannot therefore be shared with any wind. This is the meaning of several arrangements put in place by the government, such as the CSIL, the local task forces and the national task force. But we want to go further. First of all, we want to provide a legal basis for these platforms, as the Council of State invites us to do. We also want to set up the joint information centres and the joint decisions centres. That is what I wanted to say about these six key issues for the future: vigilance, governance, international cooperation, the legal framework, resources and the culture of information. I will quickly highlight a few points for the future. Several of our recommendations have already been implemented, particularly with regard to assistance and crisis management. There remains at least one important question that will deserve a quick answer in the future. It seems that today, the issue of responsibility for the decision to shut down the metro completely is not fully resolved. Many working meetings on this subject have taken place, but they have not been fully concluded. We need to make this clear very quickly. The victims said that they felt that they had been abandoned by the State, and others pointed out that. As you acknowledged, Prime Minister, in your statement on the state of union, the state's response has not always met the plight of these victims. Improvements have been made since the passage of the bill on the creation of a national solidarity statute, and we welcome that. The majority and the opposition have worked constructively on these issues, but this law is only a first step. Mr. Geens, we are waiting for your bill, which must set out the single route of automatic and rapid compensation by the state, and the designation of a reference person. I'll make one more remark. Policeman Nadia Seghers, whose name appeared several times in the press, was right when she said that she had given the alert in July 2014. We now know that she was telling the truth, and I wanted that to be said. I would like to say another word about radicalism. The fight against Islamist radicalism will be the most difficult and yet the most essential. This fight goes beyond our borders. It takes place at the local level as well as at the planetary level. Of course, it has found particular ground in Belgium, but the problem affects many countries and many Muslims. Many Muslim countries are at our side in this fight, as they are the first to be affected. In this area, we must move from distrust, sometimes hatred between certain parts of our population, to trust and dialogue. This is tomorrow's big deal. We recommend many measures to combat radicalism. They target the internet, prisons, mosques, sports clubs, employment and youth. Some of these measures are control measures and are essential, but others are positive support and investment measures. These measures are also essential. They should not be neglected in the context of the future plan to combat radicalism. Finally, a word about the Great Mosque. You know this is a case I've been working on for a while. We had no choice but to terminate this mosque's concession contract with Saudi Arabia. I met with the Saudi delegation a few days ago to try to change our decision. We had a very frank but not useless discussion. I am convinced that it is clear attitudes like ours that are also changing the debate in Saudi Arabia, as evidenced by the statements of the Crown Prince in recent days who says he wants to turn the page of extremism. We can help accelerate this movement if we are firm in our values and security. By way of conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say to you that the work has been considerable. It's had important effects. Each witness, before our committee, asked himself about his profession, his role, his responsibility. This questioning has already had an impact on the way each of the services works. Throughout our work, the government has been attentive to our thinking. This has already produced effects: behaviour has changed, the level of vigilance is increased, bridges between services have been built, legislative and organizational initiatives have been taken. But the task remains enormous in order to better ensure the protection of our citizens. We propose a follow-up committee. We set up a dashboard. There will probably remain, for some time, shadow zones, such as, for example, the reasons why Belgium seems to have done everything possible to free Osama Atar or what the terrorist's contacts with our security services have been, and where he is now. What I am asking the members of the government is to commit themselves to implementing the recommendations of Parliament without delay. We'll be here to remind him. I have one last thought: could we have avoided these attacks? Perhaps the question is a little futile today. However, let us admit, we have often asked ourselves and it has often been asked to us. We must have the humility to say that we could have given ourselves a better chance of avoiding attacks. I'm one of those people who think we need to recognize his defeats. This is not the responsibility of a single government. It's the defeat of a generation. It must be recognized that we have for a long time, collectively, lacked lucidity, action and coordination regarding the terrorist danger that threatened us. The threat was indeed there and when it did not directly target our country, some of our nationals used our territory as a back base to carry out their attacks elsewhere, as in France. Yes, I sincerely believe, the dozens of witnesses we hear tell us, the thousands of pages of reports confirm this: we could have better protected, better rescued the victims. Better help survivors rebuild their lives. Better stem the emergence of radicalism in Belgium and fight it more effectively today. Our political responsibility is to make every effort to learn from this terrible ordeal and to prevent such a tragedy from happening again in the future. We owe it to the victims, we owe it to the people. Knowing that zero risk does not, of course, exist, our responsibility is also, if it happens again, to provide effective, immediate and long-term relief for victims and survivors. Our responsibility is to build confidence in the State, but also among certain parts of the population. We will not build anything tangible and strong on the mistrust, fear and hatred of the other. We will build on dialogue, lucidity and trust in our society. We will build a future that preserves our fundamental freedoms and security if, together, we act and do society to preserve and consolidate those fundamental rights that we hold so dear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip192x.u15	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, 22 March will always be a scar for our country and its citizens. It is the date on which, in our country, in our capital city, we met terrorism not far from here, in the Maalbeek metro station and at our national airport. It was not the first attack in our country, but the events of that day led this Parliament to look fundamentally at how our society and our government can cope with that terrorist threat and do everything possible to prevent such horrific events from repeating themselves. Ladies and gentlemen, war rhetoric is not in my group's DNA, but it is certain that the fight we are fighting against terrorism is above all a fight for our freedom and for our way of life. We live in this country in a democracy, in a rule of law with laws and rules, in which every human being has fundamental rights. It is the pillars of our society that are the targets of terrorism. That is why we are all the better to stand up for it. For Liberals, ladies and gentlemen, fundamental freedoms are always paramount. It is a question of the right to safety and physical integrity. It is a basic duty which cannot be affected. That's obvious. Whoever should fear for his or her life has little message to other freedoms. The first task of a government is therefore to protect the safety of its citizens. It's a core task. The state must never shirk that responsibility. In the fight against terrorism, we must not fall into the trap of the terrorists themselves. Do they not want us to put aside our own values and our own way of life, driven by fear? So we must remain cold-blooded, but also determined. With the Committee of Inquiry, we have therefore gone very deep and did not opt for rapid, drastic measures. We have looked at what can really be done better in our system. In our fight against terrorism, we always keep our fundamental freedoms in mind, in the two directions. We must be tough on those who attack these freedoms. In this way, we will not allow our freedom of expression to be abused in order to endanger democracy itself. We do not allow the respect for privacy to be abused by those who want to commit illegal crimes. We do not allow the freedom of religion to be used by those who preach hatred against others under the guise of religion. In short, we will not allow our freedoms to be used by those who wish to undermine freedoms themselves. We are not tolerant to the intolerant. So let us not believe that there is a dilemma between freedom and security. It's about finding a balance. The greater our conviction that terrorism must be combated with far-reaching measures, the more cautious we must be in its implementation. We always have to make that assessment. Drastic measures must always be temporary, so that we also commit ourselves to evaluating them. They must always be proportionate. Extreme problems may require extreme measures. Finally, it is also a matter of supervision. For each measure there must be sufficient checks-and-balances, with control by Parliament, the judiciary and the citizens themselves. The Committee of Inquiry hopes to have had added value in this regard. Therefore, my group and I strongly support the report of the Committee of Inquiry. There's been a lot of hard work. There have been 199 witnesses, all of whom I would like to thank for the courage they have had to testify about what undoubtedly was the most difficult and difficult period of their lives and which many of them have signed for life. I would also like to thank the experts: the professional who is Professor Van Daele, the researcher Willy Bruggeman, who often helped us with his schematics on the right track, les petites phrases by Paul Martens, or how small things could make a difference, and, finally, Professor Dantinne, who did not neglect what might have been the most difficult task for our society and the committee, the approach to violent radicalism: how do we deal with this and how do we ensure prevention? We would all like to thank them, not only for the work they have done, but also because they wanted to share their knowledge with us. The work of the permanent secretaries of the committee, in particular Christine De Backer and Sébastien Van Koekenbeek, of the various collaborators, especially those of our own group, and of the translation services was and is extraordinary. Without their help, it wouldn't have worked. I would also like to thank colleagues for their excellent cooperation and for transcending sometimes ideological contradictions, in search of what binds us, not divided up into what distinguishes us. Finally, I would like to express my thanks and appreciation, and perhaps also congratulations to the chairman of our committee, for the firm and experienced hand with which he has led, prepared, prepared and produced the 164 meetings with a total of 476 hours of meetings and a unanimous work programme. No problem has been avoided. Everyone was kept in mind, but was given the floor, even though it was sometimes a long wait, Mr President. Colleagues, the results will hopefully contribute to a safer society. We are putting forward many recommendations to strengthen our medical assistance, our security architecture and our policy to combat radicalisation. We have also paid particular attention to the status of victims, and we are still doing so on a daily basis. Ladies and gentlemen, in my limited time it is impossible to place the almost a thousand pages of findings and recommendations, but I would like to dwell a little longer on the part of the sentence. Terrorism doesn't just happen. It's not a natural phenomenon. It's the work of perps all the time. It was therefore essential to consider the profile of those offenders and their past. We also looked at how we can follow dangerous individuals from the point of view of society's protection. It was confrontational to note that many of the perpetrators had previously been in contact with police and/or justice, such as one of the perpetrators of the attacks of March 22, Ibrahim El Bakraoui, who was arrested on July 11, 2015 on the Turkish-Syrian border and subsequently expelled from the Netherlands by Turkey, who had previously been sentenced to ten years' imprisonment in Belgium, but was suspended on parole after receiving half of them. The release took place against the advice of the prison director, which was negative just because of repeated danger. Then, apparently, he could travel abroad undisturbed. We have also noted that between the time he ceased to appear in the judicial assistant and the withdrawal of the conditional release took some time, without the provisional arrest being ordered. The committee was informed, among other things, that the El Bakraoui brothers had been visited several times in 2013 by Oussama Atar. They may have been radicalised under his influence, whereas at that time Atar was considered dangerous by the OCAD. It is on the basis of these and other concrete facts that we have examined the rules and practices of, inter alia, the execution of penalties. Punishment is, after all, the end of our criminal justice chain. Anyone convicted of crimes must be punished. Otherwise there will be a sense of impunity, it will be possible to go back, all actors in the safety chain will be discouraged and society will be put at risk. However, in most cases a punishment is temporary and essential for reintegration into society; hence the importance of conditional release, which must allow the convicted person to prepare his return to society. That seems to be quite a challenge. The conditional release must not be automatic. Succession is essential. The committee has therefore come up with a number of very important recommendations, some of which I would like to discuss briefly with you. In future, the sentence of the Criminal Court on conditional release with individual and special conditions must be more fully justified if it departs from the advice of the prison director. Conditionally released prisoners convicted of terrorism or with indications that they have been radicalised will be banned from travelling. When making a decision, the criminal execution court should have access to important information from security and intelligence services as well as from the OCAD on the possible radicalisation of the convicted person. The control of conditional release must be more efficient. The monitoring of the conditions of release is indeed in the hands of the judicial assistant. However, its control remains the task of the Public Prosecutor and is a core task for the police. It recommends that these various tasks be carried out in close cooperation, that the various competent authorities share the information relevant to the performance of their duties under the coordination of the Public Prosecutor's Office. This should enable action to be taken and speed up action if the conditions are violated. There must be strict deadlines between the violation of conditions and the withdrawal of conditional release. Those on the run should be issued with an international arrest warrant. FAST should be able to use special detection methods for the purposes of detection. Colleagues, those convicted of terrorism who are finally released, as well as other convicted persons released and showing signs of radicalisation, should be subject to control and surveillance measures. Local police should therefore be informed in good time of the release of a person, even if he or she has undergone his or her full sentence. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that prison directors must be given additional resources to monitor visitors and screen them. Radicalisation in prison is a big problem. Inmates who pose a serious risk are now isolated in deradicalisation institutions. However, within the prisons and in the field of deradicalisation programmes, we are not far away. We therefore recommend that the individual deradicalisation pathways for radicalised prisoners be speeded up. Ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party supports a strong policy of tackling terrorism, but always maintaining the balance between security and our freedoms. It is also important for us not only to take repressive measures, but also to adopt a comprehensive approach, in which prevention also has an important place. That is in line with the values of the lighting, which I read back in the report. Ladies and gentlemen, the threat level is still in place today, the danger has not ceased. I fully realise that caring for our security for the government is not an easy task. I have also noted with a number of colleagues that the government has already carried out some of the recommendations contained in the report. As a Parliament, we support the government in this and we are grateful for the initiatives taken. There is no doubt that we in Parliament still have work ahead of us. Colleagues, implementation will show whether the report has contributed to a safer society. I call on all my fellow Members to maintain the unity with which we have been able to work together in drawing up the report, including in its implementation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip192x.u16	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of what will be my last speech in this House, I would like to say both the honour that I felt as a member of this committee, the greeting of its chairman, the Commissioners, the experts, the collaborators and the staff, and the emotion that I, like others, felt in hearing the testimony of both the members of the intervention forces and the families of the victims. As Mrs Laurette Onkelinx said, the work is remarkable in many respects. But I will, if you will, follow a lead in my dual capacity - I am not the only one to share this feature - as a Member of Parliament but also as a mayor. It is important to underline the importance of the local approach in the fight against terrorism. Radicalization and violent radicalization are still taking place in a territory of a city or municipality. At all levels of the security chain, cities and municipalities have a role to play in prevention, detection, monitoring and law enforcement. It is therefore for me, through this prism, to stress the importance of our conclusions. I'll say a few words about contingency plans. By the time we began our investigation, the dimension of terrorism had not yet been fully integrated into the contingency and response plans, as our approach to emergency planning remained too focused on the civilian or environmental nature of the disaster to be predicted. This has had an impact on the lateness of the start of the federal phase of the emergency plan. Now, provincial governors are responsible for developing specific contingency plans that fully integrate the component of terrorism. Let me turn to the second aspect of the issue of victims. Here too cities and municipalities must be involved. We have set in motion a positive dynamic with regard to this very important subject! I would just like to bring you, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a testimony. The attacks in Paris resulted in the deaths of two people living in Liège. A few days later, their families were given victim status at the town hall by the Honorary Consul of France and the ambassador herself. I think we could usefully draw inspiration from it. Third part: detection. Ladies and gentlemen, our committee has found little dysfunction in police areas. In terms of detection, we have even sometimes found that most of the available information comes from the local component of the integrated police force. In the case of the Abdeslam brothers, it was police officers who, through close work, detected most of the elements available. The Commission has decided to propose that you value this privileged information position of the local police forces. We stressed the importance of neighbourhood work and felt that measures should be taken to make this function more attractive. We have recommended, both for prevention and detection, that the diversity that characterizes our society is more reflected in the police force. It would, however, be incorrect to say that we have not found any problems in the police areas. For example, we examined the incident in Malines where an information report bearing the address of Salah Abdeslam's cache remained, for 108 days, locked up on an office. This rare but serious incident coincides, without the commission having been able to prove it, with allegations of racism within the police. These must keep us alert. The Commission has therefore made the fight against racism and discrimination in the police and in the local police an important focus for social cohesion. Fourth part: the exchange of information. In judicial matters, police areas are a reliable component of architecture. But we also note that the exchange of information between the local police and the various levels of the integrated police remains a weak point. We were surprised that the federal police never called the local police service, which had notified the radicalization of the Abdeslam brothers. In the area of administrative police, the exchange of information is also essential. For example, a mayor indicated that it is not tolerable to have to take an administrative police action without knowing the cause. We have made several recommendations in this regard, such as a request to optimize the work of the local task forces. Local Integral Security Cells (CSILs) must be created in each municipality, with structural allocations. In the area of administrative police, an information office will be set up, composed of experts who have the authority to consult the sources and who will be able to better inform the administrative authority before taking any action. I would like to address the problem of collegiality. The majority of cases related to terrorism concern cities such as Paris, Berlin, London, Nice, Barcelona or Brussels. It is most often the big cities that are targeted. I am therefore pleased that the committee has recognised the centrality of cities in the fight against terrorism, when we could fear a recentralisation of the police structure, a return, will say, to the gendarmerie model, a national reconsolidation of a judicial brigade. On the contrary, the Commission has recognised the need to invest in a decentralised way in the fight against terrorism. The deconcentration model of anti-terrorist units in major urban centres, such as Antwerp, Ghent, Liège, Charleroi and Brussels, which has prevailed since the optimisation of 2014, has been consolidated. In this regard, one of the Commission's ideas is to move towards a culture of very strong cooperation between the anti-terrorist police and intelligence services around the five major urban basins. We will therefore have a federal judicial police specialized in terrorism, a permanent information exchange unit between the judicial police, OCAM and intelligence services, a strategic decision-making unit to decide collegially, in the presence of the prosecution and intelligence services, how to follow up the case. In my view, this is a considerable step forward suggested by the committee. I must tell you, Prime Minister, Minister of the Interior, that this concept is well received by all professionals, except perhaps by some who are nostalgic about great centralisation. The following aspect: the means. One of the major problems encountered in testimony is the understaffing of federal police services. The Commissioner General gave figures without ambiguity: "The framework for federal police personnel is set at 13,500 full-time equivalents, but the workforce is 11,000 full-time equivalents, a deficit of 15%." With regard to research in the five jurisdictions of the Court of Appeal, a royal decree will determine a capacity reserved for the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office. That's normal. The workforce will be sought first in the five specialized PJFs, then in the nine non-specialized PJFs, and finally in the local police areas. I come to a second warning from the Commissioner General: "The federal police is not in a position to meet expectations in support of the local police force." The consequences of this situation, coupled with a level of OCAM 3 threat, are well known on the local level: difficulties in supervising sports or cultural events, which are essential, and difficulties for the neighbourhood police. The Commission has therefore indicated an indispensable precondition for any future contribution by the police areas. This is a prerequisite for strengthening the federal police, Mr. Minister of the Interior. The workforce must be guaranteed and there is a need to re-establish a general form of reserve. It is clear that reforms cannot destructure or reverse the balance of a two-tiered police structure by finally having some kind of police reform upside down, i.e. the reserve capacity would no longer be in the federal police but would come from local police. I call on you to pay attention to this concept, while at the same time making it clear that the merger of police areas, as recommended by the committee, must take place on a voluntary basis. I'll say a few words about the follow-up. One of the huge stakes of the security police is to anticipate and accompany the release from prison of radicalised people who will elect home in cities and municipalities. Our commission has recommended, for anyone considered radicalised by the Sûreté, that there be information from the local police and systematic consultation in TFL. Local authorities will therefore take their part in this work, but they cannot assume responsibility alone. A point of attention is also mentioned with regard to conditions of detention. I come to the last part of my intervention which concerns prevention. You will be told about the prison, the internet, the mosques, but I will tell you that there is also the territory, that is, the cities and communes, where people meet, where they speak, where they discuss on public squares. We have a territorial aspect and local authorities are in a position to exercise key competences in this regard, and they must do so. To act at this level, young people must not only be in contact with officials who are police officers and police officers alone. Police officers are obviously important in their repression and prevention efforts, but the city's policy must systematically integrate social mix, cultural mix. Let's avoid ghettos, avoid segregations! It is important to stress the school: with the supervision of compulsory schooling and the supervision of home education, the control of the content taught, the training of teachers in charge of teaching religions, and the education of critical reading of information and the media. Culture and sport must be used to take teenagers on a positive path. Colleagues, local authorities can play a role in supporting Islam rooted in its territorial, linguistic, social and cultural context by supporting positive initiatives launched by civil society. The committee also calls for a high degree of vigilance with regard to decisions to grant funding to the voluntary sector which may be affected by radicalism. In general, it is necessary that budgets for the prevention of radicalism become structural and recurrent because they are both too narrow and too precarious. Prevention funds must therefore be expanded and intensified. Personally – it was also the feeling of the committee – it seems to me that everything we have done, especially with regard to the security architecture, is fundamental, but if, in the future, we want a peaceful and modern society as we all dream of it, and all of us here, our efforts must be more focused on prevention. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the message I wanted to deliver to you as a Member of Parliament and a Mayor. I intend to put an end to my double hat to devote myself fully to a new project for my city with the ambition to make it a model and sustainable city. I would like to thank all of you for the quality of the human relations that have been going on throughout these years. I am proud to have been a member of this distinguished Assembly, and I would ask you to continue to give the territories the necessary importance in terms of federal jurisdiction, namely, cities and municipalities. One last word of complicity with the Minister of the Interior. I was pleased to be working in the committee with the members. I'll have one last friendly gesture for Patrick Dewael. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip192x.u17	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this Committee of Inquiry has worked hard and thoroughly for over a year and a half to formulate recommendations aimed at improving care and after-care for the victims, increasing the performance of our assistance and our security architecture and addressing the issue of violent radicalism and extremism. First of all, achieving a broad consensus over majority and opposition over such heavy and complex matters is not easy. I am convinced that, in some areas, each party would have liked to have come out of the corner more punitively or mildly. Each of us has had to do something about it, including us, but let me make it clear that my group fully supports this report. My colleague Christoph D'Haese will come back to the first part, the section on aid. I will look at the largest part, the section on security architecture, from which I will highlight a number of points that are important to my group. The committee has carried out a thorough review of our security architecture: police, justice and intelligence services. We have looked at everything and have seen from the hearings that all the services asked for the same thing, in particular more money. However, we must be realistic. Money alone will not solve everything and there will never be enough resources. First of all, we need to rationalise where this can be done and fill in the budgets and, if necessary, strengthen them where necessary. Scale expansion must be encouraged and fragmented capacity must be countered by "disbursement." These are not hollow recommendations, but the common thread throughout all the specific recommendations made by the committee in this chapter. We have noticed that our intelligence services often had a poor or even missing information position. The Committee I itself made a number of recommendations to the intelligence services last week, but our recommendations from the Committee of Inquiry go much further and involve a major reorganisation of the intelligence services. The security of the State and military intelligence services will need to develop strong forms of synergies, including through a joint platform, including translation capacity and other technical means, as well as common administrative services. This must generate enormous capacity gains, with resources being deployed in the most efficient way. The possibilities of intelligence services are also extended by law and the balance with judicial investigations is restored. With regard to investigation and prosecution, the Committee notes that the staff regulations of the police make it difficult for the staff to make the best possible use of them. We are therefore firmly in favour of a revision of the Statute, taking into account the functions that are exercised. The premium system should make way for a functional remuneration, while respecting the functioning of the district. Mobility within the police is also important. In addition to greater staff flexibility, the purchase of equipment should also be easier and faster. The current procurement procedures are not compatible with our digital and rapidly evolving world. A simplified procedure must therefore be used to speed up access to the necessary material. An effective federal police can only work with a clear hierarchical structure, with a clear unity of command. The Committee of Inquiry is therefore convinced that the Commissioner-General should be regarded as the head of the police. In order to anchor this recommendation, the Committee proposes a number of concrete and urgent legislative amendments. The central police services are being reformed to achieve uniformity and to exclude barnyards. DJSOC/Terro focuses on the existing structures. Efficiency and coherence are the key words. In addition, maximum attention is paid to scaling up, including in the local police. We need a substantial reduction in the number of zones. We now count no less than 189. And, as has already been mentioned briefly, the "disbursement" between the administrative and the judicial columns must be put to an end. The federal police need to be integrated. The tight distinction between judicial and administrative is already being left concretely by talking about police information, but it must go further. With regard to the execution of the sentence, we are clear: the possibility of travelling on parole is drastically restricted, particularly in the case of terrorism. Secret information from the intelligence services on radicalism and terrorism must reach the criminal courts so that dangerous individuals cannot walk freely. But it doesn't stop there. The police should be informed in good time if radicalised persons, whether conditional or not, are released. Individuals need to be followed up and, in the event of the slightest violation of the conditions, the public prosecutor must take the appropriate measures to rob individuals of their freedom again. Finally, the prison directors should have access to the OCAD list. We have found that the prisoners radicalise not only within the prison walls themselves, but also under the influence of visitors. This absolutely must be avoided. As far as we are concerned, therefore, screening and checking visitors should be much stricter. The Committee of Inquiry has also paid a lot of attention to administrative enforcement, the final piece in a sound and integrated security architecture. Administrative action must be professionalised and strengthened. Cooperation between the federal and local police is of great importance, once again, regardless of the columns and in which "shot" and island formation are avoided. This means that administrative authorities should, where possible, have access to judicial information. The function of the district agent plays a crucial role in the context of administrative action. The Channel Plan is the example to follow here. On the last part, on radicalism, Mr De Roover has already reported, but I would like to say the following. We will never forget the hearing with the representatives of the Great Mosque: the imam of the country's largest mosque did not know the Universal Declaration of Human Rights! This defies all imagination. We are right, therefore, to say that the Great Mosque adheres to a radical form of Islam which is not in line with our values and standards, and which we cannot tolerate. A strong signal is to cancel the agreement with the Belgian State. With regard to the recognition of mosques in general, we underline the importance of security screening. Recognition is important in order to be able to exercise control, but we can only do so under strict conditions and subject to an improvement in the current procedure. The rule of thumb should be: recognition after screening and continue to screen after recognition. Ladies and gentlemen, the above was, of course, only a small anthology of the many hundreds of recommendations contained in the report. Our work isn't done yet. You can count on us to continue with the recommendations in order to put them effectively into practice and to follow them up. Finally, of course, I would like to thank all the members for their cooperation in committee, as well as the chairman, Mr Dewael, the experts and the committee secretariat.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip192x.u18	Mr President, Prime Minister, Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, having referred as co-rapporteur to some of the recommendations made concerning the various aspects dealt with by the Committee of Inquiry, I would like, on behalf of the MR Group, to dwell for a moment on the aspect which was particularly concerned with radicalism and radical Islamism. First of all, if we have succeeded today in making recommendations – and recommendations with the consent of all the political parties – it is nevertheless first of all the demonstration that our country had to catch up with a certain delay in the fight against radicalism. Indeed, on 22 March 2016, it was a certain form of naivety that flew in bursts, in Belgium. Thirty-two people were cowardly murdered, hundreds of others injured. It is also our most fundamental freedoms that have been attacked. Our values, our way of life, which form the cornerstone of our democracy, were clearly targeted and still remain so. Not in Raqqa, not in Mosul, but in the very heart of our country. The attacks in Brussels, Paris, Tunis, Istanbul, London, Berlin, Madrid and so many other places have forced the same observation each time: these acts are rooted in religious radicalization. Radicalism, ladies and gentlemen, we must be able to recognise it, it is one of the failures of our integration policy. Is it normal, in fact, that today, in its first recommendations, the commission must specify "all authorities must recognize the problem of radicalism and fight against it"? Is it normal that today, in 2017, our committee must see so many differences between the integration routes developed in Flanders, Wallonia or Brussels, and I am not just thinking of the fact that these routes are not yet made compulsory everywhere, especially in my region? Is it normal for our committee today to see "the absence of a clear and exhaustive cadastre that would list mosques and other places of prayer in connection with Muslim worship and existing in the national territory"? Ladies and gentlemen, these various questions, the Reform Movement has deplored them for a long time. But today, after many discussions and sometimes passionate debates, we are pleased to have been able to adopt together recommendations to adapt tools at the disposal of the authorities and security services in order, precisely, to raise our level of security. Among the recommendations that contribute to a better fight against the scourge of radicalism, I will highlight - as I mentioned in the presentation of my part of the report - the one that relates to weak signals. When our group went to the Paris Prefecture in 2015, we found that in each administration – prisons, transport, housing companies, public bodies – referents had been appointed to identify clandestine prayers, refusal to comply with orders given by women, school absenteeism, refusal to shake hands with women, virulent words. These are weak signals which are now recommended by the commission to draw up a list at the disposal of all the actors in prevention and repression policies, to enable them to work better and with greater vision in the detection of radicalised or radicalised individuals. It is imperative that the detection of radicalisation phenomena by actors on the ground - whether at the local, police, administrative or preventive level - can be better adapted to the scale and nature of the phenomenon, because it forms the anti-chamber of terrorism. This list of signals must, of course, be dynamic, scalable and be based on local, sectoral and academic experiences, in order to react as quickly as possible to the adaptability of radicalised individuals. Another recommendation is the OCAM information list. The hearings confirmed that the vectors of religious radicalization are also found outside the mosques. And it would be useful, especially for the mayors, to have more information from our intelligence services. Therefore, the committee recommends that a legal framework be developed to enable local and supra-local authorities to benefit, at their duly justified request – in accordance with their monitoring function and in the context of the fight against radicalism – from information in the possession of the OCAM in relation to sociocultural, sports, cultural or other organisations present in the territory and in which they exercise responsibility. Finally, I want to say a final word about the local integral security cells (CSIL). All investigations conducted prior to or after terrorist attacks or attempted terrorist attacks have demonstrated the importance of information exchange to ensure effective intervention by the security services. The local integral security cells, set up at the initiative of the federal government, are a key tool to respond to this need because they are located as close to the ground as possible, bringing together actors as varied as police officers, administrative officials, coordinators of teams of peacekeepers, social workers or school workers. CSIL is undoubtedly one of the keys in the detection of cases of radicalisation and thus in the fight against terrorism. Willy Demeyer, you said it and I repeat it: it is regrettable that too few communes have equipped themselves with this tool! For, through them, it is a permanent work of census, vigilance and local control that is implemented, as the Canal plan does. We can only support the implementation of good practices developed within the framework of this plan for all Belgian cities and municipalities. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after 18 months of work, it would be unfair not to respond to certain attacks on our country. One of the main findings of our group's work is that we are not a failed State. We are not a failing State. Our soldiers engaged in Operation Vigilant Guardian are present on the ground. The judicial police are focused on these terrorism-related investigations. Our judicial system has never more condemned acts related to terrorist activities. Of course, there are avenues for improvement and that is what many of the actors we have met during our work have told us. We must therefore continue this dynamic, continue to support together the initiatives that will, in the coming months, make it possible to implement the recommendations necessary to protect our common foundation of values and to strengthen our security. And we will have to do this, ladies and gentlemen, by making common sense prevail over ideology. We owe it, not just to the victims. We owe it to all our fellow citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip192x.u19	Mr President, after having just been given the floor as co-rapporteur, I would also like to speak on behalf of our group. Colleagues, 22 March 2016 is a day that we must never forget. When it comes to that day, we will all be able to answer the question for a lifetime: 'Where were you when you were informed of the attacks in Brussels?' The images of human suffering and the havoc will remain burned on our retina forever. It is therefore appropriate to address the victims in the first place. More than 30 lives were torn away. Hundreds were injured and so much family suffering was caused. Colleagues, we have listened to the victims and their families. We have tried to improve existing arrangements. We have developed new solutions, including for foreign victims. We also learned from them. We have learned that, in addition to material and financial compensation, other aid is also appropriate for the victims: helping them in the administrative difficulties in our difficult state structure, which has its relevance to victims, providing them with legal aid and, above all, providing them and their relatives with psychological care. First come the care, guidance and identification of victims and informing their families, correctly and quickly. That's crucial. We certainly learned those lessons from the attacks. Many colleagues have just rightly paid tribute to all emergency services. I want to include the dozens, hundreds of people who were near the attacks and were not professionals in emergency services or police, but have spontaneously provided help and given the best of themselves in that tribute. They have shown that people can be big in difficult circumstances. Colleagues, with the attacks in Brussels we were faced with another form of crime and another form of violent radicalism. Primary resources were often used and random victims were mostly sought, especially as many victims as possible, regardless of who they were. This requires a new approach, first and foremost for the intelligence and security services. If we want to prevent preventive action from doing worse, we need better equipment, more people deserve more resources, as the government has done, but this also deserves more cooperation between, for example, the State Security and the ADIV. Then, in addition to a national strategic security plan, it also deserves a national strategic intelligence plan. Then it also deserves, beyond our national borders, as we have been given Europol and then Eurojust, Eurointelligence. A small country like ours can play a leading role in this, if only to move forward, if necessary only with the countries that are already ready to do so. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to an important information collection, what we are doing with this information is at least as important. If we look at the reports adopted in the Chamber by the Dutroux Committee and the Gang Committees I and II, then we learned that sharing information was the Achilles heel of our security policy. To our regret, we in the Chamber must unanimously make that same recommendation again today. Despite police reform, the information system remains a weak link: a multitude of databases, even within a single service, such as the police, the non-processing of information, the lack of or insufficient sharing of information. There's happy projects going on. One of these good projects is iPolice, but it will take years for that project to be fully operational. However, it must not only concern the police. All security services should be involved in the exchange and collection of information. That is why I shall come back to what I said as a co-rapporteur. The crossroads bank for security is so crucial, because we have expertise in our country. In this respect, with the Crossroads Bank of Social Security, we are a precursor in Europe. In fact, we have won numerous prizes. We have expertise in that field. Let us increase this expertise in the security domain, involving all services. Many departments, many administrations and many government ministers, Prime Minister, will have to be involved. That is why I call on you, together with the relevant ministers, to take the lead in this, to coordinate, to identify final leaders and senior officials, to provide a timing and to approve a plan of action so that what we all agree on can be implemented as quickly as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that it will never happen again, but if such an incident occurs again in our country, of any kind, we cannot afford to set up a committee again to recommend that we cooperate better and share more information. This really should be the last time. Colleagues, we are in favour of strengthening security services. We are in favour of strengthening intelligence services. We call for the strengthening of police and judicial services. We call for more resources, more people, more manpower, more women's power. We call for better legal instruments. Much has happened in this area since the first attacks in Paris, but that must not escape our attention. We need to pay more attention to safety. We must devote more resources to safety. We must also pay attention to the democratic control of those who will have to guarantee security for us. This should not prevent us from paying attention to the fundamental rights and freedoms of the vast majority of people in our country, Belgians and non-Belgen, who think well with their neighbors and should not undermine their freedoms and their rights in this matter. That healthy balance between security and freedom must be maintained if we are to maintain a democratic society. Colleagues, I would like to talk with you about the last part, which gave an unspeakable picture of the expansion of radicalism in our society, fuelled by forces aimed at confrontation and polarisation, using new technologies, fed both in the prison environment and abroad. I will never forget a statement in the testimony of one of the security people: "You radicalize very quickly, but it is damn hard to deradicalize someone. That takes a lot more time." This points to the importance of prevention. A process of radicalisation has many facets. In that context, I would like to quote what I read last weekend and what struck me very much. I quote Professor Cas Mudde in an interview: "It is completely idiotic to claim that this terror has nothing to do with Islam, but proclaiming that it has everything to do with it is just as ridiculous. If you're saying you can prevent terror, you're just not being honest. Most of all, you create false expectations and you respond to the feelings of xenophobia. Of course you shouldn't look away, but if you're going to name everything, you should also name everything. Terrorism is indeed from Molenbeek and not from an expensive residential area. Discrimination and social deprivation are of course no excuse to blow people up, but in most cases the background of these terrorists is not strict-Islamic." Colleagues, disadvantages and discrimination which cannot be accepted..................................................................................................................................................................... However, cultural differences are not a valid excuse for stigmatizing an entire population. I remember that a majority of people are focused on a peaceful and forward-looking society, people of different origins and people of different beliefs. Building a society is not just about us, but about us. This can only be achieved if we build bridges and if we dare to transcend differences. In a Flemish newspaper this morning I read that the Saudi Crown Prince advocated for 2 500 managers a moderate and tolerant Islam, which he wanted to restore with an open view of the world and other religions, and that he wanted to eradicate extremist thought. If the report on that plea is correct, then I can only welcome it. After all, our committee of inquiry, our assembly and our society want this to happen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have also built bridges in our parliamentary committee of inquiry. As a result, we were able to adopt the recommendations of our committee unanimously. The logic is therefore that these recommendations are being implemented. First of all, Prime Minister, I would like to address you and your government, as well as the state governments in our country, which have powers in several of the areas concerned. I am not just addressing our country; I am also addressing Europe. I am addressing the various parliaments, including ours. It is our collective responsibility to implement these recommendations and to deliver them on the ground. We owe it to the victims and their families.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip192x.u20	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I will not repeat what has already been said in this rostrum by my excellent colleagues. Instead, I will try to summarize why I consider the work of this committee, as well as the reports that we have produced under Patrick Dewael's presidency, to be a double victory for democracy. Parliamentary work is indeed the real democratic response to the threat and terrorist acts, for two essential reasons. Here's the first one. As has been said, we have done a lot of work. We conducted an in-depth examination: 199 witnesses, 162 meetings, including 48 public meetings and 114 in camera, some 470 hours of debate and some 4,000 pages of documents, as Ms. Onkelinx recalled earlier. As a result of this work, we can submit strong and effective recommendations for your consideration in order to better organize and win the fight against Islamist terrorism. It was nothing more than the parliamentary method characteristic of the democratic system that brought us together that allowed this result. But there is a second reason, just as essential. It puts the work of this Committee in line with the genuine response to terrorism, through the balance that we have achieved between, on the one hand, taking absolutely necessary security measures, and, on the other hand, preserving the individual rights and fundamental freedoms that are the values of a liberal democracy in the broad sense of the term. With this text, we reply twice. First, by giving public authority in the service of the State legal and regulatory weapons necessary to combat terrorism, then by telling those who want to make democracies deny themselves that we have not fallen into their trap. To deny our values would, in the long run, be to give reason to our enemies, to those who have taken democracy, thought, freedom as their target. That is why I am very pleased to have been able to participate in this work and the agreement that led to consensus conclusions. I join my colleague and rapporteur, Philippe Pivin, in expressing the satisfaction of having been able to reach many recommendations, particularly in the fight against radicalism and radicalisation. These are problems to which my political formation has been attentive for many years. In 2010, we tabled a resolution on radicalization in prison. There was the fight against the port of burqa, the fight against Sharia4Belgium, etc. Within the framework of the Committee of Inquiry, we welcome the fact that many of our own recommendations have been adopted, including an increase in the legal possibilities for sanctioning incitement to terrorism, hatred and violence, and a ban on political parties that would lead to this drift. This is written in the report. We are also involved in making greater use of the legal possibilities for dissolving de jure or de facto associations that are considered problematic because they spread ideas that are contrary to the law. Similarly, we are participating in the demand to strengthen the fight against hate preachers and to make this struggle uncompromising. The hearings confirmed that, even though mosques are less radicalist today – due to an already increased control – a very conservative, Wahhabi-style Islam continues to be conveyed in many of them. That is why we need to further increase controls and call for more transparency. It is clear that the phenomenon that can lead to violent radicalism is increasingly present on the Internet. It was essential that a specific recommendation should relate to it. The Committee of Inquiry recommends that consideration be given to the possibility of introducing criminalization for the active and usual consultation of jihadist sites. That was an important point for our group. The freedom to believe or not to believe, the freedom to express oneself, to debate, the freedom to work, the freedom to move, the freedom to travel, in a word, the freedom to live are not negotiable. There is no acceptable accommodation possible with the law. We must maintain and defend freedoms and the rule of law. We will act without angelism and with determination. We will defend our founding principles in order to avoid any amalgam, but by naming things and without fear of identifying the enemy. We must give ourselves the means to achieve this goal: a free society where it is good to live and according to its own choices. Islamic radicalism will be fought unabated. In this regard, I also highlight everything that has already been carried by your government, Prime Minister. You and your ministers have already taken many decisions and implemented in our law various tools necessary for this struggle. It is true that this Government is the first to have been confronted with attacks directly on our territory. But, Prime Minister, you and your ministers were able to face and make the necessary decisions. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, every individual has a life course of his own, but everyone must be able to develop a faculty that I will call a social intelligence: to be able to share a common heritage of fundamental principles such as the right to a dignified life, the right to live in a democracy, the right to equality of men and women, and the secular separation of churches and the State. Without this common foundation, no life is possible in a society that – as you all know – has become more and more composite, more and more multicultural, more and more multi-convictional. For this, ladies and gentlemen, is the major challenge of the 21st century still emerging: to preserve the human dimension of humanity, not to give in to misunderstanding, fear and rejection. That is why I consider that, in the third part of this report on radicalism and the fight against radicalisation, there are pages of extraordinary interest for the fighting that we still have to carry out together. I am thinking here of pages 177 to 190 on school and education. I give you this clarification because I insist on the need to read them and read them again, but also to take up the challenges raised in them. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall return to a passage in which it is stated how much public authority, in terms of prevention, absolutely needs to see in the long term. It is a plea that I have already made in this forum, and I repeat: we must invest in knowledge. We must invest in the knowledge of man. We need to invest in the humanities and social sciences. The now globalized meeting of human beings urgently calls for the most in-depth understanding of what a human society is and what a human being is. We politicians, faced with new challenges, have everything to learn from human sciences, such as history, which is an essential subject, psychology, sociology, knowledge and translation of languages, and others. Even if, at the end of the day, it is, of course, the policy that has to decide. That is what we are doing, and that is what I have the honour to do with my colleagues, through the report of our work which is submitted for your approval. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip192x.u21	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I will stick to my modest speaking time as the third speaker in the PS Group. Although his speech was brilliant, I had to add a little to two aspects of my excellent colleague Mr Willy Demeyer's speech. Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to return to two themes. One has been very much discussed this afternoon: the section on radicalism – still in the air of my colleague Mr Miller. But first, Prime Minister, I would like to go back to the victim aspect. My first words obviously go to the victims and their families. I would like here, as other colleagues have done, to pay tribute to them. At the beginning of our committee's work, in the first few weeks, we analysed the relief services and the care of victims. We have made a series of observations. We noted the remarkable mobilization of relief teams, the problems of victim identification and monitoring, and the lack of a central contact point for family information and victim assistance. We then issued – and we were pleased with it – a series of recommendations such as the establishment of a single victim registration system, the establishment of a centre of expertise, the organization of free psychosocial and legal follow-up for victims and the organization of long-term psychiatric follow-up for victims and intervention staff. We also expressed the wish for the creation of a victim contact point. That was the state of our thinking after a few months of work by this committee. Ladies and gentlemen, we were naive to believe that we had met the expectations and all the problems that the victims and their families actually faced. What a shock when, last January, they came to explain their disarray in committee! What a shock to have heard them feel completely abandoned! What a shock to hear that they have been confronted with administrative arcane while, on the contrary, they should have received all our support and had their lives facilitated! Colleagues, as has been said several times this afternoon in this rostrum, they have called on us to take them by hand and, unfortunately, it was too late to do so, at this point in our committee work, we have tried to improve our recommendations. For my part, and on behalf of the PS Group, I welcome many of them. First, Prime Minister, on an initial proposal from our excellent President, Mr Dewael, the activation of an inter-federal task force of ministries and institutions concerned with the accompaniment of victims and representatives of victims' associations. The disparity of the competent authorities cannot be the cause of complications for our citizens, and this must be even less so in their own right. These task forces are still meeting and offer an essential ongoing dialogue. Nevertheless, Prime Minister, it seems that the reception and support of invited victims' associations could be clearly improved. I invite you to ensure that they are heard and respected at these meetings. I know that you attach importance to it, but they explained to us how difficult it was to be heard by this task force. On the other hand, the victims and families we heard told us of the heaviness and multitude of cases to be filled in. They must always provide proof – it's a climax! – their status as victims. To answer them, our committee has proposed the creation of a one-stop shop and the appointment of a reference person who will assist victims personally and proactively throughout the various procedures they must initiate. We also proposed the recognition of a true victim status, which is enforceable against all institutions, so as not to systematically have to be identified as such. Finally, we recommended the development of a single expertise that would meet the needs of all organizations that could provide the victim with assistance or compensation and to which it would be effective, ensuring the independence and impartiality of the experts. It was not tolerable that these victims would have to undergo the same expertise in several proceedings. Colleagues, other recommendations are on the table. They were mentioned: specific legal aid, tax issues, and I am going through them. There was also discussion about victims of foreign nationality. Among the deceased were 15 victims of foreign nationality. In the wounded, there were about 40 different nationalities. We want them to be fully integrated into the government's project and into future projects. If a bill has been passed, the work is not finished. In our work, we stressed the importance of establishing a French-language system, a system that would allow for full rapid compensation and comprehensive care and all the consequences arising from the attacks. We have to get to it. The victims were still heard on the radio this morning expressing their dissatisfaction with their post-traumatic follow-up, including the problems of those who remained at the scene of these atrocious attacks, who continued to support their colleagues in the relief services, in the security services. They stayed at work in the days that followed and then, at some point, they cracked. The insurances tell them today – and that's quite abnormal! – that they are not among the victims since they resumed their professional activities the day after the attack! Prime Minister, I really look forward to the involvement of the government and your personal involvement! It is not normal that we can look straight into the eyes those who risked their lives to help the victims, to help those who had just been hit by these terrorist attacks and to tell them: "Since you have been at the service of others, since you have given your energy despite the tear that you suffered, you will not be compensated and recognized as victims". Part two: Radicalism. I'll change the area and I'll be brief, I'll reassure you. Mr Pivin, the time is not at the polemic which has been desired, in discussion, by all the groups. We have had unanimity from beginning to end in this respect, and everyone has been involved in this issue. I am saying that we have addressed the phenomenon of radicalisation, as have other social phenomena. It is an eminently complex subject – it has been said – with countless causes. However, this chapter allowed us to sweep away the simplistic a priori and to demonstrate the need to take this problem with arms-the-body. We have always avoided stigmatization, and if we are not free from unfortunate interpretations, it was important to fight not against Islam, but against terrorism and Islamic radicalism. We have five themes, including radical Islam and the Great Mosque. Our conclusions tend to be transparent in the financing of mosques – and we invite believers to unite, in all trends, so that the Great Mosque is truly representative of the Muslims of Belgium – and that Islam practiced in our country is respectful of human rights and the values of our Constitution. Secondly, our committee has also looked at the relationship between radicalism and prison. We had to find that a significant number of the protagonists of the attacks on a European scale had all experienced a passage through the prison box. We have therefore stressed the importance of filling prison time, whether through training activities or activities aimed at leaving prison, but we have also addressed the difficulties of being active, of being trained, in overcrowded, dilapidated prisons. We have also stressed the need for proper training of prison officers and this seems essential to me, both because it is an important profession and in order to better perceive and take charge of withdrawal, radicalism. Finally, we stressed the importance of training and designating within prisons a reference "radicalism". Mr Miller has just referred to new technologies. Are they a support for radicalism or are they provoking it? The Internet and social networks are certainly tools of contact and knowledge, but they are also, and we observed during this commission, instruments used to polarize and radicalize. We have also talked about welcoming, integrating and discriminating in employment, and finally – surprisingly I am ending with the same concern as Mr Miller – prevention and radicalism in schools. In this regard, I would like to stress the importance of the local approach and of the actors on the ground in the fight against radicalism. In this regard, the need to work towards a better flow of information was highlighted, as was the essential role of the local police, the preventive officers – the eyes and ears of the field – and the fundamental role of social workers. Mr Prime Minister, President Dewael, my group will be involved – we are committed to it – without limits in the Monitoring Committee, if it is to be set up. We will have to remain extremely vigilant if the recommendations are to be implemented quickly in order to fight even more effectively against those terrorists who sow horror, who sow death! It's our duty!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip192x.u22	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, in preparing my speech I was thinking of Antoine de Saint-Exupéry, 'the essentials are often invisible to the eyes'. However, that is not the case with the Committee of Inquiry, quite the contrary. I would like to begin by thanking all those who have made this openness possible. In the case of aid, which is an extremely important part of the report, emergency planning deserves an integrated approach. We specifically advocate a permanent link and a structural interaction between the 100/112 plants. The Ministers for the Interior and Health will certainly be able and will continue to move on in terms of technical support. Minimum standards for each emergency power station are a must. Our particular attention is also focused on a suggestion made by a number of witnesses in the parliamentary committee of inquiry, namely the development of a digital platform, which makes visible capacity in any discipline visible in real time. In concrete terms, that platform will be filled in automatically when we are in a situation of threat levels 3 or 4, which would obviously be a huge step forward compared to the current situation. Equally strongly improved is the recommendation on the extension of the existing computer system of the 100/112 plants with a component Terrorist Attacks. The objective goes without saying: to communicate important decisions directly to all competent services in the country, ranging from the relevant FPS over the governors and the Crisis Centre to the local authorities. Ladies and gentlemen, if the OCAD and the Crisis Centre are housed in one location, which is not the case at present, this will undoubtedly lead to better information management, better information management and, above all, more efficient communication systems. Therefore, one physical location for the OCAD and the Crisis Centre is an important recommendation in the committee report. We believe that strengthening the information position of the Crisis Centre is a priority. Information is a concept that has often been used in the past statements. We must be aware that the information system is an essential component of our security architecture. The success of our security services is not due to quantity, but to the quality of information management. In the meantime, it will be clear to everyone that there are many possible interventions and far-reaching improvements. Ladies and gentlemen, our parliamentary committee of inquiry has put the finger on an acute wound. In daily practice, we find that judicial information and administrative information are of two separate worlds. The distinction is often thin but at the same time there is a large grey zone between these two worlds. Policemen on the ground, local, federal, judicial and administrative police, are really having a hard time making that distinction. This absurd practice often leads to an obstacle to the exchange of information and must therefore cease. The Committee therefore calls in principle for the judicial information report and the administrative information report to be merged into one and the same police report. Prime Minister, there are police databases, there are databases in the intelligence services and there are databases in the judicial services. This country has an innumerable number of databases, too many. I am sure you understand my point: in a jungle of databases, it is difficult to distinguish between the principal and the secondary. Rationalization is the word of order here. Our committee of inquiry takes a clear stand. We must try to reduce the number of databases. The remaining databases should be optimised and access to them should be facilitated. As a designated binder between the existing databases, we in the Committee of Inquiry put forward the idea of the crossroads bank for safety. Such an instrument should allow integrated data management and better coordination between the different services and bodies. It is not explicitly intended to duplicate or unnecessarily centralise existing databases, but rather to efficiently share relevant information between competent authorities in the different databases. Anyone who needs certain information, as simple as that, must be able to obtain it accurately and quickly. This is also a warm call for the forthcoming legislative work not to deal with excessive legalisation and to focus on the essence. The essence is the security and protection of our citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude my speech on the report of the parliamentary committee of inquiry, but I would like to make a comment, as it was in the report itself. A safety crossroads bank will only be possible if a thorough review of the legislative framework, the implementation of a management platform and, above all, the provision of the necessary budgets. The implementation of such an instrument may not be an easy walk through the park. It will require a certain stubbornness and tons of action. I'm sure the result of that is something I'm sure of. will be complementary and make a huge contribution to a better security architecture in this country. Let us therefore, for the benefit of our citizens, do so as quickly and as thoroughly as possible. You know it or you don't know it, but my contract of employment says I need to speak four words of Latin. Non multa, sed multum [[.]] Not much, but thorough.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip192x.u23	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have five minutes to discuss this report of 938 pages. Mr Dewael, that means 0.3 seconds per page. After the rejection of the Flemish interest from the Committee of Inquiry, we are also trying today to ensure that only the politically correct opinions are addressed. I understand that. You are afraid of the truth, you are afraid of a different opinion on this issue. This opinion, Prime Minister, may not be shared in this hemisphere, but unfortunately it is shared by the population. Mr President, it seems that during this four-hour sitting a debate on the report would have taken place, although I did not notice much of it; everyone came to say the same thing. According to my experience, after 30 years of parliamentary mandate, such committees usually lead to a sort of Stockholm syndrome, which means that today everyone, from Mrs Onkelinx to Mr De Roover, agrees on everything. Everyone agrees on everything. They raided each other and the chairman. This has taken at least 45 minutes to show how well the committee has done, how long it has met, how intense the work has been and how many pages of paper have been filled. Ladies and gentlemen, in the middle of this hemisphere there is a giant elephant, which no one has spoken of yet. However, the population knows that elephant and sees the population that elephant. That elephant bears a name with five letters: Islam. That word has fallen sideways here, when it was about radical Islam, salafistic Islam, wahabist Islam and Islamism. For the rest, the word "islam" has not fallen. I have heard from previous speakers and many other speakers that we are at war with terrorism. I have also heard that we are at war with radicalism. Mr Dewael suggests that we fight the violence. If I had allowed that to continue in the past, one would not have been at war with Nazism during the Second World War but with genocide; then one would not have been at war with communism during the Cold War but with war. Why not? That makes it all easy of course, and that is not how we should talk about the essence. But let us call a cat a cat and even say it, after four hours of meeting, we are at war. We are at war with Islam, whether we like it or not. Islam, which uses terrorism to undermine, destabilise and subject our free Western society to its political ideology or so-called belief. The problem is not Islam, the problem is Islam. I have already said it here, and I repeat, Minister Jambon, the source of all evil is the Koran, which is a licence to kill, 164 jihad verses long. This report ignores the causes of the terrorism of ISIS, Al-Qaeda, Boko Haram and so many other organisations, namely Islam as ideological support and mass immigration as a practical lever that was hardly mentioned. This report is based on the assumption, politically correct as we are, that it will all work out as long as we have the Islam we are dealing with in this context, there are countless proposals in this report, on which I will return immediately, if I have a few more minutes at least, but enough pampering, institutionalizing and liberalising. According to this report, however, if I read all this out, my five minutes of speaking time have already been used up, a lasting and trustworthy link must be established with all Muslims in Belgium (page 44), with as many recognized mosques as possible (page 51), greater diversity among intelligence and police forces, and the fight against racism in the police. I know the classics I've been hearing here for decades. Of course, more resources must also be made available for Islam and the Muslim executive, more Islam teachers must be recruited in education and so on. In short, I quote a passage on page 52: "The aim is to promote the creation of Belgian Islam." Instead of restricting Islam, which is the basis for ideological support for all that we have experienced in Europe over the past few years, and reducing Islamism, we are going to do the opposite; we are going to cherish Islam and provide even more facilities. Ladies and gentlemen, let us be honest, let me help you out of this illusory dream: there will be no Belgian Islam. What a pretence to shape a Belgian Islam by the way. There will be no Belgian Islam, there will be no enlightened Islam, and there will be no European Islam. The only thing left is an Islamic Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, the most important problem, if I understand correctly, is radicalisation. This report looks at the process of so-called radicalisation, of course, we, as Europeans, are superior as ever through an exclusive European pair of glasses. Has anyone in this committee ever bothered to invite some witnesses, Islamologists and people who are critical of Islam? And there are quite a few in our country and in Europe. But of course you'd rather not hear it. Has anyone ever wondered who the radicals are, not in our eyes, but in the eyes of the majority of Muslims? The radicals and the extremists, according to the Muslims, are, at least according to a large majority of them, heretics, the unbelievers, the kafirs, the sincere islam reformers and especially the apostate Muslims and the so-called liberal Muslims, who do not apply the Islamic rules or moderately. Those are the radicals, those are the radicalized ones, those are the extremists in the eyes of the Muslims. Only if you understand that, if you want to understand the abc of Islam, without interpreting it politically correctly as you would like to, will you also understand the real problem of rice, to which all these proposals will ultimately change nothing, no matter how well some are meant and no matter how technically necessary some are security proposals.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip192x.u24	May I ask you to conclude, Mr Dewinter?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip192x.u25	That's what I feared. After four hours of hearing the same speech, I cannot even give half of my speech here. The jihadis, the mujahedien, the Taliban, the Syrian warriors, the Muslim brothers, the Sharia preachers, but also IS, Al-Qaeda, Hamas, Boko Haram and other terrorists are in the eyes of a large part of the Muslim community not radicalized but freedom fighters, heroes and especially pious and good example Muslims, who follow the example of their prophet Muhammad. What you do not want to understand is that the Muslims do not play according to the same rules as we do and are therefore not interested in our rules of the game. Violence against non-Muslims, apostates, women and relatives is part of Islam's DNA and is considered a legitimate means of establishing their Dar al-Islam, their world caliphate. I will finish, Mr President, rest assured. I will allow the debate to continue in all serenity, as you would like to say, which means without any contradiction from anyone who might have a different opinion. Today you cut a branch of the tree here and there, but you do not touch the roots. However, the conclusion is obvious: without mass immigration and asylum, there is no Islam in Europe, no radical Islam in Europe, and without radical Islam in Europe, there are no jihadan attacks.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip192x.u26	May I ask for your last sentence...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip192x.u27	Finally, Mr President, allow me to make one last point. Finally, I would like to make a comparison. You behave like the English Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain in 1938. What was that man doing in 1938? He concluded the Munich Treaty with Hitler, after Sudetenland was occupied by the Nazis. He went back to Britain, waved the paper and said, "Peace in our time." We know what it's become. It got confused in our future, a few years later, because he thought he could bake sweet sandwiches with the Nazis, with national socialism. He thought he could make a deal with Hitler. Even today, we will not make a deal with Islam. Even today we will not get rid of it with some half-hearted proposals, with a report here and some curling balls petting there.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip192x.u28	Now you have to finish, Mr Dewinter. You are at twice your speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip192x.u29	There's gonna be more to it. There will have to be de-Islamicisation. We will have to stop the flow of immigration and we will have to ban Islam to the place where it belongs: on the other side of the Mediterranean.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip192x.u30	Mr President, Prime Minister, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, allow me first of all to welcome those who, on behalf of the victims of the various attacks we have experienced in Europe and in our territory, have expressed their confidence in the democratic institutions to respond to this permanent threat - which we will continue to face in the long term. Among these victims and among their loved ones, few have succumbed to the temptation of a will of revenge. On the contrary, there have been remarkable voices of women and men to remind us that democracy can only combat terrorism with its own instruments and its intrinsic strength, by resolutely turning its back on any temptation to use the means that barbarians seek to impose. We must first pay tribute to the courage shown by those who have suffered in their flesh, in their affection and in their lives, these atrocious tragedies, before developing any reflection on the future of our democratic institutions in the face of this threat that is not nearly extinguished. On behalf of my party, I will repeat that we will always be on the side of all the Democrats and the government whenever the government ensures that it remembers that the strength of democracy is ever more decisive than that of barbarism. It is true, then, that the strength of democracy presupposes that it becomes more effective in countering these threats. In this regard, I welcome the quality of the work carried out by the members of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry. Moreover, I agree with many of the views expressed by other speakers. I am thinking in particular of Mrs Onkelinx and Mr Miller, but they are not the only ones. The government has taken a number of significant actions and we have supported some of them. We have sometimes expressed reservations about other aspects, but today I would like to highlight some points on which we may have to go beyond what the committee recommends. First of all, of course, the section on victim assistance and compensation. Strengthening the role of the Single Window is one of the key recommendations of this part of the report. Indeed, as a result of the attacks, and others have said in this rostrum, many victims, both direct and indirect, have found themselves in an extremely difficult, complicated situation, involving many interlocutors in order to obtain both material and psychological care. Some of them, while waiting for news from a relative, unfortunately found themselves engaged, lacked information and, above all, lack of support and supervision. My group obviously supports the recommendations to set up a single window in particular, but I note, however, that the victims' aid committee is currently composed of a small number and I hope that, following the committee's recommendations, the government will give it the resources in terms of staff and budget to be able to carry out these essential tasks. The Committee of Inquiry also makes one of the most fundamental recommendations with regard to assistance and assistance to victims of terrorist acts, namely the reimbursement of actual costs incurred by victims. During the hearings of the victims of the 22 March attacks, it was recalled at length that it is essential that financial but also psychological assistance be provided as quickly as possible. The victims' sequelae are so important that there can be no doubt as to their total care. As far as is necessary, I would also point out that, when the Victims' Statute Bill was passed, my group had argued that victims of terrorist acts could receive a compensation pension as soon as a disability was found, regardless of the degree of disability. In that regard, I regret that the majority did not agree with the idea of moving towards that goal. The role of associations, as genuine actors on the ground, should not be underestimated and deserves particular attention. Indeed, it is essential to allow victims to rebuild as quickly as possible. These associations play a major role in this reconstruction process. They provide valuable psychological support and assistance in the rapid and effective care of victims. My group therefore supports all the recommendations aimed at increasing the role of associations in the field of victim assistance. A specific legal aid separate from legal aid organised by the Judicial Code must be put in place in order to prevent victims from bearing the costs. It is also imperative that such legal aid be independent of the resources of victims of terrorist acts. While my group supports the committee's recommendations on specific legal aid for victims, its implementation requires, above all, additional financial resources. The question, then, is when and how they will come into being. With regard to the recommendations in this part of the report on assistance and compensation for victims, my group strongly supports the creation of a specific fund to enable victims to honour the first costs, which are generally medical in nature, without waiting for more complete recognition of their needs. In my personal capacity, I would have liked this fund to have been set up when the law establishing a national solidarity status for victims of terrorist acts was passed. Unfortunately, this has not been done. But I have no doubt that, thanks to the work of the committee, a number of legislative advances will soon be made in order to ensure that the victims are adequately cared for. I would like to focus on intelligence services, their coordination, their effectiveness, the exchange of information, but also their technical, human and financial means. We know that there has been a lack of exchange of information, others have already expressed it. I cannot overemphasize the need for the rapid establishment of the collegial platform bringing together the leaders of the two major intelligence services: the civilian and the military. But the means will also have to be put in place to assess their actual collaboration on a regular basis. Indeed, it must be recognized that the culture of "each for oneself" has undoubtedly been the weakness of some of our intelligence and information services in the years preceding these terrible attacks. I will conclude with the question of the future of the police services. The antiquity comes back regularly: it would be better if some police areas merged. The recommendation is now limited to proposing it on a voluntary basis. However, it must be said that the real debate is not that. The real debate is the following. The community police service, if necessary in search of useful information to combat the rise of radicalism and terrorism, requires increased resources for the local police. These means are lacking, particularly in terms of personnel, because the budgets of the police areas, especially in Brussels, have been cut in view of the demographic growth so characteristic of this central region. It is therefore towards a refinancing of the local police that we must move towards a merger into a mega-police force that could not take on a work of proximity. I conclude with a point to which I devote essential attention. This is the affirmation of the secularism of the State. I have been advocating for many years for the inclusion of this principle in our Constitution. This is not a purely intellectual principle. It is a ferment of citizenship and a federative principle of it. In the face of all those who doubt the ability of citizens of all faiths, regardless of their convictions, to adhere to such a principle, I highlight the repeated calls of several personalities, including those from the Muslim community, for the principle of secularism, which is a principle of mutual respect and protection of personal freedoms, beliefs and beliefs, to find its strength in our legislation. This principle would make it possible to take another look at the evolution of our society and citizenship if, tomorrow, it could be the subject of a great national debate bringing together all the forces and representatives of the cults so that, finally, in a more shared citizenship, secularism, this essential democratic advance of the European continent, finds its place in our country, its application and its recognition.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip192x.u31	Mr President, it is a miracle that the unrecognised groups are also given speaking time in this House, but I thank you for that. The report has been worked hard. I would like to thank my fellow Members for that. The victims and the citizens deserve this. In view of my limited speaking time, I shall concentrate on one element: the legal protection of the liaison officer, Mr Sébastien Joris. Before one starts to tweet, bash or kick in a certain group, I can tell you that I wrote my first publication on this in 1997, so twenty years ago. In this hemisphere, very serious accusations were made by the Minister of the Interior to Mr Joris on 25 March, a few days after the facts. They said he screwed up. Blundering means someone's gone seriously wrong. These statements were made without any nuance or restraint, in stark contrast to the intervention of the Minister of Justice on the same day. So Mr Joris suddenly ended up on the first page of all the newspapers. So there has actually been an additional victim here. What is the legal situation of Mr Joris? First of all, he's not getting disciplinary proceedings, so he can't defend himself. Secondly, he cannot file a civil case or a criminal complaint, because the Minister of the Interior is subject to ministerial irresponsibility. Thirdly, he cannot initiate civil proceedings against the Belgian State either, since the unfortunate sect judgment of 2006. Fourthly, although Mr Joris is widely heard by the parliamentary committee of inquiry, he cannot establish individual responsibilities and ends by saying: 'We can make a number of observations, but we cannot rule on them'. I can believe that this has had a major impact on the life of Mr Joris, as he himself testifies in committee and as stated in the report. I sympathize with that. It must have been a terrible moment for that man. However, after an in-depth investigation by the Commissioner-General, it became clear that Mr Joris had complied with all the rules. If Mr Joris had actually failed, then I suppose the Minister of the Interior would have initiated at least a disciplinary procedure against that man. There are precedents. In the Allenet de Ribemont judgment, the European Court of Human Rights has to consider a Minister for the Interior. It is apparently contagious to make serious accusations about a citizen. That citizen will be acquitted afterwards. The European Court claims that the presumption of innocence was nevertheless violated. The same thing has happened to Mr Joris. No disciplinary action has been initiated against him, but that does not prevent the presumption of innocence from being violated. "Blundering" is a very heavy term and, as in the Allenet de Ribemont case against France, that word has been spoken here by a Minister of the Interior without the slightest nuance and without the least reserve, while it subsequently appears that the person concerned has followed all the rules. In the A judgment. against the United Kingdom, the European Court of Human Rights has considered ministerial irresponsibility and parliamentary irresponsibility to be in accordance with Article 6, but there is an important nuance. In paragraph 86, the Court states that this is in accordance with Article 6 and the right to justice for the sake of the fact that the United Kingdom's legal system provides for a remedy for Parliament, for the Chamber. That is not the case in our legal system. I pointed that out in 1997: there is none of this in Belgium. Now, ladies and gentlemen, that is shameful. Parliament is not a disgrace to which a person can be gratuitously nailed, and one does not even have to apologize afterwards and one simply continues to work while the person concerned is being chased deeper into the ground. My group is therefore tabling a motion in the hope that something will be done about it. We hope that a procedure will be put in place for the Chamber, as is the case in the United Kingdom. Such things are really embarrassing for a democracy. I have a few final comments to make. Like any parliamentary committee of inquiry, this committee excels in generalities and banalitys which are difficult to oppose. Should there be more cooperation, should there be a better flow of information? Who the hell could be against that? However, each time one revolves around the hot stuff. As far as police areas are concerned, there must be a certain increase in scale, but there is no risk of getting past the merger of the six Brussels police zones. There is also the part about radicalisation, where I honestly frown the eyebrows. Acknowledging as many mosques as possible, do you really think you will recognize all the garage mosques in Belgium? Is that what you think now? That's where the problem is. Do you really think you'll recognize them all? I'm sorry, but it won't work. I am also surprised at the last part because it contains recommendations on education, a Community competence, on local authorities, a regional competence, and even on culture, a Community competence since 1970. So we are actually re-federalising here, and I find that the idea of re-federalisation now seems to be in agreement within the Michael administration, something else I really cannot decide from that last part. In other words, my group will vote against the motion tabled by the chairman and vice-presidents of the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip192x.u32	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on 22 March 2016, the attacks on Brussels Airport and the Maelbeek metro station hit our country hard. Parliament then set up this committee of inquiry to examine how to reorient policy. As you know, when this committee was set up, it was decided that our party would not be allowed to participate in its work. However, it was with great interest that we analysed the four interim reports and the final report. It is clear that the committee has done a lot of work, has dealt with many aspects and has often done very detailed and precise work. The PTB applauds various analyses and recommendations of the report. I am thinking here, for example, of the fact that both in terms of security and assistance, the problem was often a lack of communication and collaboration, but also a lack of clarity in the distribution of competences and responsibilities. We can also support the call to examine the lack of resources both in terms of assistance and relief as well as in terms of security architecture and the fight against radicalism. This lack of resources concerns staff - where greater diversity is required - specific resources, infrastructure and information technology. One point which we believe is important and on which we wish to emphasize is that relating to the reclamation of the local police. We hope that this will lead to a turnaround, a return to a community-oriented police, to the population and a distancing of the dominant model that is to be put in place today, namely that of the law and order with a police almost exclusively oriented towards repression. We share the view of the committee that, to date, the government has committed itself primarily to repression rather than prevention and that this should be addressed. When the government focuses on repression, it is the sign that it is already too late, that the prior work to prevent the departure of young people in Syria or their radicalization has not been properly carried out. This is explained by Paul Ponsaers, Emeritus Professor of Criminology in Ghent, when he describes the government's policy in these terms: "All measures have relied on blind faith in the deterrent force of research and sanctions against already radicalised young people who, without fear, blow up their explosive belts". In terms of prevention, we believe that the report does not go far enough. There is some analysis of the root of radicalism, but there are a limited number of proposed measures such as situation tests, mystery calls, on racism in the labour market, but we do not find a comprehensive social emergency plan against discrimination. The proposals on education are limited to encouraging teachers to report students in the process of radicalisation and to develop an alternative discourse on Islam, for example, but there is nothing to say about the fact that our teaching is one of the worst students in the class about the reproduction of social inequalities. There is no word on the consequences of our military interventions, there is not a single question of Belgium's role in the Middle East unless: "Daesh often uses this argument to justify its threats and actions against Belgium". There is no analysis of the destabilizing consequences of our bombings. Similarly, racism, which is widespread in our society, is often reduced in the report to pretexts of terrorism. There is no denunciation of polarization in our society, a polarization encouraged by certain parties, only for the sake of politically marking points. I am pleased to note that the report recognizes as a real problem the infancy of obesity, the excess of information of the intelligence services, the justice system and the police. At the same time, I note the insufficient targeting of people with a real threat. Better information management and coordination between data banks are needed. Surprisingly, the proposed measures do not call into question the reasons for this too much information. Widespread surveillance is the extension of the definition of terrorism. We even perceive a call to implement PNR systems, such as ANPR cameras, more quickly, which will add to the mass of information. Yet Beatrice de Graaf, professor of international relations at Utrecht University, says: "We know that the collection of information and the creation of data banks do not automatically prevent attacks. Worse still, one might even say that they are automatically ineffective." The report denounces over-regulation and over-adjudication, which undermines the effectiveness of intelligence services. On a number of occasions, it is reiterated that intelligence services should sometimes be able to work a little more creatively. As a result, control over intelligence services is weakened, while their skills continue to grow. Thus, the Sûreté could be allowed to use disruptive techniques, i.e. to disrupt harmful activities. Similarly, infiltration through civilians should be encouraged, according to the report. However, in Belgium, especially in comparison with neighbouring countries, democratic control and transparency of intelligence services are far from being achieved. The PTB has also tabled a bill to address this issue. According to the Venice Commission, "more democratic control and a different form of control seem to be necessary in a post-11 September democratic society." Another dangerous element is implicitly justifying the increasing dilution of the separation of powers. The strict separation between police, intelligence and justice – a measure intended to protect democracy – is abandoned, or diluted in any case, and replaced by a collegial approach between these powers. Similarly, we see that the independent judiciary, namely the investigating judge, continues to lose its power and resources in favour of the prosecutor's office, which depends on the executive branch. A number of questionable interventions by N-VA tenors have been too gently ignored. The presence of Mr. Bart De Wever at a police meeting in the office of the Minister of the Interior the day after the attacks, first described as unacceptable, became simply inopportune thereafter. The report states that the Turkish liaison officer, Sébastien Joris, "does not commit any fault despite the serious accusations he has suffered from Minister Jambon", but the commission does not want to express itself on the ethics of a minister who directly, and wrongly, designates a scapegoat. In general, the report does not contain a critical analysis of the government's policy, although it adopted measures during the work of the commission of inquiry to which several opposition parties were opposed. By not discussing these measures, some passages in this report may serve as a blank for government policy. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, we shall abstain from voting.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip192x.u33	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, in view of the time allocated to me, I have looked further at the third and fourth reports of your Committee of Inquiry, namely the sections on "Security Architecture" and "Radicism". As regards the "Security Architecture" component, the voluminous report dealt essentially with information in general, and that is indeed the stumbling block. Whether it is judicial, administrative, soft or harsh, information management will always depend on a man or woman with its advantages and disadvantages, strengths and weaknesses. At the end of the 1990s, police reform had already been initiated as a result of a problem in the flow of information between the various bodies of the time. The Central Research Office and the Office of the Attorney General of the Judicial Police have merged to create the information hub at both the national, regional and borough levels. New computer software has been implemented. New databases have been developed, but 20 years later, your committee makes a similar observation, which is proof that there is no miracle recipe in this area. The National Security Council, the OCAM and the various task forces have, of course, an important role to play and, indeed, a key role. However, they can play this role effectively only if the data banks are properly fed by all members of the police service, including the State Security Service and the General Intelligence and Security Service. But that would not yet be enough, because in the area of crimes, we are now prohibited from thinking at the national level alone. We must raise our thinking to at least the European level. Indeed, whether it be organized gangs or terrorist groups, they operate in an international dimension. We must therefore not only be effective in Belgium, but also at European level. All Member States must be part of this dynamic and Europol's functions must be rethought in the image of the European Union. In conclusion, for this "Security Architecture" component, we do not believe that it is appropriate to throw the stone at one or the other service, or to one or the other member of these services, but rather to see the shortcomings and adapt them to the terrorist context. Your recommendations are, at the very least, very light, in the light of your observation, on the lack of cooperation between federal and local police. For notwithstanding the scale of the work produced by the Minister of the Interior since 2014, he has been facing a police culture based, for too many years, on a form of angelism. As far as the "Radicalism" aspect is concerned, I will confine myself to finding that you continue to deny the obvious and not to name the problems by remaining anchored in the "not amalgams". Radical Islam is a danger to everyone, it must be said. Some mosques, moreover numerous, are places where hatred of the West is the main theme, and whose salafo-wahhabi current is totally incompatible with our democratic values and beliefs. So trying to contextualize certain vectors of this Islam results in the permanent danger of our fellow citizens. You devote many lines, on page 18, in the fourth interim report, to explaining that you do not want to focus on Islam, but that it is the simple result of this commission's mandate. You're already apologizing before you start! The theme of integration has attracted particular attention. In Wallonia and Brussels, we suffer from a lack of political courage in this area. Political clientelism has taken precedence over reason. Belgium has always been a host country. But, unlike the past, we no longer have enough jobs available to integrate these people through work. In order to maintain a certain comfort of life, we must integrate these people willingly or forcefully because, by repeating the past, we favour the rise of extremes. In conclusion, your commission has made excellent recommendations, particularly with regard to the status of the victims' families. But, once again, you missed the appointment that would have allowed you to annihilate this dangerous phenomenon that you refuse to name and that becomes a serious and disturbing problem for most of our fellow citizens. Indeed, they no longer see how to live together, but rather how to live with it. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have a regret. While the names of the terrorists are known to all, I regret that we have never paid a nominal tribute to each of the victims in this Assembly. They would have deserved us to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip192x.u34	Mr President, Prime Minister, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, 22 March 2016 will remain in our collective memory forever. The human toll was particularly high with 32 deaths and hundreds of injuries. The attacks had a major impact on our society. We have since had to live with the threat of blind terror in our country. Because these attacks were so traumatic, precisely because the toll was so high and because everyone was wondering how that could happen, we as a Parliament set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry. Ladies and gentlemen, it is the most powerful instrument available to a Parliament to exercise its supervisory powers. So we have to deal with this carefully and selectively and only use it if it is really necessary. That was indeed the case after the attacks. Colleagues, why was the committee so important in my view? Well, she was important because, on the one hand, we made a reconstruction of the facts. We have formulated an answer to the question of how that could happen. That has a purifying effect. The committee has also effectively reversed the bottom stone and clarified it. On the other hand, on the basis of this knowledge, we have also made recommendations to improve laws, rules and procedures, in short, the whole system. That is even more important in my view. Not only do we want to point the finger, but we also want to draw lessons from the attacks and better weapons for the future. However, I would like to make it quite clear that this was also the case at the end of the committee that we can never guarantee absolute safety. There's no such thing as a zero risk society. However, within the framework of our rule of law, we must do all we can to avoid attacks from now on. Colleagues, I believe our report is groundbreaking. We found that the immediate relief operations took place well on 22 March. Problems have arisen with regard to communications, the field command post and dispatching to hospitals. Our recommendations are already being implemented and will make a difference; I think, in particular, the adaptation of contingency plans, priority gsm numbers and the strengthening of ASTRID. The aid to the victims was a lot more difficult. The hearing with the victims was one of the most poignant that we had. The victims have pushed us right into the facts. The Prime Minister also recognised in his State of the Union that the victim care could indeed be improved. In the meantime, the victims have been granted a status of recognition. Other recommendations were also implemented. It is my hope that our committee of inquiry has been able to alleviate the immense suffering of the victims. They will be marked for life and they deserve all our support. Colleagues, the focus of our investigation was then on security architecture: police, justice, intelligence. We have separated the whole safety machine and we have kept all the parts as it were from the light. We've replaced certain pieces. We have added oil where necessary and we have then reassembled the machine. I believe that was necessary. 'Cause what's turned out to be? The services have all worked very hard separately, day and night, up to the edge of the human. But they did so too much on their own territory, on their own island, which missed opportunities here and there. The main thrust of our recommendations is therefore cooperation, cooperation and cooperation. In other words, the Committee of Inquiry is building bridges between the different islands. The various services must be able to put together all the pieces of the puzzle, in order to better assess the threat and to set the necessary priorities. Finally, we have looked at Islam radicalism. I admit that this was perhaps the most difficult part. Why do people turn away from our society, often in a minimum of time? Why are they attacking us with blind force? How can we deradicalize people? The Committee of Inquiry stresses the importance of prevention, of quality supervision. We must involve all parties: education, the labour market, the environment, the police, street educators and also mosques. This is a long-term task. We will have to connect instead of dividing people. We are also sending out a clear and very important signal. A radical version of Islam preaching on our property, which runs counter to our Constitution, sponsored and funded from Saudi Arabia, can no longer exist. There are limits to tolerance. We take the Great Mosque out of those radical and foreign hands and return it to the broad Muslim community. She must be able to become a symbol of connectedness. Colleagues, we have heard 199 witnesses, 164 meetings and a 939-page report. When we started our work a year and a half ago, many were sceptical. The committee would get bogged down in party politics games. Nothing could be further from the truth. The committee has worked on a charge and a charge. We have gone beyond the limits of majority and opposition, and the committee has finally reached an agreement unanimously. In other words, Parliament is united in the fight against terrorism. I think this is a very strong signal, not only to our citizens, but also to the government and all the services involved. They receive the greatest support and respect from our hemisphere, but we also expect them to complete and complete our report. So it's impossible to take or leave. There is an unseen authority and support for this. That is why Parliament will not let go of the report and the safety dossier after today. The Committee of Inquiry is now bored with a follow-up committee and, at regular intervals, we will examine the progress made in implementing the recommendations. I would like to conclude with a few words of thanks. Thanks to the security services who, day after day, gave the best of themselves for our safety. Thank you to all the members of the committee of inquiry for their constructive cooperation. My thanks also go to the four experts, especially the professors Bruggeman, Van Daele, Martens and Dantinne, for their insights, their support and also their angelic patience. They have had to be very patient, but in the end, thanks to their expert advice, we have managed to keep up with the consensual approach over and over again. I would also like to thank the secretariat, in particular Mr Van Koekenbeek, Mrs De Backer and Mrs Marquet. Thank you also to the services of the Chamber and the political study service. Without them, we could not have presented this report today. Colleagues of the committee, we have spent many days together to complete our important mission. I think we have succeeded in this together. It was our duty, not least with regard to the 32 victims who died on 22 March 2016 or who will bear the scars of it forever. We will never forget them. We'll never forget them!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip192x.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this 22 March 2016 was the irreparable event. What we feared happened. For ever, this will remain an injury in the history of our country. They're innocent victims who have been affected. It is our convictions and our certitudes that are the most entrenched in terms of freedom, democracy and the rule of law that have been shaken. We have a duty - parliament, government, majority, opposition - to take note of this shock that has so strongly shaken our society, to rise to the level and to shoulder our responsibilities. That is why we think it was crucial that, in the context of a democratic response, a committee of inquiry took the decision to provide transparency about the facts, to do everything for the truth and to do everything possible to draw lessons from them. It is about learning from a tragedy, a tragedy, and doing so through the force of a democratic response, as has been said. It will be based on the strength of representative and parliamentary democracy. Oppose the light of democracy, the rule of law and freedoms to barbarism, oppose hatred respect, tolerance and the necessary serenity: it is the work that has been carried out. On behalf of Parliament, I would like to pay tribute to the chairman of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry, to all its members and to the teams who have worked for almost a year and a half to draw up a document which will be submitted for approval by this House. It will be endowed with great strength and legitimacy. It will be a step, a further impetus in the service of freedoms and democracy. I will make a number of more specific points. I do believe that the emergency services, even when they were faced with such a tragedy for the first time, have very quickly taken important initiatives and decisions. As mentioned by a number of Members, I tried very quickly with my colleagues from the government to learn from it after a first publication of this chapter of the report in August. We have tried very quickly to achieve improvements, particularly in the context of emergency plans, to better integrate the threat and danger of terrorism at the national and provincial levels. We also wanted to mobilize all efforts around the airport, to learn lessons, reduce risks, and take initiatives to strengthen the airport's ability to raise the level of security. We have, as has been said, further strengthened initiatives through communication. ASTRID, the priority lines and the information by SMS are points, but we will obviously continue the work regularly. We will be determined, and we will work with Parliament, which will also fully assume its role. The second important chapter of this report concerns a fundamental point, both for Parliament and for the government, in particular the situation of the victims and the families of the victims. I remember very well a telephone conversation with the chairman, Mr Dewael, who told me a few hours after the committee hearings that the committee members were impressed by the message from the victims and the families of the victims. We immediately understood how crucial it was to pay more attention, to show more commitment, to be more informed and to take additional initiatives. As I solemnly said in this rostrum, on behalf of the Government, I believe that, with regard to the issue of victims, all services have mobilized to try to do the best and to meet this immediate and dramatic human concern. Perhaps at the outset, as a result of the security emergency, the government considered that the mechanisms would work optimally. We have understood, in dealing with the victims, that there may have been a lack of individualized follow-up and that there is certainly a need to accelerate and strengthen this capacity to be up to date. Just a few weeks after the attacks, decisions were taken to strengthen mechanisms. However, we still have to go beyond that. A few months ago, this Parliament voted on texts to strengthen the situation of victims. We will, together with the minister and all colleagues, continue to work within the framework of this inter-federal task force to become even more operational and to meet more with these concerns, which must all mobilize us. We will also look at how victim associations can take place alongside politicians. Because it is also their duty to fully assume their responsibilities. Ladies and gentlemen, another major challenge is the security architecture. How can we draw lessons to achieve a strategy of greater efficiency and security for our citizens? How can police forces, the Justice Department and the intelligence services cooperate even more and better? How can we do better? How can we do more? Nor is there any doubt that this report is an important and legitimate source of inspiration for additional results. Over the last three years, we have tried to carry out important reforms, supported by Parliament. These are dozens of measures that have been submitted to Parliament to systematically try to strengthen the legal and operational capacity of our security headquarters in order to be more quickly able to prevent the threat and to react when it is facing us. I am thinking here of round-the-clock searches, decisions on, for example, the necessary constitutional reforms on a number of points, in order to strengthen the capacity of the security services, decisions on specific research techniques, decisions to improve the stimulation of additional capabilities for the OCAM, for the Crisis Centre, for the intelligence services. But we are well aware of the need to continue, with Parliament, with the various colleagues, with the services that have experience on the ground, to examine how we can make our security services even more operational in order to deal with the threat before us. We are determined to be fully committed, with the National Security Council, to achieving such much-needed results. Several members highlighted the issue of financial resources. The financial resources are, of course, also a crucial issue. We have tried to draw lessons from the past and we have made additional financial resources available. We also know that such a budgetary exercise is a permanent political exercise. It is a debate characterised by our democratic differences, which also makes sense. We will have a very regular opportunity, within the framework of the democratic activities of our assembly, to see how we can do better and more. With means that must be released. With the demand to make proper use of the means available and by ensuring, as has been said by some, that the mobilization in this House with the different levels of power, the different governments, with the local authorities, is as optimal as possible, in order to be able to tighten the grids in order to increase prevention. Another important point is the fight against radicalism. We have been faced with a tragedy, a tragedy, and we have all understood how crucial it is not only to build a reasoning about the consequences of a drama, but to develop a more preventive approach based on lessons from the past. And your commission of inquiry has made it possible, by hearing a large number of actors, to try to find a better understanding of this phenomenon of radicalisation. It has made it possible to better highlight the existence, alongside mechanisms of radicalisation at the departure of certain places of worship known or unknown, of other areas of radicalisation which, in recent times, had taken on an extremely large scale not only in our country but also elsewhere in Europe: the internet space, social networks, the situation of prisons. Initiatives in this area will need to be continued and deepened, as the issue is important. Links to foreign policy, links to the issue of religious financing and links to terrorist financing are issues that must be understood and understood in your work. I want to greet him and highlight him. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to close this brief statement on behalf of the government by telling you our total determination, our total motivation, so that this report does not simply remain a report and, then, that's all. On the contrary, this report must be the source for us to consolidate and strengthen the capacity of our society, our country, to assume one of the primary tasks of public authorities in a democracy: freedom and security. One goes with the other. In recent years in Europe and just over a year ago in Belgium, we have been confronted with the worst of humanity. We have been confronted with the worst of humanity. We've been confronted with the worst of barbarism. We measure that families, lives have been forever upset, that our country is forever marked. We also measure – as many have said in just words – that it is basically our way of considering the relationship between each of us and the society that has been struck, that idea that, whatever our origins, whatever our differences, whatever our spiritual or ideological convictions, there is a common background that connects women and men. Wherever they are born, wherever they come from, whatever their thought, this common background, they are universal values, they are fundamental values. The fundamental values, the fundamental freedoms, they form the basis of our community. And when it comes to a threat to our fundamental values that allow peaceful life, together, in tolerance and mutual respect, all of us must stand. All of us, beyond the democratic differences between us, must face up to it. In this report we have offered a response, the most beautiful response that is because it is democratic, with respect, tolerance and determination to defend our most fundamental values: democracy and freedom. Mr President of this committee of inquiry, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, we are going to work – I am committed to it – hand in hand with the Monitoring Committee to regularly assess the progress made, regularly see how we can step up our efforts. We are determined to ensure that it is freedom, security, democracy, love that triumphs against hatred.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip192x.u36	The Chairman: The meeting's over. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip192x.u37	Following the discussion of the report of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the circumstances that led to the terrorist attacks of 22 March 2016 at Brussels National Airport and at the Maalbeek Metro Station in Brussels, including the evolution and approach of the fight against radicalism and the terrorist threat, further motions were tabled. In conclusion of the discussion of the report of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry to examine the circumstances that led to the terrorist attacks of 22 March 2016 at Brussels-National Airport and Maelbeek Metro Station in Brussels, including the evolution and management of the fight against radicalism and the terrorist threat, the following motions were tabled. A first motion was tabled by Mrs Veerle Wouters and Mr Hendrik Vuye and reads as follows: "in DOC 54 1752/008 in IX. 8 Recommendations, add a Recommendation IX.8.6, denominated "Justice protection' in the case of statements made in the Chamber "Justice': 118. The Committee of Inquiry recommends that a procedure should be included in the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice which gives citizens a defence in the case of judgments or actions made in the Chamber and which fall within the scope of parliamentary irresponsibility or ministerial irresponsibility." Comments: Parliamentary irresponsibility (Art. 58 Constitution) or under ministerial irresponsibility (Art. 101 (2) Constitution) cannot be challenged under Belgian law. A criminal charge is not possible, nor is a civil procedure. In the A judgment. against the United Kingdom (17 December 2002), the ECHR has accepted that this is an implicit restriction of Article 6 ECHR which guarantees, inter alia, the right of access to justice. In the so-called'sect judgment', the Court of Cassation ruled that, as soon as acts fall within the scope of parliamentary or ministerial irresponsibility, a claim for compensation against the Belgian State is also not possible (Cass., 1 June 2006, C.05.0494.N/1). This judgment is open to criticism (see: A. Van Oevelen, "The State's liability for Parliament's errors: in the exercise of legislative activity, but not for the work of a parliamentary committee of inquiry," Legal Journal, 2006-07, 222 et seq.; H. Vuye, "Les irresponsiveabilités parliamentarye et ministrielle: les articles 58, 101, al. 2, 120 et 124 de la Constitution," Chroniques de droit public - Public-law chronicles, 1997, 2-27; H. Vuye, "Parliamentary irresponsibility and public liability in the light of modern democracy," in La Constitution here, aujourd'hui et demain. The Constitution yesterday, today and tomorrow, Brussels, Bruylant, 2006, 129-152). In the Anca judgment, the Court of Cassation ruled in the opposite regard, namely that the liability of the State is not necessarily excluded because the liability of its institution itself for the harmful act which it has carried out cannot be jeopardised (Cass., 19 December 1991, Pasicrisie, 1992, 1 316, Opinion Advocate General Jacques Velu). However, in the current state of cassation justice, citizens remain deprived of any legal remedy as soon as it concerns parliamentary or ministerial responsibility. So there's no access to the judge. However, this fundamental right is guaranteed by Art. 6 ECHR. The statements made on Mr Sébastien Joris are of such a nature that his suspicion of innocence has been violated. After all, the Minister of the Interior has stated that he has "blundered." However, no disciplinary procedure has been initiated against him. The judgment in Allenet de Ribemont v. France (10 February 1995) of the ECHR concerns a Minister of the Interior who made serious accusations against a citizen. Afterwards, this citizen will be acquitted. The Court held that the Minister's judgments infringed the presumption of innocence. The presumption of innocence can therefore be infringed even if the person concerned is subsequently acquitted. This applies equally to Mr Joris. There was no disciplinary procedure against him, but this does not prevent the presumption of innocence from being violated in relation to him: "blundering" is a heavy word. As in the Allenet de Ribemont case, it is a statement made without any reserve and it is of such a nature that the public believes that Mr Joris has committed a serious mistake. Afterwards, however, it appears that this is not the case. In the current state of law, only the legislative assembly itself can draw up a regulation in its Rules of Procedure (see: H. Vuye, "Les irresponsiveabilités parliamentarye et ministrielle: les articles 58, 101, al. 2, 120 et 124 de la Constitution," Chroniques de droit public - Public-law chronicles, 1997, 2 - 27). In the A judgment. against United Kingdom (17 December 2002), § 86) states that in the United Kingdom such procedures exist for Parliament: "La Cour observe que les victimes de déclarations diffamatoires prononcées au Parlement ne sont pas totalement privées de voies dedressement. Where the remarks in dispute are made by the Member of their constituency, such persons may, inter alia, make a request to Parliament through another Member for withdrawal. In extreme cases, deliberately false statements can be sanctioned by Parliament as an insult to it. ... The Court considers that all these elements are relevant to the question of the proportionality of the immunity enjoyed by the Member in this case." In a modern democratic rule of law, legal protection is an important element. This can be met without abolishing parliamentary and ministerial irresponsibility. We therefore propose that this be included in the conclusions of the Committee of Inquiry. The Court can take an important step here and provide citizens with legal protection." A first motion was tabled by Ms. Veerle Wouters and Mr. Hendrik Vuye and reads as follows: "In DOC 54 1752/08, IX. 8. Recommendations, insert recommendation IX.8.6 entitled ‘Legal protection in the event of statements made in the Chamber': 118. The Committee of Inquiry recommends that a procedure be included in the Rules of the Chamber to enable citizens to defend themselves in the event of statements made or acts made in the Chamber and covered by parliamentary irresponsibility or ministerial irresponsibility." Justification: Under Belgian law, declarations covered by parliamentary irresponsibility (Article 58 of the Constitution) or ministerial irresponsibility (Article 101(2) of the Constitution) may not be the subject of any appeal. A complaint cannot be filed in criminal proceedings, nor can civil proceedings be initiated. In A against the United Kingdom (17 December 2002), the ECHR admitted that this was an implicit limitation of Article 6 of the ECHR, which guarantees, in particular, the right of access to the judge. In the judgment on sects, the Court of Cassation ruled that, as soon as acts are subject to parliamentary or ministerial irresponsibility, an action for compensation against the Belgian State is also not possible (Court of Cassation, 1 June 2006, C.05.0494.N/1). Cet arrêt est critical (voir: A. Van Oevelen, "The State's liability for Parliament's errors: in the exercise of legislative activity, but not for the work of a parliamentary committee of inquiry, Legal Journal, 2006-07, 222 s.; H. Vuye, "Les irresponsiveabilités parliamentarye et ministrielle: les articles 58, 101, al. 2, 120 et 124 de la Constitution," Chroniques de droit public - Public-law chronicles, 1997, 2-27; H. Vuye, "Parliamentary irresponsibility and public liability in the light of modern democracy," in La Constitution here, aujourd'hui et demain. The Constitution yesterday, today and tomorrow, Brussels, Bruylant, 2006, 129-152). In Anca, the Court of Cassation took the opposite decision with regard to the judges, considering that the State's responsibility is not excluded by the fact that the responsibility of its organ cannot be incurred as a result of the harmful act committed by it (Court of Cassation, 19 December 1991, Pasicrisie, 1992, 1, 316, conclusion of Advocate General Jacques Velu). In the current state of cassation case law, however, the citizen is deprived of any means of action as soon as parliamentary or ministerial responsibility is raised. There is therefore no access to the justice provided. However, this fundamental right is guaranteed by Article 6 of the ECHR. The statements made about Mr. Sébastien Joris are of such a nature that his presumption of innocence has been violated. The Minister of the Interior said that he had "gaffed". However, no disciplinary proceedings were initiated concerning him. The decision of Allenet de Ribemont against France handed down by the ECHR (10 February 1995) deals with a Minister of the Interior who had made serious accusations against a citizen. Subsequently, the citizen was acquitted. The Court found that the Minister violated the principle of presumption of innocence through his statements. The presumption of innocence may therefore be violated, even if the person concerned is subsequently acquitted. This principle also applies to Mr Joris. No disciplinary proceedings have been initiated concerning him, which does not prevent that the presumption of innocence against him has been violated: "gaffer" is a heavy word of meaning. As in the case of Allenet de Ribemont, this is a statement that has been made unreservedly and is likely to lead the public to believe that Mr. Joris committed a serious misconduct. However, it was later found that this was not the case. In the present state of law, only the Legislative Assembly may provide for a procedure in its Rules of Procedure (see: H. Vuye, "Parliamentary and Ministerial Irresponsibility: Rules 58, 101, para. 2, 120 and 124 of the Constitution", Chronicles of Public Law - Publiekrechtelijke kronieken, 1997, 2 - 27). In its judgment in A. v. United Kingdom (17 December 2002, § 86), the ECHR states that such proceedings are provided for by the United Kingdom Parliament: "The Court observes that victims of defamatory statements in Parliament are not completely deprived of remedies. Where the remarks in dispute are made by the Member of their constituency, such persons may, inter alia, make a request to Parliament through another Member for withdrawal. In extreme cases, deliberately false statements can be sanctioned by Parliament as an insult to it. ... The Court considers that all these elements are relevant to the question of the proportionality of the immunity enjoyed by the Member in the present case."
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip192x.u38	Legal protection is one of the key elements of a modern and democratic rule of law. It is possible to ensure this protection without, however, removing parliamentary or ministerial irresponsibility. We therefore propose that this recommendation be included in the conclusions of the Committee of Inquiry. In doing so, the House would take an important step forward and ensure a form of legal certainty for citizens." A second motion was tabled by Mrs Meryame Kitrir and Mr Laurette Onkelinx and Mr Georges Dallemagne, Mr Patrick Dewael, Mr Peter De Roover, Mr Philippe Pivin, Mr Gilles Vanden Burre, Mr Stefaan Van Hecke and Mr Servais Verherstraeten, and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having regard to the report and the discussion of the work and recommendations of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the circumstances which led to the terrorist attacks of 22 March 2016 at Brussels National Airport and at Maalbeek Metro Station in Brussels, including the evolution and approach of the fight against radicalism and the terrorist threat; 1. takes note of the reports of the parliamentary committee of inquiry (Doc. 54-1752/006 to 010); 2. approves the recommendations of the Parliamentary Research Committee; 3. takes note in particular of the recommendation to set up a follow-up committee of the same composition to periodically evaluate the implementation of the recommendations." A second motion was tabled by Ms Meryame Kitir and Ms Laurette Onkelinx and Messrs. Georges Dallemagne, Patrick Dewael, Peter De Roover, Philippe Pivin, Gilles Vanden Burre, Stefaan Van Hecke and Servais Verherstraeten are worded as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the report and the discussion on the work and recommendations of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry to examine the circumstances that led to the terrorist attacks of 22 March 2016 at Brussels-National Airport and Maelbeek Metro Station in Brussels, including the evolution and management of the fight against radicalism and terrorist threat; 1. Takes note of the reports of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry (DOC 54 1752/006 to 010); 2. Approves the recommendations of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry; 3. Takes note, in particular, of the recommendation to establish a monitoring commission of the same composition, with a view to periodically evaluating the implementation of the recommendations." The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 26 October 2017 at 7.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 26 October 2017 at 7.15 p.m.
