ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip176x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip176x.u2	V Earrings submitted by: Proposals submitted by: - 1910: Raf Terwingen, Sonja Becq, Hendrik Bogaert, Roel Deseyn, Leen Dierick, Els Van Hoof, Stefaan Vercamer - 1914: Georges Dallemagne, Vanessa Matz 2323 Kattrin Jadin.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip176x.u3	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Mrs Özen, Mr Heer Van Hecke and Mr Brotcorne. They refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip176x.u4	Mr President, I will speak very briefly and from my bank. It's all about Potpourri V. Time goes fast and the songs follow, a bit like the Rocky movies, Minister. However, the design is not insignificant and again contains some interesting and good elements. I would like briefly to emphasise one aspect for those Members who are interested, because it may interest us all, in particular the aspect of shared professional secrecy, which is included in the government agreement and can be implemented with this draft. I know that there has been a great deal of resistance to shared professional secrecy in certain circles, including some in this hemisphere, and that is why I will make a final attempt to convince them that it is important. That is why I chose that point. Everyone knows that today, in practice, different bodies are trying to solve certain problems in the context of family violence. Several projects, such as the CO3 project, are emerging in this context. This brings together people from different sectors to find out how they can solve a particular case. However, each person is individually bound by his or her professional secrecy, which makes it difficult for him or her to consult when they meet. This is very similar to the Local Integral Safety Cells, the LIVCs, in the field of terrorism. There too, a mayor, an OCMW chairman, as well as a police officer and other bodies sit around the table to discuss a particular case or risk, each individually bound by professional secrecy. They are therefore not allowed to share certain things. In practice there is a meeting, with the appointment what happens here, stays here. What is said at the meeting does not go outside. They share their professional secrecy. But as soon as they do so, as is the case with the CO3 authorities, which have done a fantastic job in the context of intra-family violence, and as happens in other provinces, they will do something that should not be done. They work with the best intentions and with the best results, but they work in illegality in that way. If we can remedy this situation, then so must we. We must therefore provide them with a framework within which professional secrecy can be shared. Potpourri V provides for such a provision, within which the sharing of professional secrecy is possible. There were comments from the Council of State, which, however, were well received. I am particularly pleased that today I can inform all the authorities concerned that they are not only of good will, but are also working correctly within the legal framework. To this day they all went on slippery ice. If there is something that aid workers and people who want to do something for others should not be expected, it is that they are sent on slippery ice. That is what we are dealing with here today, only with this provision. Mr President, that is what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip176x.u5	While we are at the end of the fifth opus of the famous rotten pots that have followed each other, I must recognize the government's skill as it succeeds in passing an incredible number of measures, both fundamental and unjust. Measures that would each have deserved to be discussed separately but which the government preferred to drown in hundreds of articles and amendments. In this one rotten pot alone, the government attacks consumers, patients, the status of the magistrate and the weakest litigants. Before addressing some of these measures, I would like to focus on a first observation. The first rotten pot suggests that there is no logical link between the measures contained in these tote laws. There is certainly hope for savings on the backs of litigants, by removing remedies. But as many experts have said, minister, most of the measures will unfortunately only postpone spending to other jurisdictions, whether judicial or not. In reality, what emerges at the end of these five rotten pots is an attack in order and systematic against the founding principles of a democracy. As you know, Minister, this is not a surprise, as I have repeatedly pointed out in the committees, a democracy is based on the necessary control of those who have power. Mistrust must be the rule and no authority is legitimate if it does not know any counter-power. In other words, in democracy, one should never grant power to an authority because it would be virtuous in essence, because the concept of perfection is alien to the human species. All men, without exception, are bankrupt and make mistakes or even abuses. The strength of a democracy is therefore to provide mechanisms capable of anticipating these mistakes and to avoid placing people in a position to commit these mistakes and abuse the power granted to them. It is for this reason, too, that democracy compartmentalizes the roles of each and that the powers control each other. However, since the beginning of this legislature, and this is particularly true through the so-called "pot-pourri" laws, there has been a weakening of the judicial authorities. They are weakened because this government undermines their legitimacy by removing remedies, removing internal controls and controls within it. And, in the end, all these measures represent a step backwards of our democracy. As the first obvious example to illustrate my point, I shall mention, Mr Minister, the abolition of the opposition at first instance in civil matters and, beyond the fundamentally unjust and violent side of such a measure, since tomorrow citizens will be condemned to trials whose existence they simply ignore, the government sends the essence of the trial, its contradictory character, into the roses. It goes back to a medieval conception of justice, the one where the judge would, by virtue of his position of authority, have a revealed truth. And one thus gradually departs from a conception of the judge that would be legitimate because his decisions are simply just or even contradictory. Without the right of opposition, one has the right to wonder what this first instance is still for. This is unfair and this injustice is multiplied by the fact that it is tenants, people who are not familiar with the legal lexicon, who have little knowledge of French or Dutch, or simply hospitalized, who will be the first victims of this suppression of the opposition at first instance, in other words, ladies and gentlemen, of the populations who are being plunged into their state of weakness, into their precariousness. Just as revealing of this weakening of the judiciary, I would also like to mention the reform of the procedure before the Court of Cassation. Until now, the authority of the Court of Cassation had only the quality of its decisions to impose its authority. It was the only way for her to avoid criticism and, therefore, the control of the courts of appeal, a healthy and necessary control because the Court of Cassation, also composed of human beings, is by definition not infallible. It is a vision defended by its first president. But like the civilian judge of first instance, the government seems to regard the Court of Cassation as an infallible authority that does not need contradiction or control. Thus, from now on, the decisions of the Court of Cassation will bind the referring courts. So much so if this affects the dynamics of a Court of Cassation which, until then, was really anxious not to be called into question. This was only about one or two dozen cases over several decades, and it shows that this removal is more a matter of worrying ideology than of accounting and financial logic. Ladies and gentlemen, I am aware that the plenary session is not the place to repeat the careful debate that has already taken place in committee and I will not go back in detail to the choice that the government has made to facilitate, by extending the time limits for the prescription of water, energy and communication bills by five years. I felt the minister and the majority embarrassed by an indefensible choice before the consumer. So, of course, the argument of a necessary concordance between federal and regional legislation is not meaningless, but we have the right to wonder why it would be up to the federal government to adapt to the laws of the federated entities and why the federal government, recognizing in half a word the difficulties it poses with such a long statute, has not sought to agree with the Regions with the aim of adopting more supposed consumer legislation. I would remind you that the non-payment of his energy bill is often a forced choice, with mothers having to make a choice at the end of the month between an empty fridge to fill, unexpected medical care and the payment of the energy bill. If we wait four or five years before finding a solution, we will only aggravate already critical family situations. As you also know, this is only putting entire families into precariousness, a choice that I deeply regret. Nor will I go back in detail on the changes made to the Judicial Order since the reform of the judicial internship seems to be going in the right direction overall. I have already expressed my reservations about the new status of a judicial attaché and the Government's competence now to organise recruitment examinations, because these two measures are particularly worrying from a government that already refuses to fill the cadres. Another source of concern for us is the pseudo-temporary consolidation of jurisdictions. Like the Supreme Council of Justice, we are still looking for the criteria that will guarantee the temporary nature of these groupings. In view of the savings imposed on the justice system, there is a risk that these savings and temporary consolidations will become permanent, which is further removed from the citizen. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, before arriving at the big piece of Pot-Pourri V and its very essence, I must mention the strange choice of automatic promotion of the heads of bodies, since the confusion between management skills and those necessary to ensure the role of judge is already a problem in itself. Even worse are the consequences of automatic promotion. In some jurisdictions, it will simply block the way for any other magistrate who could legitimately have claimed promotion. Nor will such a choice encourage young lawyers to engage in the judiciary. This is bad, as you know, the Supreme Council of Justice has just pointed out that, unfortunately, there are fewer and fewer candidates in the competition for access to the judiciary. Colleagues, after saying all this about Pot-pourri V, we still have to mention these three small articles inserted at the very end of the project, by which the majority MR/N-VA decided to unilaterally infringe on a right that is truly fundamental: access to care protected by professional secrecy. It is true that this point was far from unanimous. Let us first recognize the quality of the hearings on the subject. On the one hand, they have really made it possible to understand the need to protect the sharing of secrets between professionals and, on the other hand, they have mostly made it possible to highlight the violence of the government's proposal. So, yes, the majority moved its amendment text into an amendment, but our fundamental and initial remarks did not disappear or those of the Council of State, which clearly referred to them in its last opinion. Before going into the details of the text, I would like to recall why professional secrecy is crucial to preserving our freedoms. Professional secrecy is, above all, a necessary condition for ensuring access to health care, whether physical or psychological. This right to health protection is inherent in the right to lead a life in accordance with human dignity. It is contained in article 23 of our Constitution. It also guarantees the right to privacy, a protection that is all too often forgotten since it is a sine qua non for everyone to live freely without being accountable to anyone. It is a space of freedom where no authority, either moral, religious or social, can impose other rules than those imposed by law. The protection of privacy is to choose one's life freely, to allow everyone the right to decide for himself. This right is guaranteed by Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights. It is therefore essential that a person seeking help can do so without legitimate fear. This assurance is found in the law, in article 458 of the Criminal Code. This article assures the child who speaks to his mistress, to the victim of a rape who confides in a psychologist, to the patient who goes to see a doctor whom they can confide without fear. It is not the good conscience of the professional who protects the patient but the law and the professional is never the master of the secret, he is the guardian of it. He must be aware that by revealing what has been entrusted to him, he is subject to criminal sanctions. Some replied that there were already exceptions to article 458 of the Criminal Code and that adding one more would not change anything. To this, I reply that there are fundamental differences between the existing exceptions that are already provided for, such as the state of necessity, non-assistance to a person at risk, testimony in court and assistance to persons in a state of weakness, and the one proposed by the new section 458ter, since all the current exceptions require the professional to really balance his interests when preparing to break this professional secrecy. Under no circumstances, even in the course of legal testimony, shall any criminal sanction be ex officio immunized at the time of breaking the secret. Conversely, the bill gives the King's prosecutor the power to untie the professional without any necessity, without any real or serious danger being demonstrated. Therefore, the professional is no longer obliged by law to make a balance of interests, he no longer has any sanction to fear. This power entrusted to the King's attorney is presented as a guarantee against abuse but is not one! Here too – I come back to my point at the beginning – an extraordinary power is given to a person on the basis of the supposed virtues associated with his position of authority. Again, we create a power that is without control. Worse, the project places the King's attorney in a schizophrenic situation, since on the one hand, he is expected to be responsible for the investigation and prosecution of offences, which is his role in essence, and on the other hand, he is presented as the guardian of the human rights he intends to pursue. Suffice it to say that it is illusory to expect the prosecutor to forget his natural role before convoking one of these famous consultations. As Councillor Dejemeppe pointed out, the King's prosecutor is not responsible for the prevention of offences. In the end, the person who revealed the secret is completely absent from the considerations of the new section 458ter. Whether she is a victim or an alleged perpetrator, an adult or a child, no account is taken of her will. However, during the hearings, Mr Simons, of the CO2 project in Antwerp, told us clearly that the patient's agreement is systematically required before it is shared with other professionals. There is no longer a question of sharing professional secrecy for a long time for your majority, minister. Today, we wonder even if Antwerp's experience has not been used as a pretext for introducing a breach of professional secrecy in the name of "any repression". This breach has nothing to do with the victims, but it is the victims, long before the criminals, who, thanks to the confidentiality of the consultations, can find help among the health professionals. This choice, for many victims, is much less difficult than to file a complaint in a police station. Tomorrow, how many victims will no longer dare to go to a doctor or psychologist because they will know that there is a risk that their secret will be revealed to the authorities? How many victims will become more and more isolated, experienced, therefore, as a second injustice? Colleagues, for all these reasons, I have decided to put my amendment back on professional secrecy. This amendment organises the sharing of professional secrecy for the benefit of the patient and ensures that everyone's role will be respected. Colleagues, you will understand that my group and I cannot support a bill that, once again, is an infringement of the rights of litigants and a setback to our democracy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip176x.u6	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a few words about this Pot-pourri V. Yesterday, at the end of the committee, I felt a certain tension among my colleagues. It is on this point that I wanted to intervene in particular. This reflected the opposite of what we have been trying to do for many months or even a few years in the Committee on Justice, that is to say, ensuring that everyone can be heard and that the work can be as constructive as possible. The aim was to hold hearings on a bill relating to squats. After discussion, we were able to ensure that the opposition was heard in its desire to see its reflection fed – with the majority – through hearings. I have regretted this moment which does not correspond to the way we have been trying to work for some time. As part of Pot-Pourri V, we used the same method. Some regretted, from the beginning of these pots, that they grouped too much material into a single text. But the will was known. That's what the minister called the "triple jump." The intention was, once the colour had been announced, to quickly put in place strong measures to move the lines, so that the judicial machinery could turn usefully. This is what has been done, with very strong themes, strong reforms, although incorporated into very general texts. With perhaps also the difficulty for some, minister, to vote against a text as a whole despite the presence in the text of elements that they supported massively. It may seem that texts that could have been more supported have not been supported because of the need to vote on the whole text. Maybe that's the small limit of the Pot-Pourri V exercise. Now we are entering a next phase with more focused texts. The votes cast may make it possible to identify more clearly the position of each individual. You have reformed important elements of the cassation procedure. We talked about the effects of these. I would like to highlight this concrete example of our committee's ability to hear the actors. Indeed, the first president of the Court of Cassation had issued by mail the wish to be heard. We have also heard the Attorney General at the Court of Cassation in order to have two expressions. A choice has been made. We can agree with this one or not. Of course, we accept this choice, but it will deserve a quick assessment, as we have asked for for most of the provisions that were voted in the previous pots. It is the same for judicial organisation, and for judicial training in particular. We were attentive to this; we felt that, on the one hand, the status of the judicial trainee was being strengthened, but that we wanted to avoid the perverse effect of this strengthening, namely, to make it a function or a status that could persist and limit access to the judiciary. Indeed, the tasks would then be carried out by these judicial interns who would have completed their internships. An attempt has been made to find a balance, and in order to be sure that it is achieved, the situation will have to be assessed. In one, two, three or four years, we will see if the judicial internship is also attractive, and if there are as many appointments. These are not automatic, we know. The fact of doing his internship does not automatically induce the fact of becoming a magistrate, but it is an important way to gain access to the judiciary, with a very specific training, which we all, of course, want the best possible. In conclusion, Minister, I hope that we can continue to work in the same climate, in the majority and in opposition, each of us acting in the same way, ensuring that the texts are as effective and as well written as possible. It is in this sense that my group will support your Pot-Pourri V.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip176x.u7	Minister, the proposed fifth amalgamation of legislative changes includes, in addition to positive things, some less good and, in our opinion, even bad things. I'll go over them briefly. One positive aspect is that adoption rules and the problem of child abductions abroad have been laid down. In the case of child abduction abroad by one of the parents, the draft law already provides for faster cross-border procedures. We can also approve the introduction of a central inheritance register which will combine the documents, certificates and certificates of succession. It reshapes the rules around the notary. We had doubts about the reform of the declaration of rejection of estate or acceptance of property description, but in the end the new regime seems to be a good thing for the so-called small estates. One of the main points of discussion during the committee's discussions was the question of shared professional secrecy, which we learned from the hearings that it is a common practice in Wallonia. We believed that such a case-by-case consultation could certainly be useful in several cases, particularly in order to prevent terrorist offences. We have already defended this line of thinking in a previous discussion. It seems, however, that it remains an important point of contention in the sector itself. We also maintain our doubts about the articles on the judiciary, the judicial internship, mobility and the reform of the resistance. What we have not understood at all is why the majority insists on a five-year limitation period for water, gas, electricity, telecommunications and internet claims. With regard to the limitation period for consumer debts, I suspect that you have opted for an easy solution, Minister. In particular, the choice was between one and five years, and this is how you arrived at that last deadline, namely five years. We do not dispute the premise that a year is too short. However, we share the view of the Supreme Court of Justice and of Test Purchase that the five-year period is far too long. We have therefore taken on board the suggestion made by that institution and that organisation that the limitation period for such debts should be reduced to two years. After all, the chapter of the Civil Code in which that article applies lends itself perfectly to that. In addition, the limitation period for those debts is thus brought to an equal level with the limitation period for hospital debts, which in the past Renaat Landuyt took the initiative. Mr Minister, I can only repeat that the problem of debt is almost a debt industry in this context; I cannot say otherwise that it has become a very important issue in the meantime. No one will dispute that debts must be repaid, but that all sorts of actions and costs make them the tenfold of the initial debt and that the recovery of those debts is making large sums of money, even without the creditor getting, as it were, a bridge too far as we are concerned. Minister, I will not fail to continue to question you about these problems. I expect you to take real action in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip176x.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Potpourri V was discussed extensively in committee. The legal text is indeed a real potpourri, because it contains all kinds of provisions and there was, moreover, little discussion in committee about the limits of majority and opposition. There was more discussion about other chapters. So we do not always get a very clear line in voting: we have to take account of all the elements of a text. In any case, this text contains a lot of novelties. I would like to list some of the points that I would like to make. The limitation period for utility invoices shall be reduced to five years. That's problematic. Despite a number of well-founded opinions, the majority did not accept the amendment to extend that deadline to two years. There are also changes to the magistrate's internship. There are changes to the arrangements for the rejection of inheritances and acceptance under privilege of property description, with a much greater role to be played by the notary. Notaries are covered by very old legislation. We have also dealt with notarial legislation, some of which have been settled by Napoleon's decree or much earlier. In addition, we have discovered that the texts that apply in our country have not even been translated into Dutch. Due to this change of law, a Dutch translation will be published here and there. This is already an advantage of this change of law. Everything was thoroughly discussed. Useful hearings were held. The second reading also showed its added value because many corrections could be made. I think that, in the event of an evaluation of the second reading, we should also read out the many texts that we have discussed in the Committee on Justice. It will then be possible to identify the positive effects of a second reading, with a minimum loss of time. In any case, the loss of time does not outweigh the quality advantage that we can achieve. As a number of other speakers have already mentioned, there is one point in this text that was very much debated. I am referring, of course, to the articles on professional secrecy. Minister, you know our position: we do not agree with the proposed changes. These changes were first introduced through the Potpourri IV. Mrs. De Wit said it reminded her of the Rocky movies. I had the impression earlier that it was about Rambo V because they wanted to drive it through Parliament very hard. Despite many opinions and amendments, the text has changed, but it still does not satisfy us. I would just like to briefly say why not. Firstly, we fully understand that the functioning of the LIVCs today may be a problem because there is no clear legal basis for exchanging information in that body. I have always been in favour of a general arrangement through Article 458a, b or whatever; rather than through legislation specifically aimed at employees of the social security institutions. I'm talking about a law that was passed a few weeks ago. Of course, the text before us is not just about the LIVCs, but is much broader. For us, that's the problem. It is particularly delicate to touch on the articles on professional secrecy. We believe that the provisions and wordings contained in this text today are too broad and lead to a potentially too broad interpretation. Secondly, I understand that there are situations where information needs to be shared, even if the law does not allow it today or too little. It would have been better to clearly distinguish everything that has to do with terrorism and radicalism from the other types of case consultation. To regulate this in one provision is not really a good thing. Thirdly, the consultations that are referred to here can take place on the initiative and with the permission of the King's Attorney. I still find that problematic. It has been arranged that this can be arranged by law, decree or decree. So we must wait until the Communities and the Regions draw up regulations on certain issues and finally allow Parliament to organise such consultations in certain situations and to share professional secrecy in the context of them. The contours of such consultations should be clear. This is not the case with the text before us. It must be clear to us that no one can be obliged to be present and share information in the framework and application of this new legislation. This can and should never be an obligation. I believe that all those invited to sit around the table should still have the freedom to judge for themselves whether or not they will share information. I think this is essential. I also think that people in the field have sufficient common sense to judge when it is really necessary to share matters. We must be careful not to put too much pressure on the participants in this consultation. The last point I would like to make on this is that these classified information may give rise to criminal prosecution. This is clearly included in the new provision. That is delicate, because the client may later, when a court case is brought, find that a number of data and information that have been disclosed in confidence have also been entered in the criminal file. This is particularly delicate and dangerous for the relationship of trust between someone seeking help and the professional who must provide this help. In the long term, this could have serious consequences. That is why we have a major problem with the text as it stands today. In committee, we voted against this title. That is why we cannot approve this text, but you may have already understood that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip176x.u9	Mr President, Minister, I do not want to come to the rostrum because I want to speak at length, as opposed to my colleagues who remain in their place and believe that they are shorter. But I don't like to speak to the minister by talking behind his back. At home, it's not done, it's not polite to talk behind someone's back. On the method, Mr. President, I have recognized your great wisdom and skill. It's one or the other, but often both go hand in hand. It is a shame, but I say it to every potpourri: we are led to discuss things with which we are totally in agreement, which we like, which we appreciate, and then we find on other pages of the document texts with which we cannot agree. And in the end, we are obliged – it is a pity for you, Minister, for your statistics, for the support that we could give to part of your policy – not to be able to be among those who would like to support it. I have a little idea why we're working this way. I suppose – but perhaps you're going to tell me that I'm doing a very bad reading – that it's a way to find, for each of the majority groups, one or the other thing in their program. This makes it easier to ensure the cohesion of the majority. Having said that, minister, if there are any interesting points, I will only stop at those who... I see that the minister sometimes agrees. I often see Mrs Onkelinx doing this in front of me, but here, from time to time, the minister also dodelin of the head and therefore acquiesce.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip176x.u10	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip176x.u11	No, no, we're gonna go back. I wasn't talking about the exercises you were able to do in the context of policies, I was just talking about the movements of the head. That said, Minister – and to avoid too long a debate, since everything has already been said or almost in committee – there are essentially four reasons why we cannot follow you in this Pot-Pourri V. The first is the abolition of the opposition. What the hell, why did you, at one point, consider, consider, dream that it was an extraordinary step forward in the field of efficient justice to suppress the opposition, when we know that statistically, the judgments rendered by default and then the object of an opposition are not very numerous? We got the numbers: maybe 10%, sometimes even 5%. This has little impact on the workload of judges. In this case, why should we touch on this essential principle, which still requires conflicting debates in our justice system, so that a decision can be made which can be better accepted by those to whom it is required because it has been the subject of a genuine debate? I am not going to repeat all the arguments I have raised in committee, but rather to insist on what the Court of Cassation was saying, which reminded us very timelyly, I find, that the judge is the protector of the person who is lacking. Well, I think that the legislator must also be the protector of this justiciable who is lacking because the defect is not only... The reading that we have of it, especially in view of the motivation behind this draft which is before us, is that the fact of failing and, then, opposition, are means of abuse, of delaying means. However, we know that this is not reality, even if we cannot deny that in some situations these reasons do exist. But that's not the point. The essence of the defect often is an absence, an incomprehension of the citation, a hospitalization, a situation of illiteracy. There are many elements that can explain why people are lacking. Today, therefore, we propose that the opposition should simply be abolished, except where the appeal is not possible, and that only those who are in this situation should be allowed to appeal, it is precisely against your will to discharge the appeal courts and to ensure that decisions are taken at first instance. The second reason why we will not be able to follow you, Minister, is that this new postponement, the sixth postponement of the entry into force of a whole series of articles concerning the legal status of the prisoner, a law which has been so much praised and which, in many respects, remains unimplemented for essentially budgetary reasons: lack of resources, lack of staff, lack of capacity to hire the people needed to provide serious supervision of those whose reintegration is to be pursued in the best possible conditions. It is essentially this path of integration which, once again, is postponed to October 1, 2019. This, while you and your majority are continuing to increase the rate of sentences and consequently increase the time in prison because the sentences are increasing and because we have also made parole more complicated. At the same time, we are faced with an overcrowded prison population for which we can only invent to reduce it. Once, it is possible to impose pre-trial detention quotas on investigating judges. Luckily, you've come back to this idea. Today, I read that we might consider extending prison leave to one week rather than 36 hours. A week in two, it would be possible to leave as part of the execution of his sentence. It seems extremely complicated and we would do better to devote our energy and the financial and human resources to creating a real path of integration rather than letting people out without accompaniment and without a concrete project. We have not been able to agree on the limitation period for the supply of energy. In general terms, in terms of energy, we do not think it is sufficiently relevant to go from two to five years, for the pretexts already mentioned by other speakers. We believe that other solutions can be found. Finally, Minister, you know that the real stumbling block of your Pot-Pourri V is the fate done once again to professional secrecy. This material is delicate. It exists in order to protect the person at some point for various reasons and to lead him or her to confide in a professional whom he or she knows he or she will retain for him or her the information he or she will collect in a singular symposium, if it can be described in this way. There is therefore no disclosure. For some time now, it has been said that professional secrecy is an obstacle to the prosecution of offences and to public safety. It must therefore be used, even if it is not completely lifted, as a valve for public action or prevention. Let us remember that professional secrecy is not, in our law, absolute. There are already sprains of professional secrecy. This has been recalled: it can be lifted when a judge so decides and when a testimony in court is considered necessary for the development of a case. We have a state of necessity. We have Article 458a which was introduced as a result of our work of the Committee of Inquiry into Sexual Abuse and which has enabled further progress to be made in situations of precariousness, particularly with regard to minors who are victims of such abuse. Today, there has been another breach, with which my group has also agreed, in the area of terrorism. This has been the subject of relatively intense debate in our country. If, at some point, we were able to agree that, in this additional hypothesis of proven or envisaged terrorism, professional secrecy could also be challenged, it now seems to us that we should not go further. We mustn't go beyond that. What you are considering today in a more general way is the limit that must not be crossed, especially since what you are proposing to us is not a sharing of professional secrecy. The sharing of professional secrecy, today, among professionals, exists. Today, what you are proposing to us is a kind of consultation with a third party which is not bound, in any case not in the same way, to professional secrecy, which is the King's prosecutor who will come, who will be able to impose this consultation, who will take the debates, who will tell under what conditions the secret could be lifted or not, who will have the hand but with what purpose? Not that which is related to the necessity and usefulness of professional secrecy but to that of being able to prosecute offences. The King's prosecutor, the police forces involved in this kind of consultation have only one objective - one can understand it -, it's their role, it's the mission they have to fulfil, it's to try to "remove" - one can almost say that - information that will be useful to them in cases under examination or investigation. I think we're overstepping the line here. Minister, in committee, you are a phlegmatic man, I managed to get you out of your gonds. I mean, I did it, I don't know if it's a win, but you got a little angry. You're a rational, phlegmatic man, but you got mad because at one point, I told you my feeling. That's the analysis I'm doing, minister, maybe it's not the one you're doing. I told you that I had the feeling that there is a desire here to respond to a demand for land. It was, moreover, at the outset the objective of a bill tabled by colleague Terwingen which I unfortunately do not see here, whose aim was to make perhaps safer in law practices which were in practice, if I am not mistaken, in the courts under the jurisdiction of Antwerp. These practices were interesting in combating the vicissitudes to which children and minors may be subjected. I told you on this occasion that the sixth reform of the State may have given the Communities, or even the Regions, the means to resolve these situations themselves by decree, if they so wish. The approaches, based on the hearings we had in the committee, were relatively different between the North and the South of the country. I didn't want to make it a community problem, which you believed and that got you out of your gonds. I said that we may, with the current developments in our federal state, have the capacity to act according to the needs or policies that we wish to pursue in our respective communities. It appears that the policies in the Wallonia-Brussels Federation are significantly different from those in the north of the country. All those involved in helping young people on the francophone side told us that accepting the text proposed today will oblige them to review the decrees that in the Wallonia-Brussels Federation organize what is a matter of professional secrecy, case consultation and sharing. That is why I found that, regardless of the more philosophical and fundamental aspects, there was an approach in this text that could have given satisfaction to those who wished to see this lifting of professional secrecy extended in accordance with the policies pursued at home. I remain convinced that this is the true ratio legis of what is proposed here. Mr. Minister, what you are proposing is in addition to being counterproductive, because the professional will always be able to hide behind his right to silence. This will create frustration for the King's prosecutors or the police who participate in these meetings and who will be confronted with professionals who have ethics that is not theirs. They may come out of these frustrated meetings because they didn't get the information they thought they could get. The other speakers will be in a difficult position, in a balance of forces that is not favourable to them. A person who is not used to being in front of a representative of the prosecutor's office or of the law enforcement agencies may be shaken or "under influence" and, in the end, we may find it difficult to assess proportionality in order to arbitrate a conflict of values between the need to protect professional secrecy and the need to disclose it for specific reasons. I think that this will undermine the work of all those who, today, because they can not hide behind professional secrecy but benefit from it, have a relationship of trust with the people who contact or consult them. Minister, these are the four reasons why the cdH group will not be able to follow you in approving this Pot-pourri V.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip176x.u12	There are no more registered speakers. Then I give the floor to the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip176x.u13	Mr President, let me first say that I no longer feel the need to propose another Potpourri VI. Just the fact that it might come to a comparison between the actor of the Rocky movies and your servant is terrifying enough not to go on with that numbering. Let me also say, Mr Brotcorne, that this was in no way the idea, in the context of pots-pumps, of exchanging gifts between the various members of the majority. In any case, as far as my CV is concerned, I still have the votes of the committee. In committee, from time to time, you have had the kindness – which I dare not call wisdom – to follow certain government texts and I humbly thank you for that. Although the discussions in the Committee on Justice are still taking place in an atmosphere of total collegiality, I am somewhat abhorred by the words'removal of democracy'. I've heard them too often. It is said that I have postponed certain provisions concerning the prisoner's position, that is correct. You had an internment law dating back to 2007. It is this government that has brought into force legislation on internment worthy of this name and worthy of our civilization. It entered into force on 1 October 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip176x.u14	Everything you could do to accommodate interned persons outside the prison system, the Internment Act, preceded this government.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip176x.u15	Of course, Mrs. Onkelinx, I have in no way questioned what you have done. The only thing that irritates me a little, I'm sorry, is that you're talking about a retreat from democracy. I was going to say that a government that does all this for internment within the framework of the potpourry laws, which places under the supervision of Parliament the supervision of the prisoners in Potpourri IV, is not quite a government that pushes back democracy. I do not accept the words "removal of democracy" and "removal of civilization". I can't let it say without reacting.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip176x.u16	Minister, I want to clarify my point because you are very strong at drowning fish. I did not talk about internment, but about the removal of the opposition, which removed a remedy for those who failed. Very often, they are justiciables who are precarious and who do not understand the legal vocabulary well.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip176x.u17	At the end of your speech, you used the terms "removal of democracy". It's okay, but I don't like that term. I can still say that, can't I? That's my right. As far as civil procedure is concerned, I understand that it is difficult to talk about procedural economy. For all those who love law, the term "economy" sounds bad. I do not believe, however, that there is a country where the amendment of the law on cassation would not be acceptable because the highest court has the right to decide as it wishes, as the Constitutional Court does at home or the Court of Justice in Luxembourg. I do not see how this procedural economy would affect anything. When the Court finds that a certain argument, even if the Court of Appeal did not respond to it, cannot have an effect on the continuation of the proceedings, it also seems to me to be a normal procedural cost-saving measure not to request that the case be referred to the Court of Appeal in question. It is procedural economy, and again, I apologize for using the word "economy". I now turn to the default in civil matters. We have amended Article 806 in the context of this Pot-Pourri V, in the sense that we were asked to do. Finally, not only the public policy, but also the arguments which can be raised ex officio, can always be invoked by the judge who must judge in relation to a defect of the defendant or the defendant. To this extent, Mr Brotcorne, I believe that we have maintained the rule that the judge is indeed the one who defends the one who is lacking. In addition, we have provided for the possibility for those who fail to prove that they are not in a position to accept the citation. He can prove this and prove force majeure or other circumstances justifying his absence at the hearing. As far as judicial officers are concerned, we are doing well, because for the time being, on both sides of the country, we have problems with some judicial trainees who are contractual and who cannot be appointed for one reason or another. This may be the lack of a vacancy, but it may also be the fact that a younger person, who entered a traineeship later on, receives the post, while the older person does not receive it. Judicial training is not a guarantee of appointment, and therefore, by the judicial attachés, who, even outside any economy, are statutory, we make a good choice which does not at all make impossible the fact that this judicial attaché is appointed later. I am very happy that in the field of inheritance law and notarial law there are a number of positive elements in the present draft. Mrs Lambrecht, as regards the limitation period, I do not know whether you were already a member of the committee at the time, because we have discussed this draft for quite a long time. In fact, Mr Van Hecke, I am totally in favour of second reading, but if you see the time we have spent on Potpourri V, then you cannot speak of haste, not even as regards professional secrecy. However, as far as the limitation period is concerned, I was first of all of your opinion that two years were better. At that time, I had the matter fully investigated by my administration and found that it would probably be a worse matter in terms of the debtor's interests to take two years instead of five years, not only for legal reasons, which has been explained in detail with notes in Parliament, but also because of the fact that friendly arrangements and payment plans would become much more difficult. This means that a much faster collection would be made and therefore the cost of forced recovery would be incurred. For that reason, as far as federal law is concerned, we call that a new process economy, and I am not shy of that word, because I was of your opinion for a long time. As far as professional secrecy is concerned, I admit, ladies and gentlemen, that this is a difficult problem. This is a fundamental issue to which I believe we have, in the end, paid more than the necessary care. First of all, Mr Brotcorne, when I show you that I'm angry, it usually means that I have a lot of respect for you. Secondly, with regard to the Community question that you have raised, I have a letter from Mr Page, accompanied by a note by Professor Behrendt, which raises this problem of secrecy. And even if I use words badly, I'll talk about the shared secret about terrorism. I think he's talking about another community in our country and that seems relevant to me. I think that the French Community will one day not necessarily be unhappy because we have introduced Article 458ter. It is clear that it can only be used for a certain purpose, limited by the legislator: physical or psychological integrity or terrorism. I believe that these two purposes limit the prerogatives of the substantive judge who will ultimately judge the case and who may or may not use this secret communicated in consultation, for example under the supervision of the Public Prosecutor's Office. I also believe that this aim also limits the abuse that justice or some of its members could make of this provision that we have just created. Moreover, I do not think there is a duty to speak, as you rightly pointed out. I think that Mr Van Hecke also underlined this: there is no obligation to speak, there is a right to speak. And those who emphasize ethics can at the same time talk about orders that will be of advice in delicate cases that put the professional before the choice between the right to remain silent and the right to speak. Therefore, the professional will not be obliged to disclose any secrets that he has acquired by virtue of his position. But I believe that this is important, for security, in the context of domestic violence. We have shown that this is not only a question of terror or a question of security in the sense that this term is generally understood. On the one hand, we have a problem of extreme violence, terrorism, where we, with the LIVCs to which Mrs De Wit referred, need to be able to communicate in confidence between professionals. On the other hand, we have a problem of a very personal nature, the intra-family violence, where criminal law has long been at its limits. For example, the expulsion, a sanction approved during the previous legislature, appears not to be effective at all in restoring a family that still has a certain cohesion. It is precisely the possibility that, in the context of such a case-by-case consultation, it is possible to share secrets which can prevent criminal law from really having to enter into force with regard to a partner, a father or a mother who has exceeded intra-family violence and who will do so again in the future. I realize that a lot of people have doubted this, and I understand that. However, I think it is a provision that is in line with the legal feelings of most people who think about this kind of problem. There is the right to speak and there is the right to remain silent. The secret can only be used in the context of the finality on which the consultation takes place. In that sense, therefore, I believe that this is progress. However, I would like to point out that all those who consider professional secrecy to be so fundamental are not usually in favour of increasing the penalties for professional secrecy. Violation of professional secrecy has so far been sanctioned by a maximum sentence of six months. Under this law, we extend it to three years, which indicates that the legislator, who on the one hand gives the professional the right to speak, on the other hand also says that if it is not within the scope of that finality, he must remain silent, thus increasing the penalty, without touching the source secret, something I have watched over. I believe that this is a balanced regulation and I hope that it will serve the purpose of our criminal justice. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip176x.u18	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip176x.u19	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2259/12) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2259/12) The draft law has 321 articles. The bill has 321 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip176x.u20	****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment that has been tabled, the article that has been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ******
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip176x.u21	******
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip176x.u22	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 607: Raf Terwingen, Roel Deseyn - 861: Carina Van Cauter, Luk Van Biesen. I propose that a single discussion be devoted to the two legislative proposals. I propose that you devote one discussion to these two bills.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip176x.u23	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Wouters and Mr Piedboeuf, rapporteurs, referred to the written report. Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip176x.u24	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (607/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (607/4) The title was changed by the committee to "legislative proposal to strengthen the role of the tax mediation service." The title has been amended by the Commission in "Proposal for a law strengthening the role of the tax conciliation service". The bill has 9 articles. The bill has 9 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip176x.u25	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole will take place tomorrow. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip176x.u26	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: An Capoen, Gwenaëlle Grovonius, Nele Lijnen, Benoît Piedboeuf, Els Van Hoof, Fatma Pehlivan, Georges Dallemagne, Roel Deseyn, Jean-Jacques Flahaux.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip176x.u27	The text adopted by the Committee is the basis for the discussion (Rgt 85, 4) (1110/8) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1110/8) The meeting's open. The discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip176x.u28	Mr President, I am delighted to refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip176x.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall be brief. Since some people are yawning, I'll get rid of it soon. I'd like to start with a quote from Nelson Mandela that seems appropriate to me. It is also the beginning of the resolution that I would like to propose today. It says: "Education is the most powerful weapon you have to change the world." That's right. Education creates new opportunities but also creates economic growth and reduces poverty. An important aspect that we must not lose sight of is education for girls, especially quality education. An additional effort in this area has a double effect and, as it were, pays back. First, there's the impact on the girl, later the woman, herself. This ensures that she can make her own choices and that she will marry at a later age. That means fewer child marriages. They also have fewer children and there is less maternal mortality. Girls in education are also less often victims of violence, both sexually and otherwise. A second, very important point is that education also has an impact on society as a whole. The individual impact on the girl creates a huge shift on a global scale. It reduces population growth and increases economic growth, improves climate conditions and promotes peace and democracy. In other words, it is a fundamental human right. However, we must note that, although considerable progress has been made in recent years, especially in terms of access to education, there are still major challenges in terms of quality of education. Major problems remain, especially in the Great Lakes regions, a focus area for our development cooperation. In addition, we note that since 2012, the major donors have been increasingly dropping out. We're gonna drop out, too. Although education is a focus sector for our development cooperation, we note that it is a priority sector in only four of the 14 partner countries. The number of indirect actors in education is also rather limited. We have increased our budget for the Global Partnership for Education, and we have maintained it recently, but further efforts are still needed. Hence this resolution. This resolution is also in line with the successive policy notes of Minister De Croo. Minister De Croo always defends women's rights and always pays attention to gender and girls in particular. This resolution fits in with the gender strategy of Belgian Development Cooperation and Agenda 2030. I would like to thank my fellow Members who have contributed to the drafting of this resolution, both colleagues from the opposition and those from the majority. This resolution was issued following a study trip to Cambodia. It was very useful to see on the ground how important education is and how important it is that we get those girls there from a young age. I would like to thank my fellow Members, but I fear that most of them are no longer present. In conclusion, I will repeat the call for this resolution. We call on the government, of course in consultation with the Länder, to increase the contribution to education in development cooperation, to pay due attention to girls and, above all, to the quality of education, in the negotiations with our partner countries, and especially with the new partner countries, to pay attention to education in the selection of our priority sectors, to use Belgium's weight in the Global Partnership for Education to promote education internationally and to continue to promote ambitious educational objectives in development cooperation, with a view to Agenda 2030.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip176x.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this resolution was drafted following a mission to Cambodia in 2015 organised by Plan Belgium, where this NGO carries out real qualitative work, and in which my colleague Gwenaëlle Grovonius took part. During this mission, participants were able to see the benefits of significant investments in the education sector, particularly for girls. Regrettably, inequality in many countries remains staggering. It is essential that girls have access to a real, well-organized education system from an early age so that they can be protected from a range of related issues, including forced and early marriage. More generally, education responds to many challenges in terms of personal and human development, as well as economic development. At present, the budgetary resources devoted to education by Belgium, in particular, do not meet these challenges and, in too many development cooperation partner countries, this theme is unfortunately not a priority. That is why it is important to ask the government to commit itself to a more active policy in this area, both in budgetary terms and through the adoption of concrete actions on the ground. My colleague Gwenaëlle Grovonius regretted that in committee, despite our collegiality, a number of amendments by the majority significantly reduced these budgetary ambitions. Despite this blunder, I obviously welcome the fact that Belgium has demonstrated on many occasions, and this for years, its willingness to be part of the sustainable development goals, and primarily Goals 4 and 5, which directly concern gender and sexual and reproductive rights, which are priorities for my group. I also welcome the fact that, at the level of parliamentary work, this text has shown real cooperation between the majority and the opposition. As we also had a long time ago on the text from my group on the fight against early and forced marriage in the world, particularly in the partner countries of Belgian development cooperation. These great themes, these great international struggles deserve our joint work if we are to win. The work on these objectives, in particular, as for all the SDGs, remains enormous, as the retrograde positions taken by the Trump administration in this area have shown. While women and girls have been able to benefit from progress in some areas since the adoption of the Millennium Development Goals, gender inequalities remain a continuing challenge for all regions of the world and constitute a major systematic impediment to sustainable development in many respects. It is imperative that this progress be achieved through the education of girls. I conclude by recalling that investing in gender equality and the empowerment of all women and girls is not only a human right imperative; it can become one of the most effective levers to fight poverty and thus make a vital contribution to sustainable development, both in its economic, social and environmental dimensions. My group will therefore strongly support this text and, above all, will, as it is usual, monitor our government's actions in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip176x.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I also wanted to confirm and reinforce the support that our group has for this motion for a resolution; one of our colleagues who is absent tonight, Jean-Jacques Flahaux, was able to co-sign it. This is a motion for a resolution which, in our view, is extremely important and I fully agree with Mr Crusnière's comments and with Mrs Capoen's explanations. I would like to take this opportunity to welcome the action of Minister De Croo, whose decisions were an immediate response to the decisions taken by the Trump administration. This is an extremely important fight and the fact that the Democrats in this House can come together on this text is an important element that should please us. The MR will therefore vote with enthusiasm.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip176x.u32	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed. No amendments were tabled or retabled. No amendments have been tabled or retabled. The vote on the motion for a resolution will take place later. The vote on the motion for a resolution will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip176x.u33	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Klaps, referred to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip176x.u34	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, there is indeed an important draft law before us which offers the opportunity for lasting and enhanced cooperation between universities and our federal scientific institutions (FWI). It will ensure exchange of know-how, taking into account the individuality and finality of both universities and FSIs. During the discussion in committee we made two comments. First of all, it is important that we make a good selection. There's no question about that. There must be a procedure for this. This selection can be about who one will recruit, but also about which profile one will draw up on the basis of which one will select someone. Well, in my view, the procedure for drawing up the profile is administratively difficult and very extensive. I see the Secretary of State nodding, because she knows my argument. So it's a very long procedure. There is a peer review, international experts have to comment on this and make a choice, after which they have to draw up a list of order lists from which to choose, etc. We have made this point, but I would also like to stress that we are very pleased that the Secretary of State has also made it clear in committee that after the first round which will start at the beginning of September or at least after the summer holidays, the procedure itself will be reviewed to see whether the procedure is not too difficult for the ultimate purpose of this cooperation. A second point that we have made and to which the Secretary of State has replied is the fact that we must not forget that, in addition to such cooperation between universities and the federal scientific institutions, other research is being carried out at federal level. We're thinking geography, public health, criminalism. In these areas, too, we must ensure that further research and innovation is possible. I understand from the Secretary of State that she will take further steps in this matter. We certainly want to support this draft law, because it will in any case provide additional dynamism in research, both at universities and at federal scientific institutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip176x.u35	Are there any other Members who would like to speak? I don't think so. It was actually a statement of support, Madam Secretary of State, so it doesn't really require an answer. The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip176x.u36	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2479/5) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2479/5) The title in Dutch was changed by the Committee in draft legislation establishing a programme for sustainable research cooperation between the federal scientific institutions and the universities." "Lessintitulé en néerlandais a été modifié par la commission and draft law establishing a programme for sustainable research cooperation between federal scientific institutions and universities." The draft law has 26 articles. The bill has 26 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip176x.u37	• 7 – Barbara Pas (2479/6) ****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip176x.u38	Sustained: the vote on the amendments and Rules 5 and 11. Article adopted by article: Articles 1 to 4, 6 to 10, 12 to 26.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip176x.u39	The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 29 June 2017, at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 29 June 2017 at 2.15 p.m.
