ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic680x.u1	Mr Secretary of State, I have three questions about the hotline, which has already collected around 10,000 complaints since its launch in October 2015. That is a good thing. After all, it was intended that the hotline would evolve into the contact point for citizens, contractors and social partners. When I drew up my questions, I also wrote: soon for OCMWOWS. Unless I am mistaken, you have already taken steps in that direction. That too is a good thing. However, not everyone seems to have found their way to the hotline, because many complaints still go directly to the inspection services. For example, in the period October 2015-December 2016 the Department of Supervision of the Social Laws (TSW) received 34 701 notifications. An additional problem appears to be that, at the time I submitted my questions, in February, the number of notifications barely decreased. How do you explain that so many complaints still go directly to the inspection services? Is the social fraud hotline still too little known? What steps will you take to reduce the high number of direct complaints? My supplementary question is prompted by the answer to a previous written question from me. This shows that almost 70% of complaints received are maintained at the social fraud hotline. Does the complainant always receive confirmation that his complaint was received correctly? Will the complainant also receive a notice of whether or not his complaint is declared admissible? Will the complainant be informed when an investigation is initiated? Is the applicant also contacted, if necessary, to provide additional information? Will the applicant be informed when the investigation into his or her complaint is being dealt with? Is the applicant informed of the outcome of the examination of his or her complaint? Finally, it is quite clear that the hotline is not anonymous. Anyone who wishes to lodge a complaint must state their name, national register number and e-mail address. Use of a false identity is punishable. However, the identity of the reporter of a possible infringement is always protected by law. Unless he or she gives his or her consent, the inspectors shall not disclose the identity to anyone, even before a court of law. How is the privacy of the reporter guaranteed today? Which processes or techniques are used to ensure the anonymity of the detector, in particular when the data of a notification is distributed to several inspection services after receipt? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic680x.u2	Chairperson: Vincent Van Quickenborne.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic680x.u3	Thank you, Mr Raskin, for your questions. I have a number of comments myself. It is indeed intended that the Fair Competition hotline should completely replace the direct notifications previously made to the inspection services themselves. What we see is that very often the social partners continue to prefer the personal contacts they have with certain inspection services or certain inspectors to the hotline. Of course, we continue to insist that both the social partners and individuals who want to report use the hotline for Fair Competition. This is important because in this way the information received can be properly structured. We also see that the quality of the information provided through the hotline is often better than when it goes directly through the services. The information can also be better monitored. The complaint is divided between the various inspection services according to its content. In this way, the treatment periods also become shorter. In addition, it gives us the opportunity to follow up on matters, to better dust files and add cases, so that the hotline can really come to its senses. What is happening today is that, at the request of the SIOD, the inspection services themselves refer to the hotline for Fair Competition as a unique point of contact for notifications on their contact pages. This is also done in the case of permanents or telephone contacts. There is also secure access for professional partners, who have concluded a cooperation agreement in accordance with our protocols and fair competition plans. As reported, the OCMW are also able to use them. In my view, the hotline centralises the previously fragmented influx of reports, which were sometimes of poor quality. It also streamlines them, makes them unambiguous and follows them better and more accurately. This will lead to better resolution and monitoring. We all benefit from it when as many people as possible use the hotline. Once the hotline has been used, an automatic receipt is generated. If the reporter himself is a party involved, he or she shall also receive an acknowledgement of admissibility. If this is not the case, the secret of the investigation shall apply and he or she shall not be further informed of the investigation. If a party is involved, the reporter shall also normally be informed that an investigation has been initiated on the basis of his or her notification, that the investigation has been completed and that any result of the investigation has been obtained. If someone is not a party involved, the secret of the investigation will of course again apply. The reports are already analysed and administratively enriched at the outset. This means that all the elements that are already available are added to the notification. They will then be delivered to the competent services and inspectors, who will then be able to verify what is going on. During the entire duration of the procedure, from the beginning to the end of the investigation, the applicant may also be contacted by the inspectors of the hotline or by the service and the inspectors conducting the investigation in order to provide any additional information. At the Fair Competition hotline it is not possible to make anonymous notifications. This way we avoid false reports happening and that it would become some kind of click line. For the follow-up, however, it is necessary that the contact details are provided. Once the notification has been made, a preliminary investigation is carried out, an enrichment by the SIOD and then the file is sent anonymised to the inspection services concerned. The Social Criminal Code already states that the identity of the reporter must be protected at all times. This is anonymisation which will enable us to comply with that provision in the Social Criminal Code.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic680x.u4	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your answers. I'm trying to keep it short in the reply. I believe that many people agree that the hotline is a good thing. You've listed the benefits again. You have also indicated the pain points, if I may call them that. It's still hard to make the cover, sometimes out of habit perhaps. The figures I have quoted, and the situation I have outlined, date back to the end of February of this year, a while ago. I don't know what the situation is like today in detail. So I will not make too many comments on this. However, I think it would be useful to look at this again and perhaps take another preventive awareness campaign to convince all stakeholders to let go of the classic patterns of inspection services and to put the hotline forward again. As far as the procedure is concerned, it is perfectly understandable that only one party concerned should be informed of the admissibility of his complaint, of the start-up and, where appropriate, of the status of the complaint, in other words whether or not the file has been finalised. I understand, however, that unless I have misunderstood you, anyone who lodges a complaint should receive a receipt of it. When I am told that they have never heard of it again, then that is rather the exception which confirms the rule.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic680x.u5	They're receiving a call. If, of course, one is not a party involved, there will be no further information on the state of the investigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic680x.u6	It is therefore merely the notification of receipt of the complaint. Finally, as regards the anonymous nature, I note that the system anonymizes the data of the person lodging the complaint in one hundred percent of the cases before the relevant document reaches the social inspectors.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic680x.u7	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, the program law of 10 August 2015, passed by the majority, restored unannounced visits to the home of job seekers. This is a 20-year-old step backwards in our legislation. On several occasions, in your general policy note, you stated that these home visits were an exceptional procedure for the government. I try, over time, to see what the outcome of this government policy is. Your predecessor had provided me with the figures for September to December 2015, the first quarter of this measure. I would like some information on the figures for 2016. Mr Secretary of State, for the calendar year 2016, quarterly, how many home visits without prior warning were carried out by the inspection services? In how many cases did the insured persons object to an unexpected visit to their home? How many home visits have resulted in fraud? In 2015, I did not get a precise answer from your predecessor to this question. As the year 2016 is over, I imagine the data is available. A final question relates to sanctions: what is the amount actually recovered? But this only comes in a second phase, since this point is not included in the text of the question that has been transmitted to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic680x.u8	Mr President, Mr Delizée, in 2016, the ONEM made 341 home visits without prior warning: 49 in the first quarter, 79 in the second quarter, 83 in the third quarter and 130 in the fourth quarter. The occupant refused access in four cases. The ONEM found fraud in 105 cases: 17 in the first quarter, 19 in the second quarter, 30 in the third quarter and 39 in the fourth quarter. These figures show, on the one hand, that a witch hunt was not carried out and, on the other hand, that controls were targeted. Indeed, by following this approach, home fraud was found in one third of cases. These controls therefore really help us to fight home fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic680x.u9	Mr Secretary of State, thank you. I will allow myself to ask for the text because it includes a lot of figures. We do have a year of hindsight. I note the number of visits and the number of cases recorded. Of course, if you put them in proportion to the number of people to be controlled, the percentage is very small. It must also be said that before this law, there was already a check of the home. As proof, I would like to hear from your predecessor who told me in 2014 that home control had brought back a sum of 37 million euros for 2014. It was the old system. In 2015, we were just under 30 million. The idea is not to advocate a lack of control or to leave situations that are not accurate. In substance, we have had lengthy debates about the opportunity to return to home visits. What I note is that the number of cases is quite derisory in relation to all the jobseekers concerned. Next time, I will also ask you how much these 105 sanctions represent and what proportion is actually recovered, to bring that back to its fair proportion.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic680x.u10	Secretary of State, this is the law we passed a little over a year ago, on 13 May 2016, concerning data mining and data matching, i.e. profiling the energy consumption data of all our citizens. Here too, we held debates and held hearings in committee. As far as we are concerned, we have asked ourselves a lot of questions about the effectiveness of this law and the respect for fundamental rights. We weren't the only ones. In parliament and in the academic world, many people have found this measure disproportionate, unfeasible, ineffective and unfair. We are not going to repeat the debate now, but we believe that at no time has the government been able to demonstrate how this project was necessary and proportionate in order to achieve the objective of combating social fraud, or how the previous pull system was not sufficiently effective or efficient, or why it should be replaced by a so-called "extreme" system (expression of the Council of State in its opinion), which is more infringing on the right to privacy. We have found this unrealistic because it involves defining a standard of energy consumption or water consumption - also intended - abnormal. We find it very difficult to define a reliable standard of consumption. In the course of the debate, we have shown many examples of the situations of water consumption, heating and electricity which proved this. Another important element is that in order to implement this law, many distributors of water, gas and electricity must be involved. I had identified about 80 of them in all three sectors in order to ensure equal treatment. It would not be normal for the citizen of a municipality X to have a distributor who collaborates on this project, whereas this is not the case in the neighbouring municipality. I imagine that all of these 80 actors will be contacted to ensure equal treatment. The debate also showed that this mechanism would generate costs. ORES told us that manual work would be necessary and that it would have a cost that would be passed on to the citizen. We were also told that a test phase, a pilot project, would be in place. A year later, here are my questions. What's the status of this test phase? Is it limited to the unemployment sector or does it also concern other sectors of social security? If so, which ones? Do you confirm to me that all water, gas and electricity distribution companies and system managers and regulators have been contacted? Do they all participate in the project? Do they have official household compositions? How have the average consumption standards based on household composition been set by the Management Committee of the Banque Carrefour de la Sécurité Sociale? A year later, is this work finally done? Have the collected data already been used as an additional indication to determine whether a recipient uses a fictitious address? That was the idea of the promoters of the law. This should provide additional guidance for further investigative actions. Has that been the case? If so, in how many cases, or in what proportion? What kind of investigation have been carried out? Are these home visits or other complementary investigative actions? Are these investigations recorded in a record or in a report? Finally, what is the cost of the measure? At this stage, can you say that? How is it supported? Does the State have a budget to do so or is this measure passed on to our fellow citizens' bills? This is a series of questions, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic680x.u11	Mr President, my colleague, as you have indicated, the legal basis for this draft was adopted on 16 May 2016. The implementation of the project started in July 2016 with only one partner, Eandis, who delivered a first push of energy data. In the legal basis, we have also taken up a series of guarantees designed to ensure respect for the following principles: purpose, legality and proportionality, principles which are essential for the protection of privacy. You're asking me to take stock of the first results. You should be aware that the Fraud Directorate has only been in progress for six months. Therefore, the results I am going to give you are preliminary results. However, I will try to answer your questions. Today, the pilot project focuses on ONEM and INAMI. In October 2016, more than 27,000 anomalies were identified in the address data on the basis of the 2015 reference year. These data were transmitted to the inspection services of ONEM and INAMI. This is only the data relating to Eandis' customers. Meanwhile, the firm has also contacted other partners, namely RESA, Sibelga, Infrax, AquaFlanders, AquaBru, AquaWal, who will participate in this pilot project. Only ORES does not participate, especially for technical reasons, as the company still has to manipulate too much data in a non-automated way to do so. It is therefore forced to digitize. Where this is the case, it will also be able to participate. We are therefore making progress with many of the partners that will participate in this project. As you indicated, in consultation with the various stakeholders in the sector, the Banque Carrefour de la Sécurité sociale has identified sixteen household profiles to which the 80% deviation criterion must be applied. The different types have been published on the website. These are households with two, three, four, five or more persons. There is also talk of electricity or gas consumption. We have defined the requirements for this system. The number of households that do not meet the criteria does not seem to me to be an issue as it does not concern the Belgian population as a whole. What seems more important to me is the consistency with the data on allowances. After six months, we have already started 344 investigations, taking into account the priorities of the various inspection services (266 at ONEM and 78 at INAMI). Home fraud was detected and prosecuted in 27 cases. Two hundred and fifty cases have been closed and 67 investigations are still under way. The cost of this pilot project is EUR 200 000 for the installation and infrastructure of the project. My preliminary conclusions are that the data push is done very easily. The data is available and just press the button to communicate thousands of data to the Social Security Carrefour Bank, while respecting the protection of privacy. After six months of investigations, 27 fraud cases were resolved and 67 investigations are still under way. Once again, it is not a witch hunt; it is really a selection of types of fraud by the services in order to better combat them. These investigations require time and resources. This is why the results are not yet clear enough after ten months. I hope that we can continue this pilot project with our partners. The law provides for an analysis to take place in mid- or late 2018. We will have more information at that time, which will enable me to fulfil my commitment and to assess the purpose, results and proportionality of this pilot project. After about two years, we will be able to clearly determine whether this pilot project is a success or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic680x.u12	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I will read it carefully because it contains, like the previous one, many encrypted data. I feel a certain embarrassment in your explanations because if we take into account 400 or 500,000 job seekers, we are talking about 344 investigations and 27 contentious cases, i.e. an extremely small proportion. I want to say "all for this"! I didn't understand how this is a test phase. You start with some operators but not all. If we read our work correctly, the Privacy Commission had indicated that the same treatment should be applied to all citizens. So I'm a little surprised that only some operators work together and not others. This means that the same control is not exercised uniformly across the country. You talk a lot about the energy sector and not at all about the water sector. Have you abandoned the idea that the water sector is also subject to control? The problem with the water sector is that there are many more operators, including small municipal authorities. It is therefore more complicated for each operator to participate in the project. In total, the government made an announcement, but 27 cases, just about unemployment, not to mention the number of INAMI files, are totally derisory. We will continue to analyse the results. As you said, it will have to be seen if it makes sense to keep this heavy machine for such a derisory result.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic680x.u13	Mr Delizée, I want to clarify things. Nevertheless, efforts have been made to reach agreements with all partners. RESA, Sibelga and Infrax are already involved. AquaFlanders, AquaBru, AquaWal that bring together all the small partners in the water sector are also involved. Only ORES does not participate at the moment. Secondly, I am really surprised that, in your previous question, you make it very clear that a witch hunt cannot be opened. And now that we have a system that really helps us detect fraud in a very targeted way, you're telling me it's not enough. I hope that, at the end of 2018, we will have more information to do this type of analysis together and to determine whether the project is a success or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic680x.u14	Mr Secretary of State, as far as operators are concerned, you mention a few important operators but they do not include a series of system operators, whether in electricity or water. I therefore remain, Mr Secretary of State, on the idea that treatment is not equivalent for all citizens according to their geographical location, whether in water or energy. I also note that you have collected 20,000 data for 27 problematic cases so far. As we have said in committee, the proportion is quite derisory. I therefore remain in that position.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic680x.u15	Mr President, Secretary of State, European legislation on posting dates back to 1996. At the time, the Union looked completely different than today. There were 15 of us. Today we are twenty-eight. Given that the context has changed considerably, it is only logical that the regulatory framework should also be reviewed and, where necessary, that adjustments should be made. The revision of the rules on posting is currently on the European negotiating table. Many proposals are being discussed. One of them is the expansion of the number of sectors with an increased risk of social dumping. Today, unless there are recent developments, only the construction sector is officially classified as a risk sector. However, since the Member States have the best view of the situation on their territory, on their own labour markets, it would be an option for them to decide for themselves what the risk sectors are and what appropriate measures can be taken for those sectors. I have a specific question, Mr Secretary of State. What do you think are the risk sectors besides construction in this country? Which sectors would you officially label as risk sectors?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic680x.u16	Mr Raskin, we have already concluded an action plan on social fraud with a number of sectors today. This sectoral approach pays off to the satisfaction of the social partners and inspection services. At the moment there are six sectors with which we have concluded such an action plan for fair competition, which also indicates which sectors were our priority: construction, transport, electrical, cleaning, agriculture and horticulture and the metal sector. In addition, there has been a lot of changes since 1996, and a lot for the better. Belgium has always been a frontrunner in the fight against fraud. We have a very good data mining and data matching. We have the highest number of dossiers, over 500, in a European conciliation procedure around the A1. We also work with the different sectors to develop guidelines. We have extensive databases with Checkinatwork, Dimona and especially Limosa. We are trying to praise Limosa at European level as a system with a very low administrative burden and yet a very strong control function in the way of posting. It is important to take these elements into account, in addition to the fact that our services are internationally praised as the better, if not the best, inspection services throughout Europe. We must have an eye for this. I should also like to point out that in the field of data processing, for example in Limosa or in the transposition of the Enforcement Directive into Belgian law, a number of sectors will be able to be identified in order to make a clear division. This is an option that we want to take to ensure that we get an even better view of the way in which people are detaching towards Belgium and outside Belgium in different sectors.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic680x.u17	Thank you for your reply, Mr Secretary of State. You are indeed running action plans. These may give an indication of the risk sectors, at least those with the highest risk. You are quite right to refer to the good inspection services and the good data processing, which, however, is far too relative, given my next question about Limosa. Since the revision of the Posting of Workers rules is on the European negotiating table, it would be good to contact Mrs Thyssen, to clarify very clearly which sectors are the most at risk for this country, and to call once again for the Member States to take a leading role in it. The labour market is changing and constantly moving so that the fraud-sensitive sectors could change over time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic680x.u18	Mr President, Secretary of State, at the end of 2012, the European Court of Justice found that the Belgian Limosa obligation to notify self-employed persons constituted an obstacle to the free movement of services. The Court could not live with the fact that more information was requested from foreign self-employed service providers than from independent service providers established in Belgium. Although in 2012 the Court only ruled on the Limosa declaration for self-employed workers, then Secretary of State John Crombez decided to simplify the notification for both self-employed and employees in such a way that today it is barely more than an empty box. The potential of the Limosa declaration is being partially underused today. For example, we believe that the rules for posted workers can be tightened up. The Dimona declaration that is mandatory for Belgian employees today asks for more information than the current Limosa notification for posted workers. In the Netherlands, posted workers are already subject to stricter rules than in this country. For example, foreign employers should be able to submit a number of documents to the inspection services. These documents must also be translated into official language and accessible to the inspection services of their own. This means that foreign employers must designate a representative in the Netherlands. My questions to you, Mr Secretary of State, are as follows. What prevents our country from imposing the same requirements on posted workers via the Limosa declaration as on Belgian workers? What is stopping us from applying the Dimona declaration to posted workers and, therefore, requesting the same data for Belgian and posted workers?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic680x.u19	Mr Raskin, as you know, there is, of course, free movement of services and workers in the European Union. I have recently visited Mrs Thyssen to clarify the Belgian position and also my position, in particular that these rules need to be clarified and strengthened in a number of areas. In any case, Mrs Thyssen's proposal at European level is in the right direction. It was also discussed that this has always been the view of the European Commission that there should be no major barriers to carrying out activities in other Member States. In other words, the four fundamental freedoms that characterise the EU should not be unduly hampered. I think that we in Belgium have found that balance with Limosa. We have a good combination of a very low-threshold system with a good registration of the posting. By the way, that is a better system than that of the Dutch. People sometimes look with jealousy at what we are doing here in the field of data processing. As you also know, Limosa is under attack today for self-employed people across Europe. I'd like to keep that. I am therefore looking at how Limosa's story can also remain on the European agenda, for example in the context of a service passport. I am and will continue to be an absolute supporter of strengthening the European databases to make the exchange of social documents much easier and to make consultation and authenticity much easier to control. The EESSI system at European level is a first step, but I am in fact in favour of extending the Limosa system at European level. You should also know that many elements are mentioned in the Limosa declaration which are not included in the Dimona declaration. For example, it contains identification data, including for self-employed persons, which is not the case with Dimona. It also includes an hourly schedule in the case of the employee. It also includes the place of employment in Belgium; it is not uninteresting for combating fraud phenomena to know where that person should be. I would be careful if your proposal did not weaken the system or make it impossible at European level. After all, it is an important tool for our social inspection services to detect and tackle social fraud and social dumping in a European context.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic680x.u20	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. If there was a misunderstanding about it, it is absolutely not the intention to make the control system and the collection of data impossible, quite the contrary. However, I cannot get rid of the impression that, following the ruling of the European Court of Justice in 2012, the Limosa declaration was partly undressed. Without falling into the comparison between Dimona and Limosa, the conclusion, we believe, remains that Limosa can be more than what it is today. The link you make or the bridge you make to strengthening the European database, including the EESSI system, is indeed a question that many fellow Members of the committee are waiting for. However, that is not in your hands, it is not your responsibility. However, we cannot ignore the fact that, in some of the things we expect from Europe, it is waiting for Godot to happen. It is then good to continue to exert some pressure from the Member States.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic680x.u21	Mr Secretary of State, the chain posting of foreign workers is sometimes an underexposed problem. Article 12 of the European Social Security Regulation allows this phenomenon to be curbed, but it may not be controlled enough today. Possibly. I will find out from your answer whether it is true or not. I come to my specific questions. Do our inspection services carry out specific checks to combat the phenomenon of chain posting? If so, can you tell us how many checks are being carried out and how they are being carried out? In which sectors are these controls carried out? If not, do you intend to instruct the inspection services to carry out such checks? How do you propose to combat the phenomenon of chain posting?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic680x.u22	Thank you, Mr Raskin, for your question. The rules of social security regulation applicable to posted workers in our country are well known. They are included in several regulations and also in a number of decisions of the Administrative Commission for the Coordination of Social Security Systems. The concept of "Necklace Detachment" is a vague concept. Do you mean that successive postings of workers take place in our country? In the first instance, this is not prohibited, according to the European regulations and the decisions I have just referred to. However, account should be taken of the fact that, in the case of the same worker, the same undertaking and the same Member State, no new period of secondment is allowed than at least two months after the first posting. That's a first obstacle built into the system. Nor should a posted worker be replaced in the Member State of employment. In principle, today there is also a maximum of two years. These are, after all, a number of barriers that are built into the system. Our inspection services check whether these criteria are met. However, I must tell you that sometimes it takes very complex investigations to keep track of whether or not there is a legal chain posting. In many cases, the conditions can only be checked after searching the foreign institution of social security, which, as you know, sometimes takes up a certain period of time. I am now trying to shorten those deadlines by establishing a number of bilateral agreements between the institutions. To give you the figures, in 2016 there were 2 652 checks on the posting of employees in Belgium. In 431 files there was a problem and in 131 files a request was also made to withdraw the posting certificate, the A1 certificate. More than 1 500 workers were employed. More than one hundred cases also reported to Belgian social security. This involved more than 1,200 employees. This is still the case, and I would like to add my voice to your previous question on matters relating to the construction and transport sector. I have asked my inspection services to make maximum use of the A1 procedure, which has been established at European level, but I also called on Mrs Thyssen, at the same time as transferring more than 500 dossiers, to make this procedure really shorter and faster, so as to be able to play more quickly on the ball. In this way, we are trying to exert pressure at European level to make these procedures easier and better, something in which Mrs Thyssen was quite right. I am therefore still advocating, together with my colleague, Minister Peeters, that the mobility package, which Mrs Thyssen has put on the table at European level, should be completed with a number of aspects that can deal with the phenomenon of chain posting and enforcement more quickly. I hope that we can continue to work together in the coming weeks and months.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic680x.u23	Mr Secretary of State, I hope so with you. I take it I'm getting the numbers? Then I can take a look at them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic680x.u24	Mr Secretary of State, during the month of March and beyond, there were large-scale inspections by federal police inspectors and prosecutors, coordinated with colleagues from France, Portugal and Slovakia, at a number of transport companies. According to the media reports, the pivotal figure would be a long-standing Frenchman who had as a job to set up mailbox addresses in Slovakia and Portugal. BTB, the transport association of the ABVV, had indeed reported this before to the inspection services. Search work showed that 25 companies could be found at the same address, together with Belgian founders, parent companies and so on. Probably the media reports are just the tip of the iceberg and the system will have been even more organized. Mr Secretary of State, in the written presentation of my question, I have included a number of articles of EU regulations on the interpretation of the term "wage service" and on obligations in the case of activities in several countries. I will not give you a lecture on this, you know the articles. Ultimately, the essence of the story remains the interpretation of EU directives. It is no secret that when your predecessors and inspection staff interspersed with the competent authorities on the ground and even ministers in Slovakia, for example, they referred to a different interpretation of the legislation, in favour of their companies, which would make them earn something from those mailbox companies. What steps are you taking in connection with the recent checks and the information obtained in order to achieve, together with your fellow citizens from neighbouring countries, a more coherent European regulation that leaves less room for interpretation than that of some Eastern European countries? Do you agree that additional legislation or interpretation should be developed, for example Article 5 of Regulation 1071/2009? We have also tabled a legislative proposal on this subject. When is a ruling expected from the European Court on the social anti-abuse clause? These conclusions were already submitted at the end of 2015, but we are still waiting for them. To what extent will a legislative initiative be taken again in our Belgian legislation as a result of the implementation of a number of judgments, so that our inspection services have a legal basis for stricter and more correct action?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic680x.u25	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, in the wake of my colleague's question about the difficulty of combating social dumping in the transport sector, I would like to ask you about the reform announced by the Commission in the road transport sector. A few days ago, this reform was announced, which covers several aspects such as the definition of posted worker, the concept of cabotage and unlimited number for a period of five days, also the reinforced controls to fight against the "letter-box" companies that have just been mentioned, and the concept of the principle of equal pay for equal work. As I understand it, you have had an expression of satisfaction with these texts presented by the Commission. But what exactly is your opinion on the four points I have just mentioned, namely the concept of a driver considered to be a posted worker after three days in the territory of a Member State, the cabotage aspect referred to, the measures to combat "letter-box" companies? What will change in the control capacity of the Member States? With regard to the principle of equal pay for equal work, should we not go back to the concept of pay? In the transport sector, we know that these different themes are even more difficult to apply than in other sectors, such as construction. So how do you feel about this? Beyond that, between a Commission proposal and its outcome, there is sometimes an important period of time, sometimes a considerable development of the texts and also an impossibility of implementation. Will you defend this in the Council and do you think it has a chance of success?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic680x.u26	Thank you for your questions. I shall begin with Mr Geerts. Of course, we already have a lot of contacts with foreign partners. We also carry out joint checks regularly. When it comes purely to the regulatory framework, I myself have long indicated that I am going with partners such as France, Germany, the Netherlands and Luxembourg and that we are advocating the same thing. In fact, a few weeks ago, we published an opinion paper in a number of international newspapers, with six Western European countries, including social dumping in the transport sector. I therefore continue to defend that position at European level. We have had contact with Mrs Thyssen. I visited Mrs Bulc's cabinet a few weeks ago and I drew attention to the problems in the transport sector. Meanwhile, we have received the proposal from Bulc and Thyssen to the European Commission, with the road package. I welcome this in itself; it seems to the Commission that a number of rules need to be clarified and that a number of abuses really need to be addressed. I am thinking in particular of the approach taken by the post-bus companies, the proposal to introduce the tachograph with GPS in order to be able to follow the tacho fraud even more closely, and the interpretation of driving and rest periods that Belgium has been using for some time and which is also being taken into account at European level. These seem to me to be good proposals. It is very clear to me that the problems in the transport sector are quite well known. That is why we are trying to carry out cross-border actions with the various partners, especially in the Benelux context. I visited the field a few weeks ago, during police actions related to tachograph fraud. Yesterday, for example, we were forced to work hard enough with the judiciary, with the auditors, to go to the field and conduct this fight together. I am really in favour of the integrated approach and I am trying to apply it through my policy. Governments must cooperate with other Member States; hence, either at European level, a plea for closer cooperation, or, if this is not possible, through bilateral agreements. I understand from a very constructive consultation with the labour auditors, which took place a few weeks ago, that there is good cross-border cooperation in some areas, for example in the area of justice. For example, cooperation with Romania appears to be very good. The question is whether this can be extended to other countries. Mr Geerts, the legislation to which you refer falls within the competence of my colleague, Minister Bellot. You are referring to the conditions in Article 5. Well, these conditions are already being applied today in various social-law investigations. It is one of our levers at European level to explore how social dumping in the transport sector can be effectively tackled. You asked a question about the European Court of Justice. Of course, I do not determine the timing of the European Court. Even less than the timing of the European Commission, I determine the timing of the European Court. The Court decides its own timing. I follow the European legal order, of course. At the European Court of Justice there is, among other things, a judgment pending in connection with the anti-abuse clause. That statement was expected at the end of May, but has apparently been postponed. The opinion of the European Court is important. If the European Court of Justice makes a ruling, there is no longer, so to speak, a menu from which to choose, but then a clear route has been chosen and a clear route set out. First of all, it is my job to try to change the rules at EPSCO level between Member States and also to allow the European Court to do its job. By the way, you referred to one of the other cases and you spoke about the figure of the abuse of law. I have had that checked, but it seems that there is no clear link to what is happening in the transport sector at the moment. With regard to Mr Daerden's various questions, I would first like to say that I am pleased to note that the European Commission has made proposals. You know very well that Parliament must now express itself, because we, like the other Member States, are also asked to position ourselves. I know perfectly well that this is just the beginning of a process that will take a little time. My first reaction was positive in relation to certain elements of this reform, which is now applied at European level in the same way as in Belgium: the fight against "letter-box" companies, rest periods, for example. These are key elements to enable us to combat social dumping, which we are already applying but which will now be applied at European level with similar rules for all Member States. The time when the rules were supposed to be interpreted and when they were different is over; it is clear to me in the light of the European Commission's proposals. There will still be a need for consultation with the social partners. I saw that the reactions were somewhat mixed: on some aspects they were positive; on others they were less positive. For me, the fundamental question is whether we are really capable of developing solutions on the ground. If it's just on paper, it's no use. Solutions need to be developed on the ground. That is why I also hope that all countries will be partners in the fight against this social dumping in the transport sector, which is the most international sector, I think, in the internal market. This therefore poses specific problems, as you have indicated. However, I believe that now the various countries are realizing that it is important to act. The first proposals are in the right direction, but there is still work to be done with the different Member States, with the social partners and also with the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic680x.u27	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your reply. I fully agree that cooperation will be the path we must take. Otherwise, we're gonna be a little underweight. In view of this cooperation in the field, we should also consider, in the context of the interpretation of legislation or even legislative initiatives, the extent to which it allows for a form of coordination between countries which already want to move a step faster today. I think that will be the subject of the debate. The Commission is moving, but the whole of the Member States must be taken into account in the Commission, while a number of Member States want to demarrate. As far as my question on the European Court of Justice is concerned, I also know that you do not set that agenda. I just wanted to ask you if you have a view of the European Court. Has Belgium been contacted as a Member State?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic680x.u28	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. I would like to join you in saying that this is all going in the right direction but that it may take time because the journey will take a long time. I note that Belgium will take a position in a spirit of consultation with the actors and the social partners. I insist that this position be taken fully in this consultation and be avant-garde, at least at the forefront of the fight against social dumping in this particularly difficult sector. On the basis of the bilateral discussions and the proposals taken up by the Commission, we must be able to find solutions on the ground and see what can be drawn from them, without having the overall package right away.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic680x.u29	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, an article published in the Evening on 24 March 2017 states that because of a shortage of local labour in the IT sector and the provisions of the 2006 bilateral agreement between Belgium and India, many IT companies would favour the employment of workers with a less restrictive foreign social regime. Until then, no big news. If the newspaper's allegations are confirmed, this competition in terms of social security contributions could be likely to characterize a situation of social dumping. Mr Secretary of State, my questions are as follows. Are you aware of this particular situation with regard to the IT sector? What is the economic impact for the Belgian IT sector? Is it heavily impacted? What practical measures could be envisaged to limit social dumping? I imagine that this is also part of proposals made by the government in a broader way to combat this phenomenon.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic680x.u30	Mr. President, ma'am, thank you for your question. I refer you to the answer I gave to your colleague Mrs Kitir, who asked me about the same question. As regards India specifically, I confirm that on 3 November 2006 a social security agreement was signed with India. It entered into force in September 2009. In the IT sector, we see that many detached Indians have been granted access to our territory. However, the social inspection services have not detected any concrete cases of social dumping. I raised another aspect with Minister De Croo. It is not because we are digitalizing that we are exporting jobs. There are also skills in Belgium. We must remain vigilant about how to develop the various in-house skills. In some cases, we observe that we lack some expertise, which leads to the need for detachments. But I hope that enough Belgian computer scientists can perform these functions. In February 2017, representatives of SPF Social Security met with the relevant Indian authorities to conclude clear agreements to ensure better monitoring of the monitoring of posted workers. We are strengthening this element. The Indian authorities, on the other hand, assured that they would take even closer care to ensure the correct application of the treaty standards. For me, it is essential that we have rules and that they be applied by both parties.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic680x.u31	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I would like to refer to the subject of extending flexijobs to pensioners. I had the opportunity, a few months ago, following your announcement, to question you on the subject and to express to you not only my concern about the effects of such a measure on the youth labour market, but also the underlying idea that these flexijobs for pensioners could not be a substitute for a sufficient, decent pension and become the solution to a possible reduction in pensions. At the time, you told me: - a study would be published on the SPF Employment website and would then be sent to the social partners for comments; - that proceedings were pending before the Constitutional Court; - an evaluation of the Horeca policy would be presented in the course of March. My questions are about updating my knowledge of the topic. Have you received the answers from the social partners in relation to the study? If so, what are they? In view of these comments, is your willingness to extend flexijobs to other sectors and pensioners still on the agenda or do you expect the outcome of the appeal to the Constitutional Court before taking a decision? You also told us that flexijobs for pensioners will have to be done with accompaniment, with tags? Is your thinking now more advanced in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic680x.u32	Mr. President, Mr. Daerden, my position has not changed. I think it is necessary to open flexijobs to pensioners, especially in the Horeca sector, where there is a demand for both companies and pensioners. In February, I told you that a study had been commissioned by Minister Peeters from the social partners. It should have been finalized by 15 May, but, to my knowledge, it is not yet completed. We therefore await the response of the social partners. The Horeca sector, which has a lot of problems at the moment, needs a little more oxygen. I hope that at the supplementary Council of Ministers on the economy we will have the opportunity to discuss various proposals for Horeca, including the extension of flexijobs for pensioners and other measures. But before we do, we will have to have all the elements: the figures, the study and the opinion of the social partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic680x.u33	Thank you for these points of answer. I note that we are more or less at the same stage as last February and that your intention is always the same. I would be tempted to say that my concern is always the same. I am pleased to have the reactions of the social partners to this study, which highlights interesting things. I think she had her raison d'être. That will have to be taken into account. I would like to join you in saying that the Horeca sector deserves support. It is a sector that is experiencing difficulties that do not date from today. We must therefore try to find answers. I remain sceptical about the flexijob response and especially flexijob without beacons. This brings us back to the discussion we had at the time when you put this in place. I believe that this is an element which has been criticized, this aspect which has not been marked either individually or at the level of the employer. If this were to extend to pensioners, it is clear that this notion of beacon would be essential.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic680x.u34	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, in a recent report, the Court of Auditors is quite critical of the action plan against social fraud and social dumping. According to the Court of Auditors, the content is unclear, the plan is not sufficiently substantiated, it contains few concrete objectives and actions, its follow-up provides incomplete information and the provision of information to Parliament is not sufficiently transparent. It is also not clear how much resources are needed to implement the action plan. Moreover, due to the multitude of inspection services and the different regulations that are maintained, knowledge about fraud phenomena and related measures is too widespread. Dixit the Court of Auditors. In a response to the report, you stress that the reform of the inspection services started is already implementing a number of recommendations of the Court of Auditors. Nevertheless, you also have the ambition to improve the central management of social fraud and to further professionalise the monitoring and transparency of input and output. Firstly, may I draw your attention to the fact that you want to take further steps in the integration process of the social inspection services? Secondly, if so, when will you start the planned evaluation of the first step of the reform? And what additional steps do you intend to take if necessary? Thirdly, if not, how should your answer be understood?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic680x.u35	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, before I ask you my question, I would like to respond to an introductory element of your action plan, which has already been discussed here. In your opinion, in order to avoid fraud, social contributions should be abolished, so there would be no more problems. I would like to point out that this approach does not correspond to ours in any way because it seems to me to be caricatural and goes against all the foundations of our social solidarity. Having said that, I come to my question and to the Court of Auditors, which has expressed little confidence in your plan. You have indicated that this plan would be improved. What improvements do you intend to make and when? What means do you intend to devote to the implementation of this plan? You mentioned a protocol that would be in progress with the listeners. What about working with the Labour Auditorate? Has there been any consultation? How do you envisage things? The text provides for flash actions for employers, announced in advance, under which frauds are no longer considered as offences, but as errors that can be regularised, liability being incurred only in the event of a serious infringement. Does this measure not violate International Labour Organization Convention No. 81?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic680x.u36	Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Raskin and Mr Daerden for their questions. I welcome the Court of Auditors' report, which rightly makes comments on tackling the fight against social fraud. I've approached it positively. The report is indeed very critical. I have also indicated, however, that this is always the analysis of the government and of myself, as well as of the various departments, that many sections have already been launched as part of the reform which respond to a number of comments made by the Court of Auditors. Indeed, in the reform, SIOD will become the central control body that will have to monitor shorter processes, better identify revenues per inspection service, and that will simply have to steer the fight against fraud in the field more concretely. I would also like to emphasise two elements to which I would like to return. Firstly, the Court of Auditors does not express its opinion on the reform, although a number of Members have often suggested the opposite. So that's not right. Secondly, the reform of the inspection services also includes an evaluation at the beginning of 2018. I'm not going to deviate from that. First, I want to walk the path that I am running and do integration and reform in a good way on 1 July 2017. There's a lot of trials going on. We are now looking at the standardisation of codes and definitions, the stabilisation of processes and the traceability of yields. There has also been very close and intensive consultation over the last few months to optimise cooperation with the Justice and the police. So I really do not intend to do anything at the top of that route, which has not been agreed within the government and which would not always benefit the functioning of the services on the ground. So we really have to stick to the agreed plan, both on structural reform and on the standardisation of processes and on a number of approaches, in order to implement the strengthening. Those are my priorities now. I hope that Parliament will be able to follow my lead. After all, it is important that the improvement projects indicated by the Court of Auditors take place effectively. We have noticed, for example, that the follow-up to the action plan against social fraud should be more effective. That is why we have formulated the plan smarter and more clearly set up KPIs in order to better follow up. We have also ensured that our inspection services are exploited, because very often some proceeds and some fraud phenomena remain unnoticed. We are trying to bring this to the fore in the new plan. Today, thanks to the people and resources deployed and the existing cooperation, excellent work is being done on the ground against social dumping, fictitious statutes and benefit fraud. I repeat that, at European level, our services are regarded as a reference. In this respect, we must therefore fully respect the functioning of the services. However, we must put them on the path of further modernisation. With regard to Mr Daerden's questions, as I indicated, the action plan has already been drawn up and includes more KPI (Key Performance Indicator). A fairly successful meeting was held with the work auditors. In my view, they hold a key position in the implementation of this action plan against social fraud and social dumping. In the context of individual actions, such as the Federal Pension Service, we are in the process of preparing more stringent regulations for the frauds found. To this end, my colleague Bacquelaine and I are working together. Likewise, we will expand the possibilities of posthumous recovery. Initiatives are therefore being taken. It is important to stress that this reform has several aspects that must be maintained together. My priority, given the note by the Court of Auditors, is to identify the measures that are already being taken and those that we need to strengthen. Many provisions are already on the way, because we had anticipated the Court of Auditors' comments. Another key element is that the action plan was formulated in April, the same year it needs to be further developed. Because it's a little weird, we're in the process of reforming the procedure. In this way, we will be able to take back input from the various departments – the auditorate, justice and police – in this action plan, which will have to be the result of a genuine consultation and which we will present before the end of the year. That seems more logical to me than the current situation. In this way, collaboration will be made closer and the objectives strengthened. Your last question is about "flash" social controls. These are preventive in nature. Therefore, it is recommended that social inspectors use their information and advisory powers. If a case of fraud is detected, nothing prevents a report from being drawn up or other measures taken. It is therefore clear that the discretion of the social inspector, as defined by article 28 of the Social Penal Code and article 17 (2) of the ILO Convention, is not undermined. Indeed, the article in question provides that a social inspector, in the event of an offence, may provide information and advice on the most effective means of complying with the regulations, give warnings, assign time limits for the offender to settle and draw up minutes. In other words, inspectors have full freedom to act, but within the framework of the ILO Convention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic680x.u37	Mr Secretary of State, it is a good thing that you accept the comments of the Court of Auditors. We must not only take note of this; it must also encourage us to do even better. You are also right to say that it is not right that nothing should have happened. Several steps have already been taken and we have always supported them. So it is certainly not bad, that is not the reason for this question. Whether there's a reform of the inspection services, I'll leave that in the middle. We must follow that trail, but, as you say, not before the planned deadline. We have agreed very clearly that this must be done at cruising speed. The decision was taken in autumn 2016. We started in 2017. All this must be done at cruising speed, for which understanding and respect must be gained. I also hear you say that you will keep the evaluation planned for 2018 in mind. We will continue to do this together, and we will discuss it in order to examine and look at it at the right time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic680x.u38	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. I have three reactions. First of all with regard to the reform of the Inspectorate and the need to wait for the evaluation, I believe that the purpose was not to repeat the debate here. We expressed our fears at the time. We'll see what's going on with the evaluation. Secondly, as regards the opinions and reaction of the Court of Auditors, more generally, to your action plan, I welcome your intention to come back after the holidays, by the end of the year, with an updated plan that incorporates as many intentions and things as possible. I hope that this will encounter a series of criticisms from the Court of Auditors, even though I feel a little bit defiant about this and if you seem to say that they are already met before they have been expressed. That surprises me a little. We will see what the updated plan says. Finally, with regard to the last point concerning preventive checks, I can incorporate the concept of preventive checks or, in any case, preventive measures to avoid fraud. My fear is that there will be double standards. It is because, when an employer is involved, there is a form of amnesty, but there is no amnesty for other types of fraud, if any, or what is considered fraud. This really should not be the door to two completely different attitudes when it comes to social fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic680x.u39	The right of assessment of the various inspectors applies not only to enterprises but also to fraud against allowances and others. This remains the same. In all cases of fraud, there is always a possibility of assessment by the inspector. It seems essential to me to be able to appreciate the context and, on the basis of that, to decide what action should be taken to deal with this type of fraud. There is no question of amnesty. On the contrary, everyone must be in order with all the rules. For me, that's the most important thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic680x.u40	Mr Secretary of State, as has already been said, more attention is rightly paid to the degrading conditions in which workers, specifically in the transport sector, work. I spoke in writing about the reportage on VRT on May 10, in which the story of a worker who burned lightly on May 15, because his gas stove exploded. Of course, he was outside making food, and that's not allowed, but it indicates the circumstances we're talking about. Yesterday we could see on the news how some truckers are housed. Drivers testified that they actually have no choice. It has also mentioned the amounts they can earn, and I am not talking about the difference in wages for Moldovan workers and others. That is why I am addressing the debate on additional inspectors to deal with such abuses. My very specific question is easy to answer, I think. Your predecessor announced that he would recruit additional people. You spoke of 96 here. How many employees of those 96 are effectively employed today?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic680x.u41	Mr Secretary of State, in the same vein as my colleague's question, you announced the appointment of 96 additional agents. I'd like to know where you are in these recruitments. How many officers were there and how many are there today? I come back to the subject because I'm a little worried when I hear your colleague. Of course, one sector is not the other, and I certainly hope that the promise you have made will be fully fulfilled. I have the feeling that, at the level of the Special Inspectorate of Taxes, 100 additional agents are being hired, but that we are moving to a replacement concept of only 35 agents. Finally, the promise made in this announcement is not kept. I hope that, in your sector, the promise will be truly and fully fulfilled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic680x.u42	Firstly, you rightly refer to the increased controls in the transport sector. You will agree with me that after long years of a kind of tolerance policy or too little action, there is finally a sense of urgency. Both the inspection services and the labour auditors now see this as a priority. Over the past few weeks and months, there has been a very clear response to this, including to the post-bus companies. In the field we are finally getting the controls that the sector also needs. Secondly, as regards the day-to-day contracts mentioned in the Panoreportage, it appears that the control was initially agreed between the social partners. So they actually agreed on some sort of auto-regulation. Thus, it was not initially a matter of inspection. An agreement was reached between the social partners to resolve this in a different way. If such a system is to be applied, I do think it should be evaluated regularly. The Panoreportage has clearly shown that such a moment has now arrived. The social partners in the sector must therefore first examine whether the auto-control system is effective and whether other measures should be taken. Mr Geerts, I also share your opinion on Selor, which does a good job in recruiting inspectors. However, the procedures are rather lengthy and slow. This applies not only to inspection staff, but also to others. However, out of the 96 additional inspectors we would recruit, 71 are already in service today. The seven experts for the SIOD have yet to enlist. Selor started the recruitment procedure last month. The appointment of the top manager will follow shortly. At TSW/TWW there are already 17 in service, before 14 the procedure is still in progress. At the RSVZ there are 21 employees and the procedure runs for 9 employees. At the RIZIV there are 14 employees and the procedure is for one employee. At the RVA, 14 are employed and 5 additional auditors have been recruited. These figures therefore show, Mr. Daerden, that the various inspection services are being strengthened. In this way, they escape the different linear economies because, at the government level, we have decided to cut the workforce by 3%. We are clearly investing in staff but also in technology. We try to do better and more with fewer people, thanks to less difficult procedures. The reform will also help us to be as efficient as possible, not only within the various inspection services, but even in comparison with the different services in Europe. We have one of the most effective services.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic680x.u43	Mr President, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his specific reply. I just wanted to pick up the numbers, because I was a little slow to write down.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic680x.u44	Thank you for these points of answer. I, too, am interested in the written note for the exact figures. I hear that there are recruitment procedures but I also hear your willingness to do better, to be more effective – and here, of course, I join you – but with the end of the sentence "with fewer people", I hear almost one element and its opposite in the same answer. You say you hire but your will is to do better with fewer people. Fewer people for me, it's not having 96 extra agents.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic680x.u45	I have in fact expressed myself poorly; I confess. Increasing efficiency is necessary, I think. We must always try to do better with the same means or with a little more means than we're going to give.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic680x.u46	Mrs Lanjri, exceptionally I will allow you to answer your question. 17652 still to be put. Normally it's too late, you know that. I'll let it go.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic680x.u47	I made it clear that I was in the next committee meeting. Normally, they were gonna call me.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic680x.u48	They also called you effectively, but you didn't answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic680x.u49	I apologize, but I didn't get a call.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic680x.u50	No mistake with our secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic680x.u51	Mr Secretary of State, we all know that social dumping threatens employment in our country and causes a lot of unfair competition. It is often also a modern form of slavery. We could see that on television yesterday, with a report on truck drivers staying in their cars for days, at a hunger wage of 60 euros a day. It also goes far beyond the construction and transport sectors. More and more sectors are affected, such as inland waterway transport, logistics, the metal sector and the IT sector. The previous Secretary of State had already organised a number of round tables with employers and employees to reach agreements. You have taken over the commitment to continue these round tables. The result of such agreements is, of course, the implementation and follow-up of what comes out of those round tables. Mr Secretary of State, I have the following questions. How does the implementation and follow-up of the agreements resulting from the various round tables proceed? How do you evaluate the implementation of the agreements in the sectors where they have been concluded, i.e. in the construction and transport sectors? What additional measures will you take to further limit the problem of social dumping in other sectors? Two years ago, together with the majority parties, we tabled a resolution calling on the government to step up the fight against social dumping. What is the state of play on that resolution? What cases have you carried out? What are you currently doing to implement that resolution?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic680x.u52	Mrs Lanjri, the fight against social dumping is indeed an absolute priority of this government. This priority and battle are also beginning to produce more and more results. You yourself referred to the extensive controls carried out in recent weeks and months in the transport sector, in the framework of a major European judicial action, in which our services have also contributed. The controls were very specific to post-bus companies. We worked with the police to do tachograph checks. Yesterday we saw checks on driving times and rest periods. It is a good thing that, after a little tolerance policy in the last ten years, we are finally getting on the ground and taking action against it. In all the sectors with which I sit around the table, we also see an increase in employment. In construction, for example, we now see, after years of job losses, a turnaround again. Over the past year, we have received approximately 2 800 Belgian jobs. That's not very small. This suggests that the combination of the tax shift, aimed at low and middle incomes, and the simplification and easing of the labour market are beginning to have effects. The increased fight against social fraud and dumping will also help. This is encouraging, because it also encourages the social inspection services to move forward. I now come to your questions. We reviewed the action plan for fair competition in the construction and transport sector after one year, as agreed. This showed that after one year of construction more than half of the measures were implemented and more than one third in the transport sector. We will continue to make plans for the electrical sector, the cleaning sector and agriculture and horticulture. The plans for the metal sector are closed. We shall also follow up on these plans. We will monitor what actions have been carried out. In recent weeks, a number of actions have been carried out in these various plans. For example, apps "correct entrepreneur' and "correct employee' have been introduced for all sectors. These should facilitate the control of RSZ and tax debts of SMEs. We are still taking into account unpaid premiums in the countries of origin. At that time we can also check for social dumping. A very important measure is the implementation, from 1 July, of the new law on public procurement, which can prevent unauthorized low prices and gives public authorities more opportunities to prevent social dumping in public procurement. The limitation of the chain to two or three per specialisation means that more overview and control of what is happening in the construction sector can be maintained. We have also clarified a number of rules, for example in the transport sector. We saw that sometimes there were conflicting rules or interpretations between services. We have therefore worked out 30 pages of guidelines to ensure that no one can say that he does not know what to do. In my view, this is also an example of customer-oriented social checks. There are currently pilot projects in the construction sector around mandatory identification badges and in the cleaning sector we have also started a pilot project on mandatory registration and withdrawal. In the electrical sector, we will make the Dimona and Limosa data available to the sector itself so that they can carry out preventive checks. In the transport sector we will carry out additional checks on the road. They're in full swing right now. Yesterday we came on the ground for this, not with the companies, but with the truck drivers. We have also concluded bilateral agreements with France and Bulgaria on improving the exchange of information between inspection services and talks are also ongoing with Poland and Slovakia. In June, a delegation of social inspection services from eight Member States will come to Belgium to see how we are tackling social dumping. We hope to be able to obtain a number of agreements from this. As I have just said, the social inspection services have been strengthened. The controls, which we are stepping up, also produce results. There may be a small reduction in the number of controls, but people and resources are being used more efficiently. We therefore see an increased chance and an increased yield. It is important to get the impression that one can be caught on the ground. In the minds of a number of people this may change something, so that social fraud is no longer committed. As far as the resolution is concerned, most of the national points have already been implemented. A number of European points remain to be achieved, including a black list of companies in violation. We have not yet been able to publish that list. At European level, however, agreements have already been reached with Mrs Thyssen and Mrs Bulc to see how we can take a number of steps forward in the field of posting in the transport sector in order to tackle social fraud and dumping more effectively. The European mill is sometimes running slow. We certainly hope to be able to move forward in the coming weeks and months.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic680x.u53	Mr Secretary of State, I would like to thank you briefly for the answer. As far as the resolution is concerned, you say that we have not yet been able to publish the blacklist, but the formatting of the blacklist is already underway. Did I understand that so well that you're already working on it, but it hasn't appeared yet?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic680x.u54	We are now looking at how we can do that, but it is, frankly, not easy. There is a risk of placing a number of companies on the list which may not belong in it. One should always consider what the effects could be. We're still looking at that. A number of other sectors are also asking for such a list. We're looking at how we can shape that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic680x.u55	You can certainly take the example from the aviation sector, where such a list is also used. We have also indicated this in our resolution. It already exists. Let us take an example of what already exists and works well. Of course, it is not the intention to simply place any company on that list. That must be done very carefully. I hope, along with the fellow Members who tabled the resolution, that you will achieve that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-06-54-commissie-ic680x.u56	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Georges Gilkinet has converted 16704 into a written question. Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for coming.
