ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u2	The President [[in front of the standing assembly]] [[:]] Colleagues, once again the horror struck in the heart of London. Once again fanatical murderers murdered innocent citizens, who were spending a pleasant evening with family or friends in the Borough Market area. Such barbarism and the unleashing of hatred and violence against anonymous passers-by are evidence of blind fanaticism whose modus operandi is becoming increasingly unpredictable. However, we must not give in to the distress and the panic. We must do everything in our power to stand shoulder to shoulder in the fight against these fanatics, who are brutally murdering innocent people and want to create a climate of terror, and want to undermine the foundations of our democratic societies. We strongly condemn this succession of bloody attacks. The perpetrators want to destabilise the daily lives of the people and shake British society as a whole. I have sent a telegram to the United Kingdom ambassador expressing our deepest sympathy for the families of the victims and assure her of our full support in this terrible trial once again suffered by Great Britain. I now give you a reading of the telegram: "Dear Madam Ambassador, Dear Alison, Yet again, I have to send you a message like this. Yet again, I have to assure you of the unconditional support of the Belgian House of Representatives in the face of this unspeakable barbarism. Indeed, this new act of terrorism fulfills us with utter disgust, stronger than words can ever express. Still, this sort of acts may not and will not deter us from our common belief in freedom and democracy. Our thoughts go to the innocent victims and their families and to the members of your security services who did their jobs so well." Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday Tehran, the capital of Iran, was also hit by a surge of terror. Attacks in the buildings of the Iranian Parliament and near the mausoleum of the Ayatollah Khomeini have, according to the latest news, caused the death of twelve people and caused many injuries. I sent the ambassador of the Islamic Republic of Iran the following telegram: "On behalf of the Belgian House of Representatives, I wish to express our sincere condolences following the twin terrorist attacks that took place yesterday in Teheran at both the Parliament and the Mausoleum of Ayatollah Khomeini. Once again these barbaric acts, committed on two highly symbolic sites, resulted in the senseless loss of life and injury to innocent people. These attacks underline the international nature of terrorism and the need for an urgent and co-ordinated international response. The international community must spare no efforts in strengthening the fight against terrorism in all its forms. The Belgian House of Representatives extends its deep and heartfelt sympathies and condolences to the victims and their families as well as to the people and Government of Iran."
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u3	Again, once again, terrorists have hit loosely, blindly. With Manchester, London, Kabul and Tehran, these are once again dozens of human lives broken in absolute horror. A concert hall, the London Bridge, a lively neighbourhood or a parliament, it is a form of carelessness that has been attacked in London or Manchester. We will not be intimidated. We must all remain mobilized to win the fight for democracy and fundamental freedoms. Of course we are sad and angry again. We refuse to give in to fear. We will not make any concessions. We want security and freedom. On behalf of the government, I want to join Parliament in addressing our most affectionate greetings and thoughts to the victims, their loved ones and their families. I convey our condolences and support to the British Prime Minister and the Iranian authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u4	Thank you, Prime Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I very much hope that this will not be used every week. In anticipation, we will now observe silence in memory of the victims.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u5	Mr. Chair, Prime Minister, the impetuous statements made by Minister Marghem's spokesperson have been overheating government in recent days. We know that we must keep ourselves, for the climate, both within your majority and more generally, from any temptation to overheat! It's true that there was your reaction, Prime Minister. We were still waiting for what you said right here, after President Trump's announcement. It is surprising, however, that your Minister of the Environment has not heard what you yourself have said here in the Chamber: your commitment to comply with the Paris Agreement and to achieve the goal of reducing our greenhouse gases from a minimum of 35% by 2030. This could be the case if the press had only revealed that, in reality, these words were not the result of some kind of personal inspiration, which no one thinks. Why would a minister's spokesman suddenly engage in a personal statement questioning the commitments, if there was an attempt or, in any case, the beginning of a will to challenge them? Indeed, the press has suggested that, at the very least, the European institutions would have been approached, if not by the government, at least by the administration and the cabinet of the minister to initiate a review of the commitments made by Belgium. I would like to know exactly what the hidden part of these statements by Minister Marghem's spokesman was. What exactly does this correspond to? Now, if you really want to show that Belgium is going to achieve the objective and since you have reaffirmed it very firmly, can you tell us how soon the Interfederal Energy Pact will finally be put on track? Minister Marghem's role should be more active in this regard. What will also be the tax measures, since we know that there is a big tax round waiting for the government in a few days, to finally question the privileges and benefits granted to corporate cars? There are 25% of the volume of greenhouse gases that are combined by transport and especially by certain types of vehicles. It is time to show a stronger commitment to environmental taxation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u6	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as we have all understood, the United States wants to withdraw from the Paris Climate Agreement. There followed great and justified indignation, both in the interior and abroad. However, many American states, but also cities and large companies have said they will take up the gauntlet. They will continue to respect the climate objectives and take action. That's hopeful. So let us continue to work with them. The climate problem is an international one and the world does not wait for Trump. Progress to stop global warming is in full swing, just because of the economic potential of that strategy, which will not be stopped. Look, for example, at the ambitions of a country like China. The transition is an economic fact, nostalgic people may think of it. We live in Belgium, Prime Minister, we live in Europe. We too must show voluntarism for our society today, but also for the young people and our children of tomorrow. We want to leave a viable planet behind. Europe has confirmed these ambitions. We have agreed on a number of objectives together. Belgium has committed itself and the Regions have done so. Our party delivers a Minister of Energy who, with an inexhaustible energy, focuses on achieving renewable goals and making buildings energy efficient. Prime Minister, there must be no doubt that our country wants to remain at the forefront. Hence my specific question: does the federal government, despite all the statements made last week, fully support the achievement of the agreed climate objectives in the short and long term?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u7	Mr Prime Minister, when I asked you last week, together with a number of other fellow Members, whether your government in general and your Minister for Energy in particular were still in favour of the Paris agreements, you assured us that Belgium would implement the agreements more than ever. At the end, you said yourself: "Make the future great again." That would be the government slogan. You also said: "On meme faire bouger les lignes dans l.o. Prime Minister, your words were not yet cold, or your own Energy Minister once again cast some doubt on them. It would negotiate with Europe in order to reduce the objectives that we must achieve in the context of Paris. You immediately corrected that, you said immediately that this was not the government's position. In retrospect, the Minister also said that she had not said so, but that it was a communication error. Mr Prime Minister, we have some doubts about this. In the past, your Minister for Energy said in an interview in L.O.Echo that the 2020 targets are essentially about production. It has also stated that Belgium's targets are almost unfeasible, and now I do not know whether it is true to have a note circulating in the cabinet, perhaps even in the government, seriously questioning the 2030 targets, namely the 35% reduction in CO2 emissions. Mr Prime Minister, you will understand that we want clarity on this point. What does this government want? How much patience will you have with your Energy Minister? I understand that your Energy Minister has a different opinion than you do, and can you formally deny that there is a note that will indeed reduce the 2030 targets? Are there any discussions with the European Union to reduce these objectives? Prime Minister, you like super-Ministers' councils. Now, I suggest that you hold a super-Minister's Council on the climate to finally put things in order within your government.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u8	Mr President, Prime Minister, in denouncing the Paris Climate Agreement, President Trump has decided to focus on the short-term profits of a few industrialists rather than on protecting the environment. The U.S. president preferred to serve the interests of a few Republican Party donors rather than those of all U.S. citizens. President Trump preferred to choose his side, that of money without conscience, destroying the collective wealth and well-being of humanity. In the face of this obscurantistic madness of the American administration, Europe, Prime Minister, must stand firmly and Belgium must be a good student. Europe must show that combating global warming is the only option to ensure economic and social development, and Belgium must be the model. It is because the challenge is exhilarating that we must stop with defeatist discourses. According to her remarks, Mrs Marghem did not seem to have understood that. It still sees the fight against global warming as a constraint and not an opportunity to create stable, sustainable and quality jobs. On Tuesday, you reminded her to order, asking her to finally commit herself to defending a greater ambition for the climate. Prime Minister, I ask the government to take action. What are the short- and medium-term concrete measures the federal government will take for the climate? I am thinking of the SNCB budget, the Mobility budget that would allow workers to give up their company cars without losing their purchasing power. Or an energy transition to get out of nuclear power, to develop renewable energy savings. Thank you for your answers, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u9	Mr President, Prime Minister, last week I was also in this chair and we were all concerned about the possible exit of the United States from the Paris Convention on Climate Change. We were wondering what such a trip would mean for the climate and whether Belgium or possibly other countries would follow that example. To this, Prime Minister, you replied with great determination and combation - and I quote: 'The Paris Agreements are important, even fundamental to the future and very ambitious. There can be no doubt about it, our country fully supports the implementation of the future important agreements as planned." Your answer was clear and reassured me: Belgium remains in the Paris Convention on Climate Change and maintains its ambitious climate objectives. I was therefore surprised when I heard on the radio on Tuesday morning that no one less than Minister Marghem would negotiate with Europe to reduce the ambitious climate targets. That caused me a great deal of indignation and a lot of questions. Where did that point of view suddenly come from? Was that a position supported by the entire government? Was this discussed with the regional ministers? Mr. Prime Minister, you immediately reacted decisively and quickly whistled back Minister Marghem. It took her a few more hours to take back her words, or the words of her spokesperson, effectively. I have only one specific question: can you, as Prime Minister, guarantee that the ambitious climate objectives will no longer be met and can you guarantee that we will do everything we can to achieve them?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking all Members. In fact, once it is not customary: you have considerably simplified the task for me, since, for almost all of you, the answers were granted at the same time as the questions were asked. I therefore confirm what was said last week, and also by several of you. Firstly, we are fully mobilized, together with our European partners, to ensure that the Paris Agreement is implemented. Since last week, I've increased the number of meetings. I met with the Chinese Prime Minister on the margins of the European Development Days to put this high political priority. I want there to be no doubt, no ambiguity whatsoever on this first point. The second extremely important point is that, in the European context, regular consultations are aimed at implementing these agreements. Regularly, throughout the coming months and years, the ministers concerned will have to discuss the operational implementation of this agreement. We will need to look in practice at the actions taken at European and national level to translate these commitments. Everyone knows this and I confirm this: they are ambitious targets. This means that we must make enormous efforts. On the federal level, we are particularly active. Let me give you a few examples. Our ambitions in relation to the Investment Pact are great. In a few days' time, we will have the opportunity to discuss this. There are two main issues in this discussion. The first is mobility. Mobility and energy transition play a very important role in the climate issue. Furthermore, with regard to offshore wind energy, we are trying to make progress and establish the most stable framework possible to assume our role of boosting non-fossil energy. Thirdly, I share your reasoning - 2017 must be a very important year for the federal government and the states for an energy pact. The federal government will do everything it can, hopefully in good consultation with the Länder, to achieve results and make concrete decisions. In short, we are ambitious, we are coherent and we will do everything we can to achieve our objectives.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u11	Mr. President, Prime Minister, you have reiterated your conviction. It was the least that could be done to confirm the commitments made by the Belgian State in Paris. But I still have no explanation for the inspiration that has come to Mrs Marghem's spokesman. I hope that Mrs Marghem has not hidden some things from us, like Mrs Galant, and that we will not find out that she would have taken unhappy initiatives. More fundamentally, we expect the federal government to provide a catalogue of concrete measures. Will you, yes or no, adapt the tax on company vehicles and review this situation which no longer has any equivalent in Europe? It's a real scandal. There is no longer any reason for this taxation. Yes or no? That is what we must now dare to arbitrate in clarity. And to that, you don't answer. It is not enough to say that mobility is part of the agreements. We know that. These are the concrete measures that we expect, and in particular those that depend on the federal government.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u12	Mr Van Biesen, let us listen to Mr Janssens.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u13	Mr Prime Minister, thank you for your reply and congratulate you on the ambition you have expressed and continue to express. Following the meeting with President Trump, you indicated that you would defend the climate agreement and our European values without being naive. That is absolutely what we must continue to do, Prime Minister. We have a lot of challenges ahead of us and we are not alone. We have to note that we are very aware and enthusiastic about the importance and urgency of climate change. I want the federal government together with the other governments of the country to continue to fuel the enthusiasm. With the policy area of climate change, we need to focus on a society focused on sustainability, innovation and progress. I quote another president: "Make our planet great again.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u14	Mr Prime Minister, thank you for your almost identical answer to last week. It is coherent, that is correct, but I hope that the follow-up will not be coherent, Mr Jambon, because that would mean that tomorrow morning we will choke on our coffee again and that we will have to get a correction from the Prime Minister. Mr Prime Minister, I sincerely hope so. We must deliver an energy pact and a climate plan by the end of this year. We haven't seen any of that yet. Your Minister for Energy is very active when it comes to extending the lifespan of nuclear power plants. However, when it comes to reducing emissions, it is only active in one area: it ensures that there is no emissions from a sustainable climate and energy policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u15	Prime Minister, thank you once again for your enthusiasm. But, as far as I know, Mrs Marghem has not been appointed to your government as Minister of Industry for the 1950s. Instead, we need a true Minister of the Environment and Climate with both feet in the third millennium and communicative convictions for a true energy pact. Deregulation advocated in the economy does not have its place at the environmental level because the invisible hand of the markets is no greener than it is social, equal or just. While Murray Bookchin's sentence that we are condemned "to do the impossible not to have to face the unthinkable" resonates with ever more relevance, Prime Minister, we no longer have the right to procrastinate. We don't have time anymore. We no longer have any resources to waste. That's why the rumperization or the short-termism displayed will lead us into the wall.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u16	Mr Prime Minister, once again you are very clear and very combative, which pleases me and reassures me. I hope, of course, that I will not be standing here again next week. Ladies and gentlemen, last week I called here to show that we too, as a small country, can be great in our climate efforts. Greatness in climate effort is not done by negotiating to lower ambitious targets. Greatness in climate effort is achieved by grasping these ambitious climate goals, by working on the team and by working out an effective policy, in order to achieve these objectives effectively. Ladies and gentlemen, we should not be afraid of an ambitious climate policy. This also offers opportunities for our employment and our economy. Mr Prime Minister, this Tuesday, CD&V organized a study day on our energy vision entitled: "The playing time is over." During that seminar, we engaged with dozens of stakeholders from all over the energy sector. There was one clear signal from these talks: the whole energy sector is looking for clarity; the whole energy sector is looking for a clear and decisive policy. By 1 January 2018, Belgium will have to submit an energy and climate plan to Europe. Please let us seize that opportunity to show that we are serious about our climate. Prime Minister, we are counting on you to do so, and you can count on CD&V to have a strong ally in our climate effort.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u17	Prime Minister, it is June 8, the date of the Tax Justice Day, established by the Network for Tax Justice, to denounce the avoidance or escape manoeuvres that create a feeling of inequity, especially in our country. According to the figures provided, 0.01 per cent of taxpayers would evade 30 per cent of the tax owing. Hence this feeling of injustice that is spreading, including in economic circles. Thus, for SMEs, it is realized that the ISOC facial rate is fictitious and does not correspond to what is actually paid by large companies, which can use mechanisms such as notional interest or definitively taxed income. As a result, their tax contribution is reduced to the congruous portion. Prime Minister, the first question I would like to ask you is the following. Do you share this diagnosis and feeling of injustice? Similarly, do you also feel that there is an urgent need to respond to these challenges, particularly with regard to corporate tax? In addition to this, I cannot help but note a succession of missed appointments, more or less explainable as the case may be. This afternoon, for example, we had to look at a text from the Minister of Finance on the fight against tax evasion. However, his discussion was postponed. This weekend, you announced, with a great deal of communication, an exceptional Council of Ministers dealing with economic problems, including in particular tax issues. This appointment is probably postponed. This week, again, in the Finance Committee, we have called for the hearing of officials from the FPS Finances and trade union organisations to hear their findings in view of the lack of resources available to staff to combat tax fraud. This appointment has been postponed to the Greek calends. We asked the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Budget about the timing of discussions on corporate tax reform and capital gains taxation. We didn't get any answers. Finally, I would add one last consideration, Mr President, because I am worried. In the Panama Papers Special Committee, despite the efforts of its chairman, we must see a certain form of paralysis, because some of the members of your majority, Prime Minister, resort to obstructions, probably to delay or prevent the adoption of recommendations that have been on the table for a long time. Therefore, Prime Minister, I would like to ask you where you are on this tax issue. Did you make appointments? Have any meetings taken place? What's your timing? What can we expect? Will you be willing to make this matter a priority?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Dispa, I thank you for giving me the opportunity to take stock of the enormous work that this government has done in two and a half years. [[Applause]] You have not mentioned – I regret – the highly praiseworthy report of the OECD on the results achieved by tax reform in the framework of the tax shift, thanks to the measures taken in terms of competitiveness, thanks to the ambition of the reforms which now translates into perceptible results: more job creation and therefore more purchasing power, more support for work, the reduction of poverty when purchasing power is increased. We are now half this legislature. 2017 is therefore, in the eyes of the government, an important year to pursue reforms that meet our ambition: jobs, jobs, jobs; creating more jobs; releasing the initiative; ensuring greater equity, greater justice in the distribution of efforts. In this context, I confirm to you – it is my task as Prime Minister – that I will animate the technical and political preparation so that, in the coming weeks and months, we will be able, in the Councils of the thematic ministers and in the context of budgetary arbitrations (control 2017, budget 2018, budget 2019), to complete our action with packages of economic and social reforms, including in the field of taxation, including in the field of the development of economic activity. I would like to clarify and point out to you that in order to postpone meetings, invitations should have been issued, which is not the case. I will appreciate, as it is my duty, at every moment, how we are able to move towards arbitration. The summer period will certainly be essential to continue our ambition of reform. We are very committed, very mobilized, very voluntary. We feel the results. This is the demonstration that the path that is taken is the right one.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u19	Prime Minister, you always use the same words "jobs, jobs, jobs" and you use them all the way to the rope! In addition, you confirm that no meetings have been convened to date. This is not reassuring as to the progress of the discussions. Prime Minister, I ask only to believe you, but you have to go from words to deeds! Otherwise, you'd go a bit for those opera choirs that are on the stage singing "whistles, walk" but stay there! For the past two years, the cdH group has submitted to Parliament a proposal to reform corporate tax. If it does not suit you because it comes from an opposition group, I suggest that you draw on a similar proposal raised by President Emmanuel Macron during the election campaign, aimed precisely at reducing corporate taxes from a European perspective and for more tax justice. At the very least, if that is not the case, I would like you to give instructions to your majority so that the discussions in the Panama Papers Committee can resume on the substance. That would finally be a positive signal! So far, we have not seen it!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u20	Mr President, Prime Minister, the right of women to dispose of their bodies is a fundamental right. However, the number of attacks against this right is growing around the world, and unfortunately our country does not seem to be an exception. A few months ago, a text was voted by your majority in our assembly, allowing for prenatal recognition from the beginning of pregnancy. It is our responsibility to continue discussions within your government to grant status to the foetus. These are disturbing signals that can only cause us to react. A demonstration is planned this afternoon to denounce these attacks and to demand the release of the IVG from the Criminal Code. Our legislation locks women – locks us in – in a very strict carcan. Indeed, in 2017, the IVG is still an offence against family order and public morality. In particular, women must attest to their distress in order to have access to an abortion. The signal that needs to be given today to address legitimate concerns is that the IVG should be removed from the Criminal Code. Prime Minister, is your government in favour of this? Do not your positions undermine the fundamental right of women to dispose of their bodies? Indirectly, do they not impede access to abortion?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I want to do everything in my power to avoid spreading false rumours, concerns, anxieties and the idea that the 1990 abortion law could be called into question. That's the first point. Second, the government agreement states that the government will consider the issue of the stillborn child. The time has come, but this time has not yet come, since there has not yet been a point in the Council of Ministers on this subject, we will see if there are any proposals in this area. And, in any case, there is no ambiguity because this 1990 abortion law is important to us. It is within the majority and the parliament that we will have to assess each time how these important topics are advanced in terms of ethics, conscience and respect for each other. Please do not participate in disinformation campaigns that cause anxiety and anxiety! This is absolutely unsubstantiated. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u22	I should applaud you too, Prime Minister. How can you accuse me of spreading rumors? My question was very simple. I'm not saying you're going to undermine the 1990 law. I'm asking you to decriminalize the abortion. That's the opposite of what you're saying! The one who spreads rumors, false information, it's not me, it's you. And I really regret it! My question was simple. I was wondering whether or not your government was going to work on the decriminalization of the abortion. I believe that women's rights are under constant attack and it is important that we are once again the first country to make progress in this area. I really regret it! How is it possible that in 2017 one can still imagine that the IVG is an offence against the order of families and public morality? [[Rumors]] This is an unacceptable pressure on women. Thank you for reviewing your position on this matter. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u23	Mr President, Prime Minister, Kazachgate really does run out of spray holes. Now it appears that former Senate President Armand De Decker has contacted the Head of the Cabinet of the Minister of Justice, that he mixed his capacity as President of the Senate with the status of lawyer and also asked to intervene at the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office. That's punishment. That's very punishment. Even more severe is that this happened in 2011 and that we only find out today. I think you should start a thorough reflection exercise on ethics in politics and ethics in the executive. You probably read the series that appeared about two weeks ago in Le Soir about the cabinets. Le Soir writes that the phenomenon of phantom cabinettards, which actually operate on the party headquarters, still exists. This exercise is therefore very useful and urgent. When you ask questions about this, what my group did last week, you answer that there are rules and that my group is doing on permanent demagogy. Well, I'll go over some rules with you, very concretely, because the challenge is too great. First of all, is there going to be a deontological code for cabinet employees? Following the stories about the additional cabinet on Finance, this would be useful. Secondly, will there be a lobby register for members of the government, yes or no? Or will there only be a lobby register for MEPs, who in practice have nothing to say, but not for ministers, who do make decisions? Thirdly, is there going to be a hotline within the government where heads of government or other members who are faced with behaviour such as that of Mr De Decker can report this? Finally, what are you going to do with the staff who are still allocated to former ministers? That's just abuse of public money. These are sometimes people who are used for the operation of the parties. You can't explain that. At least you're going to abolish it, I hope.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u24	Mr Vuye, I am not impressed by your show. There is a clear framework. This Parliament, this assembly, has decided to look at the political renewal through a special committee. I have said a few times that the government will certainly support Parliament's efforts. We are prepared to conduct a good dialogue with Parliament and to cooperate with it. I also said that I hope it will be possible to make decisions before the summer, to give a clear signal for the future. Thirdly, there are indeed rules. Maybe I need more than two minutes to explain. There are rules for the Cabinets, rules on wages, on vehicles, also on conflicts of interest, on what to avoid in the Cabinets. There is legislation in this country, Mr Vuye, and everyone is doing their best to respect the law. It is our commitment to do everything we can to strengthen and improve the framework and to learn lessons for the future. Firstly, as far as the Research Committee is concerned, I am Prime Minister, I am not a spokesperson for a Research Committee. Secondly, legal proceedings are under way and I fully respect the separation of powers in this country. So I find your questions strange. That's why I'm saying I'm not impressed with your show today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u25	Prime Minister, I am even less impressed by your answer. Either it's permanent demagogy, or it's the show, on a day when Samusocial pushes us to the point that there's no ethics in politics. People are stealing money from the poor right now. You will now receive questions about Samusocial immediately after my question. There you will perform a show because that's where it's about the PS and you will kick it. Kazachgate, Prime Minister, that's about your party. If you are not going to accept the questions I have asked you about the government, if you are not going to do anything about the political renewal, if you are not going to work on transparency, then you should not say that Mrs Wouters is a demagogue or that I am a demagogue. A demagogue is a folk misleader. Those who do not engage in political renewal, that is the demagogue. You're the demagogue here, you're the man performing the show. Please stop that!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, may I ask you to reduce the noise level, because it is quite impressive what we achieve from the other side when we sit in the front. Let's listen to each other.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u27	Mr Prime Minister, Madam Secretary of State, the PS of the City of Brussels has captured resources to help the homeless to round off the end of the month of its members, who had already a fairly large salary. They have thus betrayed their ideals and the Samusocial workers who are poorly paid, but who are carrying out a heavy and vital task for the homeless. They have betrayed the Region, but also the federal state that subsidizes these functions. They have also, let us not forget, betrayed the Samusocial volunteers, who help the homeless day by day. In doing so, they betrayed all the Brussels and all the Belgians. But above all, and this is the worst, the City of Brussels PS carried out the red carpet at the N-VA to deploy its speech of exclusion, and to attack the missions, workers and volunteers of the Samusocial. Yes, Mrs. Demir, the homeless are sometimes undocumented, but are we going to let them die in our streets? No. Mrs Demir, Mr Michel, the excluded people in our streets today, the homeless, are the victims of your policies of exclusion. Samusocial responds to this exclusion. My question is simple: can we have the report that has been asked and that sheds light on how the leaders of Samusocial – not the workers – are paid? Can we discuss this in this Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u28	Prime Minister, governance issues at the Samusocial in Brussels are major, and the practices of the directors of this body are unjustifiable and shocking. They are all the more shocking as they take place within a structure whose aim is, first and foremost, to invest in the most disadvantaged and vulnerable people in our society. These practices are even more shocking to all staff and volunteers who, on a daily basis, invest in an incredible way with the most excluded and disadvantaged people in our society. The Brussels Region has taken a series of measures, including the dispatch of two Commissioners. It was also decided to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry. The federal government also subsidizes Samusocial in a significant way. I have here the activity report of the Samusocial. This is not just about your competence, Madam Secretary of State, since Social Integration, Public Health, the State Secretariat for Combating Poverty, the State Secretariat for Asylum and Migration, the Fedasil Agency and INAMI directly or indirectly support the Samusocial in Brussels. You announced an investigation into federal subsidies. Prime Minister, there can be no question of reserving this investigation to federal subsidies. Is the investigation going, yes or no, to concern all the subsidies of the various bodies that I have just recalled? Is this investigation already requested? Which neutral organization will it achieve? The Finance Inspectorate? Eventually the Court of Auditors, via parliament? Finally, if these are important, it is important for us, Prime Minister, here and elsewhere, to be able to ensure strict control of all the subsidies granted and of all the public funds. That's what we have to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u29	Mr President, Prime Minister, Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, I do not care about the parvenus! That's what Elio Di Rupo said in October 2005. Colleagues, we are 12 years later and in Brussels they are just moving on. Enriching himself on the roof of the homeless, that's over the shame. How dare you call yourself a socialist? Ladies and gentlemen, the conclusion is clear. The PS mayor of Brussels must honour himself. However, it is not because politicians quit that the problem has been solved, the stable needs to be completely mucked out and cleaned out. We need to check whether the money has actually been delivered to the homeless, to the people who need the money. They are in danger of being the victim of the scandal, ladies and gentlemen. The federal government also provides support. Among other things, you, Madam Secretary of State. Prime Minister, the questions are clear. What do you think of what happened in Brussels? Are you prepared to examine the matter very thoroughly so that we can have all the answers to all the questions that people are right to ask?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u30	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, all we have to do is list the elements in the dossier. On the one hand, there is a PS-politics that, despite a generous wage, manages to get into a social home and allows it to be renovated at the expense of the community. As punishment for her party, such a person may become OCMW president in Brussels and chair a non-profit association for homeless people. On the other hand, there is the mayor of Brussels who is so concerned with the poverty in his city that he pockets the gifts for this non-profit association for homeless people. If he is asked to explain that and if he has met a great deal before, he does not go much further than the answer he has sometimes answered the phone. You're gonna have to imagine this. The phone rings, the man picks up and says: "Hello, with the mayor of Brussels; Ah, Samusocial. That'll be 140 euros. Unbelievable, the shame is over! On the roof of the homeless! House Of Cards is nothing like that. Then a friendly lawyer shows up who finds it worth defending at such a time that the books of that non-profit association remain closed. The books remain closed to the people who have given a gift and the books also remain close to politics. I find that embarrassing, folks, sorry. The fact that the people concerned, uncharmed, have now left the board of directors, had to come to the fore. They must stop as politicians. They're gonna have to pay back those seat badges. The barn needs to be cleaned to the ground, because I don't think that's the last one. Prime Minister, I would also like to ask you what we will do about it from the federal level. We will not continue to deposit money annually in a non-profit association that works in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in December there was a large number of scandals in our country, particularly in Wallonia: the Publifin dossier, which you all know. It was said then that such matters can only happen in intercommunals, nowhere else. However, the Kazachgate affair shows that a lot of money can also be paid at the highest levels of the State, with Mr De Decker of the MR, which leads to scandals. At that time, it was said in Flanders that such things can only happen in Wallonia. After PubliPart, after Koen Kennis in Antwerp and after Mr Bracke, however, it turns out that a Publifin affair is also possible in Flanders. Then we heard Mr Vervoort say "This is not possible in Brussels". Now, what does it appear today? It is that there is indeed a scandal in Brussels. Belgium is currently truly a green land and that is the case for all parties. In all parts of the country, a certain elite is just putting money in their pockets instead of thinking about the community. In this case, the issue is even more serious, because Samusocial is a service that aims to help people who are excluded by this capitalism that creates a great deal of wealth and, at the same time, excludes more and more people in our society. This is all the more serious because, in such a public service, today, some representatives who declare themselves to be from the left... For me, the left is the warm left, the left of solidarity, the left "Robin des Bois" who will seek money from the rich to give them to the poorest. No, what's here? We have here a certain left elite who do the opposite of Robin Hood, who goes to get money from the poorest to put it in his pockets. That, ladies and gentlemen, is unacceptable to us! It's not the left. It is unworthy of the left and it is time to find a left who dares! A left who dares today but needs transparency. This is the debate we must have here in this House today. From the outset, we said that all private mandates should be made public, communicated to all, and expressed the amounts and remunerations associated with all these mandates. Do you remember? Two months ago, I said here, "Look, we're all in agreement with that!" For the time being, however, it appears that, in the werkgroep Politieke vernieuwing, which parties are blocking the Renouveau working group in this respect? These are traditional parties like the N-VA. They say: "No, this is voyeurism! You're blocking all this." I know very well that the Renewal Working Group will not achieve anything. That's clear. But here, the federal government subsidizes the NSAs. My question is therefore very clear. Yes or no, do you intend to ask all non-profit organizations that receive subsidies to publicly declare, for all board members, their public and private mandates and remuneration? If we do this, ladies and gentlemen, we will have full transparency and cases like Samusocial will no longer happen.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u32	Mr. President, Prime Minister, nurses, social workers, psychologists, Samusocial doctors carry out, day after day, night after night, winter after winter, essential social work with the poorest in very difficult conditions. We all know it here. Why? Because they believe it! Because that's their commitment! Fortunately, their work remains. But their cause is damaged. How huge their disappointment must be today! After Liège, after Charleroi, Brussels is now affected. In this case, every day brings its lot of dismaying revelations, even disgusting ones: total absence of ethics, opaque functioning, excessive lump sum remuneration, absence of minutes of meetings, debts of the ASBL and lack of regional control. All this on the backs of the most impoverished people! As Olivier Chastel said this morning, it is all the more shocking that this affects the social field, where the exclusivity of resources should be devoted to the poorest. Following these revelations, the federal government responded quickly, requesting an investigation into the management of this federally funded association. I welcome this rapid and unambiguous response. The investigation must be carried out impartially, thoroughly and rigorously by the Federal Audit Services and, if possible, by the Court of Auditors. The government, the parliament and all citizens of our country have the right to be informed about the legality of the use of these public funds. Moreover, it is frightening that the leaders of the Samusocial, through the voice of their counsel, a law firm well known to the political world, refuse this legitimate request, invoking the private nature of these mandates. Prime Minister, do you confirm that you have properly investigated this matter? Who will be responsible for it and according to what timetable? Like the Brussels government, have you received a letter from Uyttendaele? Have any contacts been established with other public donors to coordinate audit efforts? I am thinking here of the committee of inquiry which will soon be set up in the Brussels Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u33	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, enough is enough. There are no more excuses. All of us in this hemisphere have been elected as representatives of the people, for the benefit of general, not for our own interests. We have to work hard, but we're well compensated for that. In return, the people expect us to work for their interests here. Professionally, that's what they call it. Professional. But for some, the sky is the limit, there is no professional, there is no representation of the people. So, ladies and gentlemen, today I feel the shame of being a substitute and I also speak very clearly: shame! Shame! After Kazachgate, Publifin, Publilec, the many Flemish appointments with towering vergoedingen, there is now Samusocial. Self-enrichment with gifts from citizens, on the roof of homeless people, for meetings that never took place. And then try to sabotage the investigation! My colleagues from the PS, the Socialists who set up such a system, are of the most shameless thing that exists. Do not add the necessary consequences, that is the bankruptcy of your party. Not the question of how much time it takes before Mayeur resigns, but the fact that you need time to make that decision says everything. In addition to what has just been said, I would also like to remind you of this:il méritait que löjon söjen sépare. From the same speech 12 years ago. I'm making a suggestion. That those involved, Mr Mayeur and Mrs Peraïta, are indeed resigning. That they are going to repay those seat badges, all those gifts from many people who have their hearts in the right place. There must be total transparency in the structures in Brussels. It needs to be investigated across all parliaments, because people are rightly turning their backs on politics today. Green's already ripped a lot of lids off those jars. Arnaud Verstraete and Bart Dhondt have done their job more than well in Brussels. We will continue to do so in cases like this, because this is the only way to restore confidence in politics: to continue until all the abuses are known. At least the population can count on us.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, this week we all fell from one surprise to another when we heard what was going on at Samusocial. The directors, including the PS Mayor Mayeur and the president of the OCMW, also of the PS, paid themselves generous allowances, EUR 1 400 per month, for meetings that may never have taken place. It is therefore EUR 17 000 per year. Moreover, even if those meetings had taken place, even if they had continued, the question remains whether they should be reimbursed again and again, if they already have a good wager as politician. It is not forbidden, ladies and gentlemen, to commit unselfishly to this society or to include a mandate in an organisation. I do so myself, as perhaps many people in this Chamber and beyond, not to mention the 1.8 million volunteers that count in our country. They commit themselves every day, day in and day out, without getting a euro for it. For all those volunteers, this is really a jaw blow. A social organisation such as Samusocial serves to accommodate homeless and homeless, not to ensure that drivers can enrich themselves. It is therefore a real shame that people have enriched themselves at the expense of the homeless and homeless, the weakest group in society. Prime Minister, the federal government has been giving extra subsidies for many years to provide additional winter shelter, amounting to EUR 1.4 million a year. Will you investigate the abuses to the bone? Will you also take the necessary measures and impose sanctions? Most of the companies that gave gifts now turn out to be companies with whom the city of Brussels has a contract. Is that a coincidence, Prime Minister, or was those companies asked to be so kind as to make a donation when a contract was given? I hope that will also be investigated. Finally, we want these allowances to be recovered so that they can be spent for which people have given the gifts, in particular for the shelter of homeless people. This is not an unnecessary luxury in a city like Brussels where the number of homeless people increases year after year. Since 2010, 30% of homeless people have been added and year after year more people die on the streets because of homelessness, last year we counted 72 deaths. I hope these drivers don't have those people's deaths on their consciences.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address my first words to the field workers, to the thousands of women and men who, every day, mobilize with passion and commitment in the service of the most vulnerable and the poorest. As some have said this afternoon, I am measuring with you the punch in the received figure by taking note of this information. I also want to point out to you that of course... The federal government will do everything it can to get transparency. The Secretary of State immediately made the necessary decisions. We have requested an investigation from the Treasury Inspectorate. Mrs Fonck, I intend to extend the research to all the departments concerned at the Council of Ministers on Friday. Every euro devoted to the fight against poverty must go to poverty and nothing else. The position must be very clear. [[Applause]] Finally, I would like to remove a misunderstanding or ambiguity that some want to maintain. When a structure, be it an ASBL, an intercommunal, a cooperative society – no matter what the legal form – is financed massively by public money, there is no doubt, there is no room for opacity, transparency must be total. There is no law to write about it. It is a reality that must be applied and respected. That is the least respect we owe to our fellow citizens. Indeed, today I am sad, sad for democracy, for confidence in the democratic institutions. I know that, also in our assembly, on all banks, many members of the political parties do everything with passion and conviction, but I also note that the attitude and choice of some are an incredible tragedy for the credibility of democratic institutions. It is our responsibility, as members of this Assembly, to show the way, the example and to make all the transparency on remuneration in an absolute way. It is our responsibility to make all the clarity on conflicts of interest. It is our responsibility, too, to allow more clarity on the number of mandates because – as I have already said, I think – there are too many public and para-public mandates. We will also have to put it in order.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u36	Mr President, following on from what the Prime Minister has said, I would like to address a number of issues quite punctually. On the subject of winter care, I understand the misunderstanding of all my fellow Members who have asked the question today. I share that misunderstanding. I too am shocked, as a man, as a politician, but certainly also as a secretary of state responsible for winter care. The need for transparency is only natural. The Prime Minister has said it, transparency will come in Parliament. For winter care, a budget of between 1 and 1.4 million euros has been transferred to Samusocial in recent years with the demand to provide certain services. What is happening at the top of Samusocial is not only a knife in the back of the homeless, but also a knife in the back of the social assistants, the volunteers who have taken care of the homeless day in a day. We have signed a cooperation agreement with Samusocial. We have asked for 300 homeless people to be taken care of in Brussels during the winter. Nightcare means a bed, shower, breakfast. I think we've been asking for human things. I have so far transferred EUR 750 000 of the tax money. I'll get another final bill and a final report from Samusocial. Then I will also check line by line whether the taxpayers' money actually went to the homeless. We'll look into that. Yesterday, I asked the Treasury Inspectorate to investigate a number of cases. Were the federal subsidies used, in accordance with the mandate set out in the ministerial decisions? Were the federal subsidies used to pay the only compensation, of whatever kind, to the directors? Does the association Samusocial provide original accountability to the public administration Social Integration, so that it can be assumed that double funding is excluded? Were the data of the persons for whom reception was provided properly registered, as requested by us in the ministerial decisions? Were the federal subsidies also used to help the homeless? Were the federal subsidies used for the nightcare periods, as agreed? For the foreseeable future, I can assure you that we will not abandon the homeless in Brussels. I am currently having conversations and will also have a conversation with the Brussels-Capital Region to see how we can take care of the homeless in the coming winter. Regardless of the circus we've been through over the last few days, the federal government will ensure shelter for the homeless. In the coming days and weeks, I will see how we will do that, but we will do it. And for the winter shelter in the future I keep all options open. Regarding Samusocial's possible role in winter care, I can tell you that the non-profit association currently needs an external review rather than an expensive lawyer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u37	Mr President, Prime Minister, I would first like to welcome the work carried out over two years by my colleague Ecolo Brusselsois, Alain Maron, who tried to obtain the transparency that we finally have after a long and difficult job - but it was worth it. From now on, citizens are aware of what has happened. We were able to hear you, Prime Minister, reminding us of the need for transparency and a reduction in the number of public mandates. I hope that some colleagues who are slightly deaf in a certain committee have heard it as well. To my Socialist colleagues, I say that it is not enough to change men and women. It will be important to change practices in depth. And this change, Mr Calomne, the MR of the City of Brussels can do it because it is the majority. To my other colleagues, I would point out that we, the environmentalists – in the City of Brussels, in the Brussels Parliament, of course in the Walloon Parliament, but also in this House – will fight to change these practices. We will fight with the same force against the policies of social exclusion and fiscal inequity, which are those of this government and which throw people on the street, so that many end up sleeping under the bridges. These people, Samusocial needs to take care of it. And one day, I wish that in this country we no longer needed Samusocial!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u38	Prime Minister, thank you for your different answers. You confirm to us that a wide-ranging investigation will be carried out into all the bodies that subsidize the Samusocial. That's a good thing. Prime Minister, like you, I am sad for democracy. But even more so, I am ashamed of certain political practices. It is also against this that we must mobilize. This fight must be waged at all levels of power, by all those who want transparency and good management. This implies a profound transformation of political culture. Some escape. In the face of these shocking practices, which are denounced on all sides, everyone must draw the consequences, starting with the first concerned. Prime Minister, I urge you and your entire government not to put everyone in the same bag. There can be no question of challenging the quality work done by Samusocial staff and volunteers, nor of stopping supporting this mission, which is vital for the most vulnerable.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u39	Mr President, Prime Minister, Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. Absolute transparency is the least we are asking for. I would like to dwell on the Prime Minister's reply in which he says that it is our democratic duty as a representative of the people to behave properly. Ladies and gentlemen, we in this House, in the many committees, can approve hundreds of thousands of rules that we must abide by, but far more important than those rules is the decency of a politician. Well, this decency is far exceeded in what has happened. I want to reach out to the Parti Socialist. You have heard all my fellow Members with the plea to put an end to this. Make use of that, fellow Members. We need politicians with decency in this country. We're on it!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u40	Mr President, Prime Minister, Mrs Onkelinx, I hope that you will finally clean up your party. After all, this is not the first and I do not think it will be the last. Speaking of tables, I hope that last night at the kitchen table it at least stove a little, because that too is scandalous. If I see you or one of your fellow Members standing here with a moral finger on the whole group in the next few weeks, forgive me if I start to laugh.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u41	Prime Minister, you said that there is no need for a law to ensure transparency. Mr Van Quickenborne said that we should be able to communicate about this ethically. That is what this is about, ladies and gentlemen. If something has been shown, it is that the control of politics over itself does not work. That's the problem since the beginning of Publifin, Koen Kennis of the N-VA, Publipart. That's what it's about. So, yes, we need rules. That's what the debate is about. Let us simply adopt the rule that all public officials should disclose where they exercise a mandate and how much they deserve. In that case we could have read via computer: Yvan Mayeur, mayor, 120 000 euros. Yvan Mayeur, Vivaqua, 26,000 euros. Yvan Mayeur, Samusocial, 14,000 euros. We could have just read that! That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I call for the taboos to be broken here. It is said that we have to do self-control, but that does not work. That is why I ask the government and the members of the Political Renewal Committee, dear fellow Members of N-VA and other parties, to approve that law so that we make everything public. Okay? We'll do that next week. Before the vacation. Let us stop always slowing down everything in that committee so that nothing changes, because if you do not stop doing so, you will create the ground for the idea that politicians want to hide things among the population. Voila, that has to be said.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u42	Prime Minister, Secretary of State, I wanted to thank you for your answers. At Samusocial, not everyone is housed in the same brand. Unfortunately, these practices continue to feed the extremes. Political behaviour needs to be remedied. It's an emergency. For the MR group, I said, it is important to check that public money has been used for the exclusive benefit of the homeless. We must ensure that the survey can produce extremely rapid results. We count, Prime Minister, Secretary of State, on your determination in this regard. We cannot leave a case like this still pending for too long. There's an emergency!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u43	Colleagues of the majority, Open Vld and N-VA, gloating about another party only makes sense if you also clean up. In the Working Party on Political Renewal, one of the debates deals with our proposal to create transparency. We ask for transparency in that working group on all mandates and allowances of Members and of persons with executive mandates, such as mayors and ships. You know what? If we had already introduced it, we would have known for a long time what the situation was with Samusocial and Mr Mayeur. You have that responsibility, you have that power! I think it is right, ladies and gentlemen, however slow it may have been, that we in this House can very much agree on the importance of a firm approach to poverty in our country and attention to the homeless. Disgrace without action is lost energy. I hope that the justified indignation of the majority will lead to structural poverty and housing policies. I haven't seen much of that for a while. You know what? That would be an honest answer for all those volunteers on the street, who today show more heart than your entire government.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u44	Prime Minister, you replied that we have sufficient laws at our disposal to ensure transparency when an organisation or an institution is paid with public funds. Those laws are there, that's right. Yet they do not always work. How else do you explain that even the government commissioners at Samusocial are not now able to access certain documents? That's where it goes wrong. That needs to be addressed. I am pleased to note that the Working Party on Political Renewal has increased transparency and that there has been a consensus on one of the CD&V proposals, namely the extension of the mandates to the declaration of such fees. That's good. Ladies and gentlemen, we can approve many rules in the Working Party on Political Renewal and elsewhere, but how far should we go? How many rules must there be to simply realize that some things are simply not done, that people do not play with money intended for disadvantaged people, with money intended for homeless people. I don't need laws or additional rules for that. I think that is the essence of what we need to go back to. It is a good thing that there is a framework, but we really will not be able to catch up on everything. Look inside and judge for yourself what can and cannot be done. There is no need for a rule on such matters. Every kid knows that. That's inappropriate. The money for Samusocial should go to the shelter of homeless people and not to the payout of generous allowances. We will only be able to derive this from a figure in the future, namely the number of homeless people. Well, I hope that the number of homeless people in Brussels will finally decrease rather than increase. We will have to evaluate that in a few years' time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u45	For agenda reasons we have changed the order and now we move on to Mr Vanvelthoven's question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u46	Mr President, Minister, you have undoubtedly also seen a recent study in the northern European countries, Denmark, Norway and Sweden. This showed once again that there is a problem with what is called the super rich. Tax fraud is much better there than in the rest of society. We are talking about the Swedish coalition. In that sense, I would like to hear your opinion on this. The OECD has also for a long time argued that the OECD is not a club of socialist study services but is the study service of the rich western countries to take a targeted approach to that very specific category of super rich. The OECD considers this to be because it concerns people who have very complex tax and social situations, which require very thorough research. Meanwhile, 17 countries have set up such a super rich cell within their tax administration, including the United States, the United Kingdom, Australia and Canada, so not the least countries. The OECD said in a recent report that it is particularly disappointing that it is only about 17 countries. The OECD calls on other countries to set up such a unit within their tax administration. Sp.a has repeatedly advocated this here in Parliament. Mr President, as a result of the investigation, I would like to ask you whether you would like to follow this call from us, but also from the OECD, and whether you would like to follow up on the other countries that have already introduced it today?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u47	Mr President, Mr Vanvelthoven, this suggestion to create a super rich cell within the tax services is not new. In fact, I think I recognize an annual rhythm in renewing that proposal. The fact is, Mr Vanvelthoven, that this government is taking anti-fraud measures that have not seen the light of day under decades of socialist rule. I am aware that you will deny that, but the facts speak for themselves. First of all, my anti-fraud plan, many of which have already been implemented, explicitly focuses on major fraud. Secondly, there is the caiman tax with which we finally have an instrument to moustache up constructions in tax havens. I didn't think that existed before. Thirdly, we have strengthened the BBI, both in numbers and in equipment, to do this through data mining, for example, to more targeted detection. Fourthly, the number of files dealt with by the BBI has increased considerably in recent years, as has, by the way, the percentage of effective collections. I could go on like this for a while. We have opened up access to digital evidence, we have widened access to the central point of contact, we have introduced a disclosure obligation for financial institutions, we have extended investigation deadlines and we have been the first spontaneous exchange of rulings. In conclusion, I note that your and my focus are different. You focus on super rich people, I focus on big fraud. Not every person with a lot of money is by definition a fraud. Everyone must be equal before the law, not positive but not negative discrimination, but a targeted fight against major fraud. That's what it's my job to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u48	What surprises me, Minister, is that you are talking about my idea of this matter. My idea is equal to the idea that the OECD defends, that which the OECD recommends to all Western countries. This recommendation is followed by many Western countries, not because there is, by definition, fraud, which is not what I am saying either, but because it concerns a category in which complex dossiers are identified. Again, scientific research has shown that there is the large part of fraud. If you say today that you do not want to investigate this thoroughly, something other Western countries consider important today, please do not come here to Parliament and say that you are the great fraud hunter. The opposite is true.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u49	Mr President, Minister, on 22 May we were shocked by another attack, this time after a pop concert in Manchester, where many people were killed and injured. The terrorist in question of IS, Salman Abedi, once again appeared to maintain contact with IS through our country. However, OCAD was formal the day after the attack. There were no contacts with our country at any time. And then The New York Times came up with the story that there was indeed a contact and that through our country he maintained contacts with Islamic State. This is bad for our country's reputation, which, as a result of various other attacks, you remember Paris, our own Brussels airport, etc., has already been described internationally as the turning point of international terrorism, and certainly of Islamic State, of radical Islamic terrorism. Today, under the leadership of Patrick Dewael, the Counter-Terrorism Committee has published a number of recommendations, including the need to improve cooperation between intelligence services and the need to exchange information on the various lists of terrorist suspects and potential radicalists. Mr Minister, the most important thing to be done is that the 622 people on the OCAD list are taken into pre-trial custody once and for all, that we arrest them preventively and put them under lock and key until we have clarity about a situation, until the situation is normalized, as far as it will ever be. To this end, additional investigators must be appointed to ensure that those 622 and all those around them are no longer able to do what they do now: either commit terrorist acts themselves or are accomplices of those who commit the acts of terror elsewhere.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u50	Mr President, Mr Dewinter, I do not think I need to convince you that you should not believe everything that is in the press. Sometimes there are things in the press that aren't entirely true after research. At the OCAD and other security services, there is no confirmation that there would have been any contact between the perpetrators of the attack in Manchester and those who reside on our territory. At the moment, I always speak with two words, there is no indication of that. Nor is there any indication at present in the judicial investigations that Abrini would have previously had contacts with those people in Manchester. Secondly, Mr Dewinter, you are talking about 622 people on the OCAD list. There is a need for some nuance to be attached to that figure. After all, 280 people are or were in Syria. Some 120 of them have died or we have serious suspicions that they have died. That's category one. Category 2 of the OCAD list are people on their way. Right now, we're dealing with zero people. Category 3 is the return party. There are returners from before we strengthened the laws, let's say from the previous government. There are also returners from after the entanglement of the laws. Half of those returnees are in prison where they belong. There are two other categories. There is the category of those who were stopped and have made a failed attempt to go to Syria. The fifth category are those whose services suspect that they might have the intention to leave. It concerns about 144 people. There are still a number of people in custody. There's about 60 people in custody right now. About sixty people are also free under conditions. Mr Dewinter, we live in the rule of law. It is not the Minister of the Interior, nor is it the Minister of Justice, who is absent, who decides who is going to be detained. We are creating the legal framework, together with you and Parliament. That's what we did. The relevant laws have been adopted and strengthened. The intention to go to Syria can already be a reason for the judge to pronounce the detention. Those laws are there. However, in a rule of law, it is up to the judge to judge. Mr President, I would like to add one more point. Mr Dewinter, we are all defending ourselves together against this violent extremism, which is attacking our democracy and our values. However, I refuse to undress that democracy and those values in order to win the fight against the terrorists. We will do so within our framework and with our values and will thus win the fight against the terrorists.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u51	Minister, I wish I could share your enthusiasm and your voluntarism. We do not win the battle against radical Muslim terrorism. In proportion to the number of attacks we are currently facing in Europe, it is difficult to speak of victory, quite the contrary. In proportion to two to three attacks per week on European territory, this can hardly be seen as a victory, quite the contrary. We're losing that battle right now. There is a habit, including in public opinion, in the media and even in politics. We are happy with a dead sparrow and we are doing verbalism, rolling with the muscles, but unfortunately we are not taking sufficient practical and clear measures. The state of emergency must be in place and applied. Of the 622 people on the OCAD list, at least 100 to 150 are still at large, here, with us, in our country. It is not a violation of the rule of law or of democracy if we take those people into preventive custody and ensure that they cannot at least commit any acts of terrorism or cooperate in acts of terrorism in our country or abroad. This does not rape our democracy, but protects it. This would protect our people from those who want to destroy our democracy, especially Islam radicalists and Islam as such.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u52	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, like you, I was apprised with horror of the latest message from the Islamic State and reported by the press last night. We can now say: war is declared to us. Not by an identified enemy, but by barbarians for the most part unknown. We're late. They're not kidding. We have just lived in Paris, Nice, London, Brussels, Manchester and even Tehran... The threats are precise. They indicate places and the way. But they also ask their brothers to stay away, because these threats clearly target Europeans. They say: "Thousands of lonely lions are prepared in your countries. They have sold their body and spirit to the cause of Allah." It's amazing! But this highlights our laxity with regard to this permanent and imminent danger. As Minister of the Interior, you must ensure the safety of all our citizens. In a few minutes, we are going to vote for a bill reforming civil security in which the arming of security guards is not planned on a recurring basis. What a mistake! Our police officers cannot be armed outside their duty hours. Even the soldiers return their weapons once their services have been completed. Again a mistake. A sum of mistakes to satisfy certain ideologies that want to protect everything, they say, our fundamental freedoms, our privacy. If there's life again! Minister, if you do not take the measures that protect citizens, they risk arming themselves illegally to protect themselves. Then we risk living in chaos. For more than two years, we have been warning you that measures must be taken against returns. Months ago it was reported that mosques are at risk. All we have for our answers is: "No amalgam", "No stigmatization of one community", "Do not mount one community against another". My question is simple: what measures do you intend to take to protect citizens outside the establishment of a special parliamentary committee? In exceptional situation, exceptional measure!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u53	Mr President, Minister, following the attack on 22 May in Manchester, the United Kingdom was once again hit in its heart in London last Saturday. This attack shows us, if necessary, that as Daesh declines in its theatres of operations, particularly in Syria and Iraq, attempts are increasing in other countries closer to ours and at home to target areas with a high population concentration. The press indicated, as Mr Carcaci pointed out, that new threats had been made against eight countries. I'm not going to mention all of them, but among them is ours. The Islamic State's propaganda channels indicate that public places such as markets, streets, parking lots and the use of the baby car will be targeted in particular. This is not the first time, of course, that our country has been threatened, and we must remain vigilant. We must also pay attention to the implementation as soon as possible of the recommendations contained in the report, the conclusions of which were presented this morning by the Commission of Inquiry into the terrorist attacks of 22 March. Mr Minister of the Interior, since the last attacks on the baby car, have any additional measures been taken to secure the surroundings of places with a high concentration of pedestrians? Are your services aware of new forms of attack, other than the attack on the carrier car? Are local authorities, organizers of sociocultural or simply market gardening events sufficiently aware in Belgium, in our different regions, of the importance of completing their security arrangements?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u54	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall first answer Mr Pivin's questions, which are more specific. I sent the same circular as last year to all organizations and local authorities, concerning the things to do in the event that major festivities are held in their territory. The recommendation is to start with a risk analysis. This can be done in collaboration with the OCAM, which is available to local authorities for the development of risk analyses. The measures to be taken will be defined on the basis of this analysis. I therefore do not take all-inclusive measures, which are widespread throughout the country, valid for each event, because each situation is specific. A risk analysis must be based on which appropriate measures must be taken. Mr. Carcaci, you seem freaked out by this little movie. The services receive similar small films every week, similar messages. Fortunately, they don't panic. They stay calm, they do what they have to do. Luckily! There is now no reason to panic. And certainly not for the deputies, the representatives of the people. We need to stay calm. We need to take action. That's what this government does. We have taken these thirty measures, and ten more, on terrorism, following the thematic Council of Ministers. If you say we didn't do anything, you didn't follow things, Mr. Carcaci.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u55	Minister, thank you for your answer. I'm not freaking out. We are not in a situation of panic, but the citizen has reason to worry and panic. As a representative of this citizen, I report here, at the level of government, the sentiments of our voters and our fellow citizens. It is normal for me to ask the question and you to provide specific answers. You say that the OCAM is investigating the measures to be taken. But the measures of the OCAM are never only temporary. What are the structural measures to avoid such problems? Minister, we are opposite the soldiers of the Caliphate. They call themselves soldiers. They want the destruction of our values, our culture, everything that is not Muslim. In fact, they advocate sharia. I believe that you must take strong action against these barbarians and against all those who will give them direct or indirect support. The public needs to be reassured, Minister. It's not about panic. I'm starting to get tired of this recurring minute of silence that gets trivialized until I lose its original meaning.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u56	Mr President, Mr President, our colleague, Denis Ducrame, whom I was talking about at the moment with one of your colleagues, suggested, in the aftermath of the attacks in the British Parliament, that your services should draw up an inventory of the places which would require, in our country, additional arrangements to resist the confrontation of attacks on the ship-vehicle. This was an interesting suggestion shared by all members of the Attentats Commission. My intention was to make you aware of it and perhaps we must put it in place as part of the attention we need to pay to these frequent and permanent threats. We will all remain attentive to the implementation of the Commission's recommendations so that they can be implemented as quickly as possible for the safety of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u57	Mr President, Minister, not so long ago, the Federal Government decided to allow Infrabel to take on a loan of around EUR billion. This makes it possible, among other things, to achieve a number of regional rail priorities. Flemish Minister Ben Weyts and myself in the Infrastructure Committee have repeatedly called for consultation around this. Finally, a few days ago, the Executive Committee of the Mobility Ministers examined this matter for the first time. It seems as if things are falling into a definitive fold and therefore it is extremely important to prepare the right choices today. Those choices are clear, at least in the case of Flanders, plus minus. I hear Prime Minister Bourgeois regularly talking about the Limburg lines 18 and 19, but the further port opening in Antwerp is also a crucial track record for the Flemish economy. The importance of the dossier was demonstrated again yesterday during the actua debate in the Flemish Parliament. It clearly enjoyed room-wide interest, but there was also some concern about the choices that lie ahead today. The choices are crucial for mobility in Flanders and for the further development of the economy and the jobs associated with it. One of the conclusions of the Actua debate is that Minister Weyts reaches out to the federal level with a very specific demand for consultation in order to reach cooperation agreements. These can be two-fold. First of all, a cooperation agreement on the final joint choices I would like to press the word 'together', Madam Minister. Secondly, possible cooperation agreements on possible cofinancing. I have two specific questions. Firstly, do you share my view that it is important to arrive at joint choices? Secondly, does the federal level accept the outstretched hand of Flanders to enter into quick consultations?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u58	Thank you, Mr Raskin, for your question. The Council of Ministers has indeed decided to release additional funds of EUR 1 billion, as you said, on top of the balance of the GEN fund and the pre-financing of the Walloon region. This brings us to EUR 1.4 billion. In addition to EUR 1 billion for the GEN project, EUR 436 million will be made available for other projects, namely EUR 53 million for Wallonia, EUR 368 million for Flanders and EUR 15 million outside the distribution key. In accordance with the notification of the Council of Ministers, these amounts will be the subject of a cooperation agreement with the Regions. You will therefore be told that it comes from a notification from the Council of Ministers. The intention is therefore to conclude a cooperation agreement. At present, the necessary steps are being taken between the federal government and the regions to conclude that cooperation agreement. It is true that yesterday there was a meeting of the Executive Committee of the Mobility Ministers in which a good discussion took place. We are indeed following the reasoning that there should be a cooperation agreement, in consultation with the regions. Nothing will be determined by the federal government alone, but nothing will be determined by the Regions alone. That is precisely the intention of a cooperation agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u59	Clearly, Madam Secretary. I hear the conversation the day before yesterday in the executive committee was a good conversation. I assume that a good basis can be found for the discussions that are still to take place, because I understand that from your story too. I propose that we maintain the tone that Minister Bellot used when deciding on that billion: the additional budget makes regional rail priorities possible. This is perfectly part of the coalition agreement that we concluded together. I quote, from the passage on the multi-annual investment plan: "The North-South link', as well as the priority rail investment proposed by the Regions in the framework of an integrated mobility plan. Madam Minister, let us take care of this together. I hope you will send the message to Minister Bellot again that the multi-annual investment plan will not become a depannage plan which looks only at old projects and stories, but that it will become a real investment plan, focused on the priorities of the regions in this country.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u60	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u61	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 7 June 2017, I propose: . The following points to be postponed to Thursday 22 June 2017: - the draft law on measures to combat tax fraud, Nos 2400/1 to 4; - the draft law amending Article 276 of the Income Tax Code 1992 to set off the early collection of taxes on long-term savings, Nos 2454/1 to 3. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 7 June 2017, I propose: - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, - the draft law on measures to combat tax fraud, Nos. 2400/1 to 4. - the draft law amending Article 276 of the Income Tax Code 1992 with regard to the imputation of the advance collection of the long-term savings tax, Nos. 2454/1 to 3. . next item to postpone to Thursday 15 June 2017: - the proposal (Mr Peter De Roover, Mr Denis Ducarme, Mr Servais Verherstraeten and Mr Patrick Dewael) to revise Article 12 of the Constitution, Nos 2056/1 to 5; - the proposal (Mr Raf Terwingen, Mr Hendrik Vuye, Mr Denis Ducarme and Mr Patrick Dewael) to revise Article 12 of the Constitution in order to allow for a period of arrest of seventy-two hours for certain offences, Nos 1529/1 and 2; - the proposal (Mr Hans Bonte) to revise Article 12, third paragraph, of the Constitution as regards the extension of the time limit for arrest to 48 hours, Nos 1713/1 and 2; - the proposal (Mrs Catherine Fonck and Mr Christian Brotcorne and Mr Georges Dallemagne) to revise Article 12, third paragraph, of the Constitution, No. 1741/1; - the proposal (Mrs Catherine Fonck, Mr Benoît Lutgen, Mrs Vanessa Matz, Mr Georges Dallemagne and Mr Benoît Dispa, Mrs Isabelle Poncelet and Mr Michel de Lamotte) to revise Article 12 (3) of the Constitution, No. 2047/1; - the proposal (Mr Olivier Maingain and Mrs Véronique Caprasse) to revise Article 12 of the Constitution in order to bring the period of insurance to 48 hours, No. 2132/1. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, - the proposal (MM. Peter De Roover, Denis Ducrame, Servais Verherstraeten and Patrick Dewael) to review Article 12 of the Constitution, Nos. 2056/1 to 5; - the proposal (MM. Raf Terwingen, Hendrik Vuye, Denis Ducrame and Patrick Dewael) to review article 12 of the Constitution with a view to allowing for certain offences a period of arrest of seventy-two hours, nos. 1529/1 and 2; - the proposal (Mr Hans Bonte) to revise Article 12(3) of the Constitution with a view to extending the period of arrest to 48 hours, Nos. 1713/1 and 2; - the proposal (Ms Catherine Fonck and MM. Christian Brotcorne and Georges Dallemagne) to review article 12, paragraph 3, of the Constitution, No. 1741/1; - the proposal (Ms Catherine Fonck, Benoît Lutgen, Vanessa Matz, MM. Georges Dallemagne and Benoît Dispa, Mrs Isabelle Poncelet and Mr Michel de Lamotte) to review Article 12, paragraph 3, of the Constitution, No. 2047/1; - the proposal (Mr. Olivier Maingain and Ms. Véronique Caprasse) to revise Article 12 of the Constitution to extend the time limit for police custody to 48 hours, No. 2132/1. . to enter next item on the agenda of today's plenary session: - the bill (Mrs Muriel Gerkens and Mrs Anne Dedry, Mr Stefaan Van Hecke, Mr Wouter De Vriendt, Mr Benoit Hellings and Mr Jean-Marc Nollet and Mrs Evita Willaert) amending Royal Decree No. 78 of 10 November 1967 concerning the pursuit of health care professions in order to distribute contraceptives and the morning-afterpil free of charge through the family planning centres, on presentation of an "Anticonception pass', Nos 1456/1 to 5; - the legislative proposal (Mrs Fabienne Winckel, Mr André Frédéric, Ms Özlem Özen, Mr Daniel Senesael, Ms Karine Lalieux and Mr Alain Mathot) amending the coordinated law of 10 May 2015 on the pursuit of health care professions, so that recognised institutions may proceed to provide emergency contraceptives that do not pose a health risk, Nos 1759/1 and 2. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, - the bill (Ms. Muriel Gerkens and Anne Dedry, MM. Stefaan Van Hecke, Wouter De Vriendt, Benoit Hellings and Jean-Marc Nollet and Mrs Evita Willaert) amending Royal Decree No. 78 of 10 November 1967 on the exercise of the health care professions, in order to allow the free distribution of contraceptives and the next day's pill via the Family Planning Centres by means of a "Contraception Pass", Nos. 1456/1 to 5; - the proposal for a law (Ms Fabienne Winckel, Mr André Frédéric, Ms Özlem Özen, Mr Daniel Senesael, Ms Karine Lalieux and Mr Alain Mathot) amending the coordinated laws of 10 May 2015 relating to the exercise of the health care professions, in order to allow the distribution of emergency contraceptives which are not likely to pose a danger to health by approved bodies, Nos 1759/1 and 2. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u62	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Wouter De Vriendt, Benoit Hellings, Kristof Calvo, Jean-Marc Nollet, Muriel Gerkens, Evita Willaert, Georges Gilkinet, Anne Dedry.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u63	The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2055/8) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2055/8) The title was changed by the committee to "Proposal for a Resolution to revise Belgium's foreign policy with regard to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia." The title was amended by the committee as a motion for a resolution to reconsider Belgium's foreign policy towards the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia." The meeting's open. The discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u64	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u65	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is of course a coincidence that we are discussing this motion for a resolution today. There is no connection, but Amnesty International is currently taking action in the social media about the fact that Mrs al-Hathloul was arrested in Saudi Arabia on 4 June. The crime she committed is that she drove the car. She drove into the country and it cost her dearly. Apparently, that's a reason to be arrested as a woman in Saudi Arabia. It illustrates the background to the text before us. Fortunately, because of the natural resources, we are not thinking of material shortages, but of a number of other issues, which are rightly the source of the motion for a resolution tabled by my fellow Members. We are thinking primarily of human rights. We can debate this for a long time, but there are a number of red lines that we do not want to cross in our conviction of human dignity. I am thinking of the death penalty, torture, freedom of the press, religious freedom, women's rights, sexual freedom and the way justice is done. These are all matters in which Saudi Arabia is an example, but in the negative. With the word Saudi Arabia, we are also thinking of financing wahabism. The country then defends itself, technically rightly, by saying that it does not finance IS, because IS is just an opponent of the Saudi Arabian regime, but the least one can see is that it attracts matches in the vicinity of a haymite. One can say that one did not light the fire himself, but that there is a fire, is a logical consequence of playing with the matches. Another element that appears in Saudi Arabia is a geostrategic geopolitical element, namely stability in the region. Unlike many other regimes, the Saudi regime has indeed been a beacon of stability for a very long time. However, in recent years, including the active participation in the war in Yemen, we have noticed that Saudi Arabia could become a threat rather than a guarantee in this area today. These are some of the arguments or reasons why the proposal has been put forward, which we will soon be supporting in an amended form with our group. We do so because we cannot watch such manifest violations without unemployment. However, we must do more than calm our personal consciences by adding something here to the already existing pile of paper. We must dare to go beyond raising our fingers, because we are outraged. In this context, we are not in favour of a kind of automatic boycott of Saudi Arabia in trade relations, firstly because trade is not normally done with a country, but with companies, and secondly because it is important that we want to have some impact on the situation there, through concrete relations with that country, for example through trade relations alongside natural diplomacy. We must dare to appeal to companies for their social responsibility, and perhaps the resolution can help to do so. Moreover, in our approach to the problem, we should not give the impression that Saudi Arabia is waiting for what is happening in our hemisphere. That is why the text also contains an explicit reference to the European Union and the United Nations. In this way, we can use our influence indirectly and try to impact on the situation in Saudi Arabia through a broad front, a broad coalition with European allies and even worldwide. In the motion for a resolution, we have also made a clear commitment to respect for the division of powers in our country. In fact, from our committee, the Land Parliaments were asked to give a response. It is a pity that only the Flemish Parliament has gone into this, but the reasons why people were less enthusiastic about it on the other side of the language border may be suspicious. Our question has given rise to a broad debate in the Flemish Parliament and I think we can take very much into account what has been said there. This has also inspired us in the discussion of the text before us. It is also a good thing that these powers have been transferred to the sub-areas in a number of areas. If we were still to argue in a Belgian context, I fear that, for example, as regards arms trade, the Flemish solution would not have been chosen, but that, as always in Belgium, the Walloon solution would prevail. In any case, Flanders has been given and seized the opportunity to pursue a much more progressive policy in this area. We will undoubtedly hear high-pitched words here today. I have nothing against that in itself. When it comes to the situation in Saudi Arabia, it concerns concrete people. Mr. Secretary, welcome. It is well known that in all contacts with Saudi Arabia, as well as in international institutions and meetings where that theme is addressed, you always speak a clear language, for example on the death penalty, and that you are also making the impact you can have hard. Human rights organisations recognise this explicitly and explicitly. Now, with the motion for a resolution, we would like to support you once again. Not only do you have our support in this, but we want to continue to encourage you in this. This is also one of the intentions of the proposed text. I would also like to express my thanks for the good cooperation with the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance in the discussion in committee, which has taken a great deal of time. I hope that, when we vote, our Chamber will send out a message as united as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u66	Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me ask you a question at the start of our debate. Would we consider this text today if Belgium had not supported Saudi Arabia's candidacy in the UN Commission on Women's Rights? I do not believe that I am wrong or reductive in saying that, in the eyes of the majority, the main merit of this resolution is undoubtedly that it gives it an opportunity to divert the attention of this United Nationsgate and to try to make up for it. As a reminder, in an unnamed imbroglio between the discordant versions of the Prime Minister and his Minister for Foreign Affairs, we learned that Belgium supported Saudi Arabia's candidacy in the UN Commission on Women's Rights without the federal government, at least initially, seeing the slightest problem. In the face of collective indignation, ladies and gentlemen of the majority and, more specifically, Minister Reynders have sought to set a counterfire to make this scandalous vote in the United Nations forget. Ladies and gentlemen, you have found this counterfire by voting for an Ecolo-Groen text to reconsider foreign policy towards the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. Before this vote, however, you have made sure that the demands made to the federal government have been largely watered down and, at the same time, you have charged as much as possible the requests that fall within the competence of the Regions and, in particular, Wallonia – I will come back to that when I mention the dual-use links, terminology that you have systematically avoided in this text so as not to embarrass your Flemish partners of this majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u67	Mr President, I welcome Mrs Grovonius' speech, but I want to rename it! We have known in its time the Countess of Segur; today we know Countess Grovonius. Indeed, she has the art of telling stories to make us take bladders for lanterns. I would point out that the Ecolo Group tabled its text well before, in a non-suspecto tempore, and that we had already asked, in a non-suspecto tempore, well before the point it points out, the opinion of the Regions, in particular that of the Walloon Region, of which we all know how disappointing it is. We were in the continuity of a file. I understand that after the Samusocial case, Mrs Grovonius is extremely bored, because she is under an obligation to support the sale of arms to Saudi Arabia by Belgium and, consequently, she tells us a story that cannot even sleep up!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u68	Thank you for this speech by Mr Flahaux, who, as usual, is expanding our debates! You will have understood, ladies and gentlemen, therefore, several questions arise from the outset on the real motivations of the majority in this matter. Indeed, if the majority were fully convinced by the various requests in this text, how can we explain that the PVs of the European Foreign Affairs Councils which are regularly sent to us by the administration seem very often silent on the question of Saudi Arabia and human rights in this country? If the majority were fully convinced by the various demands of this text, then how can we understand the mutism of the head of Belgian diplomacy when it comes to relaying, at the level of his European peers, repeated Walloon demands for a European arms embargo? If the majority were fully convinced by the various demands of this text, why did not the parties that make up it then submit resolutions in the regional parliaments where they sit asking their respective governments to put an end, as is the case here, to the import, export and transit of military and dual-use equipment with Saudi Arabia? Above all, if the majority were fully convinced by the various demands of this text, how can we understand the vote that took place at the United Nations a few weeks ago? Asking these questions, in the end, is already answering it. Indeed, this September 2016 text, Mr Flahaux, is far from new and has been under discussion for months in the Committee on External Relations. My group has, moreover, always been very constructive in this context, contrary to the majority, the same majority who, moreover, rejected the proposal made by my group several months ago to seek an opinion from the Senate. Why ask the Senate for this advice? Because it is the neighbouring parliamentary assembly which has been most able to decide on this text since the sixth reform of the state, which is very much concerned with regionalised or communalised competences and on which the federal level, the House in this case, has no control or legitimacy. In the meantime, an opinion has indeed been sought from the parliaments of the federated entities. The Flemish Parliament has submitted a text which rejects the demands made in the resolution we are discussing today. The Parliament of Wallonia, for its part, considered itself not competent to look at a text of the House, which – and I have already said on many occasions – I regret of course. But in the meantime, no one is fooled. The positive vote by Belgium, which allowed Saudi Arabia to join the UN Commission on Women's Rights, cannot be overshadowed by this debate. That is why I come to the text before us today. In committee, during the article-by-article vote, my group supported requests for federal jurisdiction and abstained on requests for federal jurisdiction. On the whole, we have abstained and will repeat this vote today in plenary for this reason. However, it is not because we differ on the method that there is no agreement on the principle. In this context, my group's proactive positions on human rights and social and environmental standards are no longer to be demonstrated. It would be dishonest to pretend otherwise. Without double standards, we pay attention to the human rights situation with all our trading partners, regardless of the continent to which they belong.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u69	Mr President, Mrs Grovonius, you rightly rejected our Foreign Minister, who, a few weeks ago since his office, was able to give a positive opinion on Belgium's vote in favour of Saudi Arabia's participation in the UN Commission on Women's Rights. But, in this case, why not be consistent in asking Mr Magnette, the Walloon government's minister-president, who is the only competent, as Mr Reynders was, to decide, in his office, to grant an arms license to Saudi Arabia, to show the same commitment, the same conviction in terms of human rights? It's just a matter of consistency. It is true, Mrs Grovonius, that if a bumblebee had not been committed, this resolution would not be discussed here. But the legitimate demand of the citizens who have rightly been shocked by this decision must be answered by taking strong action by putting federal and regional policies on the same line. That is what the resolution before us today calls for.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u70	It is in this sense that we have had a text on Qatar voted in the previous legislature. It is also for this reason that the PS co-signed a resolution on Saudi Arabia. This is therefore not the first time that we are talking about Saudi Arabia here, since, already on 18 June 2015, we voted for this resolution which called for "a thorough reflection on Belgium's diplomatic, military, economic, commercial and energy relations with Saudi Arabia, in the light of the terrible record of this regime in terms of human rights and fundamental freedoms, and the emblematic case of Mr. Raif Badawi, but also of the role of some Saudi officials in financing international terrorism". I imagine that it was precisely this in-depth reflection that led to Belgium's favourable vote for Saudi Arabia's admission to the UN Commission on Women's Rights. As we all know, human rights in Saudi Arabia are being violated on a large scale. This is one of the most repressive regimes in the world, where freedom of expression and freedom of association are undermined. This is obviously unacceptable. Belgium must actively support international organizations, those of Saudi civil society, and those who defend rights and freedoms in Saudi Arabia and who are working in particular to improve the status of women in that country. That is why, in Saudi Arabia and elsewhere, we must oppose as strongly as possible the use of torture and corporal punishment and condemn them, like all violations of the rights of women, LGBTQI and minorities. That is why I spoke so strongly to the Prime Minister and Minister Reynders about the legitimate controversy arising from Belgium's vote at the UN. Of course, multilateralism is important and I believe that we must maintain diplomatic relations with that country, given the regional context. But on the occasion of Belgium's individual and secret vote, we missed a good opportunity to show our difference. Similarly, our federal government refuses to take a leading role in the Council of the European Union in the implementation of a European arms embargo and on dual-use goods to Saudi Arabia. This is what Wallonia has long been asking for. Such an embargo on arms exports and dual-use goods to Saudi Arabia will, however, have a significant impact only if it is adopted at European level rather than at the Belgian level alone. The Flemish Parliament does not say anything else in its opinion. Did Minister Reynders need this resolution to adopt this position requested by Wallonia? Probably not, if he had had the will. Similarly, with regard to trade relations in the broader sense, I would like to quote a sentence from the Flemish Parliament's opinion that "it is not the authorities or governments that have commercial relations with foreign regimes and authorities, but rather the companies that export and undertake at international level; that it is therefore necessary to draw a clear distinction between State-to-State relations and relations between private companies; that, on the other hand, companies can be expected to act within the framework of socially responsible entrepreneurship".
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u71	Mr President, I am a little surprised that Mrs Grovonius mentioned the need to separate public power and business. I would like to ask her if she knows, by any chance, who owns 100% of the FN company. It's the same Walloon Region. So it's the same public power you want to separate between public power and private enterprise. Mrs Grovonius, at the end of your presentation, I imagine that there will be someone in the corridor who will award you the diploma of best arms salesman of Wallonia!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u72	Mr Flahaux, thank you for this speech, which once again is of a striking depth. (...) Let me finish! I simply quoted a sentence in the Flemish Parliament's opinion. No problem, Mr. Flahaux. With regard to this quotation, we realize that in this context it would have been useful for the government to come and present to us the famous National Plan of Action "Entreprises and Human Rights" which has been announced to us since the beginning of the legislature but which has not yet arrived, despite the contributions made by the Regions. Again, is Minister Reynders waiting for us to vote on this resolution to move forward on this point? Wallonia did not wait for this text to legislate. The Walloon decree on weapons is one of the most stringent at European level. It is not my role, as a Member of Parliament, because I am not competent in this matter, to recall these elements. But let me do so for the sake of clarity in the debate. The Walloon Decree of 21 June 2012 incorporates the eight criteria of the common position of the European Union. These provide a mandatory basis of analysis for all export activities outside the EU and NATO countries. In 2003, Belgium was the first country in the Union to incorporate the European Code of Conduct into its legislation, although it was not yet binding. The list of weapons covered by the legislation, as contained in the Belgian Act of 1991, is one of the most comprehensive in the European Union. It should also be recalled that Walloon legislation on arms exports is one of the only laws that applies equally to civilian weapons. Of course, legislation is made up of criteria. As far as arms legislation is concerned, for sensitive and very sensitive cases, the dossiers follow rigorous analyses based, inter alia, on the eight criteria of the Common Position of 8 December 2008 and on the work carried out within the COARM Group on conventional arms exports. In the light of developments, Wallonia has repeatedly initiated specific round tables on Saudi Arabia and the Gulf region. At present, Saudi Arabia is considered a reliable customer by COARM partners - the same Saudi Arabia that is a member, like Belgian Defense, of the international coalition against Daesh. I would also remind you that the resolution adopted by the House in the fight against Daesh underlines the need for sufficient regional political and military support. Although I do not like it, it must be noted that Saudi Arabia plays a central role in this, in one of the most complex regions of the world. Therefore, as I have always done, I urge the adoption of strict European criteria which the Member States and, in the case of Belgium, the Regions will be able to apply in full transparency and coherence. Finally, as I did in committee, you will not prevent me from stressing the will of the federal majority to re-establish the Community in this matter and to put the blame on Wallonia. First of all, I would like to point out that almost 80% of Belgian exports to Saudi Arabia are made by Flanders. Flemish Minister-President Geert Bourgeois has never bothered to grant his green light for the export of weapons parts – from the sights – to Saudi Arabia. Flanders would therefore have the advantage of sweeping in front of its door before giving lessons, which exports at least seven to eight times more dual-use equipment than Wallonia, according to the lowest estimates. As far as dual-use equipment is concerned, the MR, as a good defender of Flanders and in trying to point the finger at the FN, has done everything in committee so that these two simple words, understandable by all, do not appear anywhere in this text. You can look, you won't find them! My amendments to this effect have all been rejected and, today, the Chamber's legal services have confirmed the vagueness of the text adopted by the majority. In the end, this blurred the affairs of the Flemish Region.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u73	Mr President, please excuse me, but this point deserves clarification. I would like to hear from the Minister of Foreign Affairs earlier on. For dual-use weapons technology, it is true that unfortunately the term has not been explicitly included in the text of the motion for a resolution. However, the lists referred to in Articles 6 and 12 of Common Position 2008/944/CFSP of the European Council of 8 December 2008 are mentioned. In my view, the one referred to in Article 6 relates precisely to dual-use technology. That being said, my colleague is right. In fact, in the meantime, European references have changed. I would like to be clear and clear in asking for a precise answer from the Minister for Foreign Affairs as to the fact that the motion for a resolution also applies to dual-use equipment. This is an important aspect of our discussions. In my opinion, yes, but the reference is no longer entirely accurate. That is why I would like a formal confirmation to be given.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u74	Perhaps we will have this confirmation that we have not been able to obtain verbally in committee. In the meantime, at the end of our work in committee, a legal opinion has obviously been requested on the proposed formulations. This opinion suggests a different one. Moreover, I have tabled two amendments which take word for word...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u75	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u76	Just a moment, Mr. Miller. No, we're not doing that. We're asking for the floor. Interruptions are always possible, but you must ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u77	Mr President, excuse me, but it is still difficult to agree to listen to Mrs Grovonius saying things that are not accurate. I don't call her a liar. I'm not going that far. But his way of reading things is really surprising. Mrs Grovonius, I will reply to you earlier about the Walloon Region. But I am responding to the specific point that you raise, on the note that was forwarded to us, at your request, by the legal services. The chairman of the committee had agreed to forward your request. I'm asking you one thing, Mrs Grovonius, before you start turning around the pot. According to the services of the Chamber, are dual-use goods not affected by the text that we have tabled? Answer me, Mrs Grovonius! It is written black and white in the response of the House services. Don't say that's not true! Don't say it's not there! It's the beginning. This is the first paragraph of the note that was forwarded to us by the House of Commons.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u78	Sir, if you had allowed me to continue, I would have been very pleased to continue to develop my thinking. I could have taken up the elements that are actually contained in this legal opinion which I have asked for. I would like to point out that there has been a great deal of debate in committee to ensure that this request is accepted. [[Brouhahaha]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u79	Let's hear Mrs. Grovonius!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u80	Let us go back to the question now, whether or not the text, as formulated today, covers dual-use material. According to the Chamber's legal services, as drafted today, the provision compels the reader to engage in a track game that does not facilitate understanding. The text refers to Article 6 of Council Common Position 2008/944/CFSP of 8 December 2008, which refers to Regulation (EC) No 1334/2000, which should itself be understood as Regulation (EC) No 428/2009. The services indicate that, since the aim is also to cover dual-use goods listed in Annex 1 to Regulation (EC) No 428/2009, this will be expressly mentioned in the text of the resolution, which is not the case today. The Chamber's legal services also indicate that item 2/1, as amended, refers to the list referred to in Articles 6 and 12 of the Common Position, which suggests that the two articles refer to the same list, which is not the case. Article 6 refers to dual-use goods, which are listed in Annex 1 to Regulation (EC) No 428/2009, while Article 12 refers to the common list of military equipment of the European Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u81	On this point, Mrs Grovonius, it is true that with the MR, we have worked on a sub-amendment referring to Article 6 and Article 12 of a common position 2008/944. This is a fundamental step forward. And the Chamber's legal department says on page 1, because here you read page 2, I quote: "We assume that the expression, the export records of military technology and equipment contained in the list referred to in articles 6 and 12 also refers to dual-use goods." We can't be clearer than that! It's important because there's a precedent. Using Article 6 and Article 12 of the 2008 Common Position on the sale of arms is exactly what the European Parliament has done to include dual-use goods in a resolution adopted in February 2016 by the Socialist parliamentarians, Mrs Grovonius, calling for a European arms embargo on Saudi Arabia. Therefore, this resolution is on the right track, as it is taking the same path as the Socialists have taken in the European Parliament to include dual-use goods in a resolution on the same subject matter. Mrs Grovonius, we must stop with this pathetic smokescreen!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u82	Mrs Grovonius, you asked in committee to meet the double use of certain materials. The majority have done the same. We have referred to a list that is used at European level to identify these materials. You say that list doesn't contain that. The Court's legal advice says it should be read that way. You are probably not the only one, I suspect that the other Socialist party will be looking for the same problems, but you are looking for nails on low tide. You refuse to read what it says, and I suspect that this is in order to achieve an alternative agenda for which you may not want to come out.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u83	Mr President, I am surprised by the support that Ecolo-Groen has given to the amendments that have been tabled, although they remain ambiguous. I have read all the opinions given by the Legal Service. I'm not going to read what I said again. However, it is clearly stated that if we wish to make explicit reference to dual-use goods, it would be ideal to mention this explicitly in the text of the resolution. However, this reference to dual-use material is not found anywhere in the text - and this is probably no coincidence. I, Mr Hellings, have done the only thing I have done, and I have tabled it as it is. There are two amendments which are on your bench and which are purely and simply the whole of the proposal which has been submitted to us by the Legal Service of the House. I don't see how we can be clearer than that. If, however, there is no agreement on these amendments, you will allow me to continue to think that it is because there is a will, at some point, not to explicitly find this terminology in the text before us today. In this context, I think that the problem of coherence certainly does not come from me or from my group, but from this majority, which maintains a continuous double language on this issue and which makes two-franc communautarianism on this important issue. I have no difficulty with consistency, Mr. Hellings. From the beginning, my party's position is very clear: to call for a European arms embargo on dual-use goods. I don't see how we can be clearer than that. On the other hand, I am referring here to positions that vary according to the level of power in which one finds oneself on the part of other groups. We're not. We have a position, which we have defended at all levels of power.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u84	I am a little surprised because I have always loved the PS, besides partner in my commune, the rightness and respect of commitments. I've always enjoyed it. But here, it's a bit painful to see the circumvolutions of my dear colleague. We really feel that she learns the language that was very popular in another political party that I will not mention, the language of "yes but no". So it's extremely depressing. Indeed, to say that we will move forward when all of Europe moves forward is to say that we will never move forward. Why?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u85	But I didn't interrupt you! Mr. President, please!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u86	Mr. Laaouej! What I said to Mr. Miller applies to you too, Mr. Laaouej.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u87	In fact, frankly, as a good little ambassador of arms to Saudi Arabia, Mrs Grovonius makes a proposal that is not one. And she knows that, too! Because basically, it must be an extraordinary calvary for her to make all this talk she doesn't believe in for a second! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u88	So, Mrs Grovonius, you say that this is a question of coherence between the different levels of power. I have just told you that in the European Parliament, in February 2016, when the European parliamentarians, including the Socialists, wanted to propose a European arms embargo, the one you call your vows, and at the same time register the dual-use goods - which are dear to you and to us - they used through Articles 6 and 12 of the Common Position of 2008/944, exactly what we have just done. Therefore, the consistency between European positioning, federal positioning and regional positioning requires the mention of these articles, this 2008 common position, and not the explicit mention of dual-use goods. That said, if you want to table your amendment, table it. We will vote for greater clarity. However, in the resolution that we will be voting on earlier, there is a reference to dual-use goods, as your European Socialist colleagues did in the European Parliament in 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u89	Mr President, I will continue my speech because I think that on this point we will never agree. I see one thing: we have all received the final version. A keyword search is not complicated to do in a text. If you find me a single place where, in this text, it is mentioned "double use", where a member of the majority indicates, in the report, that this covers well the dual use material (...). Do the research yourself in the report and you will see if you find it as it is. It did not seem clear to me that we were also hearing about dual-use equipment. But I hope that the minister will bring all the necessary clarity In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make it clear that it is human rights and social and environmental standards that must prevail throughout our economic relations. To do so, each entity in the country must do its work within its competence, so that its actions, decisions and exports are consistent with objective and quantifiable criteria, in a necessary European coherence. Do I have to point out that the rightful sanctions against Russia, in the context of the annexation of Crimea by that country, have been imposed within a European framework? This text has the merit of initiating an essential debate and asserting the importance of human rights. But I must admit that the hypocrisy and the mix of the genres it underlies have disturbed me throughout the debate and continue to do so. This bothers me because, during this time, the federal government remains silent in European and international forums when it comes to opposing Saudi women's rights, for example, or defending a European embargo. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, my group will abstain from this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u90	Mrs Grovonius, I am not hiding the fact that I am very disappointed by the lack of support for this resolution by the PS Group. I have the impression that you have had a false debate, in fact all the time. The legal service of the Chamber, as a number of colleagues have said, cannot be clearer than it has been. His legal opinion is that the arms embargo which this text calls for, and that has not yet been addressed, the ban imposed on Delcredere-Credendo to ensure arms exports to Saudi Arabia also applies to the so-called dual-use goods. That's in writing in the Court's legal advice. What this debate is really about is, of course, that you are not prepared to support our country's arms embargo against Saudi Arabia. Point on the line. You are for arms exports from Belgium to Saudi Arabia. You have not at any time agreed to an arms embargo by our country against Saudi Arabia, because the amendments you have not retabled today have been tabled in committee. I don't know if you're too embarrassed to retable them today, which is quite possible. However, these are your Amendments Nos 3 and 5. Ladies and gentlemen, the aim of these amendments was nothing less than to remove the Belgian arms embargo from the text and to replace it with a much more vague, more general European arms embargo. That is the reality. So it has been nothing more than a sham of yours all along, not to brusque the Belgian arms exports to Saudi Arabia in particular. You then opened your umbrella to refer to some European arms embargo. Colleagues, the reality is that 70% of European arms exports to Saudi Arabia come from Belgium, mostly from Wallonia. That's what you're afraid to touch. That is what you are proving in Amendments Nos 3 and 5. However, you no longer have the courage to table these amendments again today. That is the reality, that is what this debate is about. So this debate is not about dual use, the legal service of the Chamber is quite clear, it is about your unwillingness to impose that embargo on the Belgian industry and the Walloon arms industry.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u91	Mr President, I repeat that we are in favour of a European arms embargo. I don't know how to be clearer than that. We can deduce everything we want and draw all the conclusions we want on that basis. Our position is that. It is known to all of us for a long time. There has never been any change or variation in this position that has been defended since the beginning. Why have or have not amendments been tabled? We are not going to repeat the debate on an ongoing basis. I expressed my position. Is it worth coming here to table amendments which have, in any case, been rejected in committee? I do not think that would make it easier to read the debates. On the other hand, two new amendments were tabled today. They have not yet been discussed in committee and are now on your benches. They just take up, word for word, the suggestion made by the Chamber's legal services to clarify the text which is now being put to our vote and which actually makes it possible to have, in a very clear way, the mention of dual-use goods, without going through a series of circumvolutions on this issue. These two amendments are on your bench. Perhaps the simplest way would be to vote on them and incorporate them into the text. This would be done in response to the advice provided by the Chamber's legal services.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u92	I hear Mrs Grovonius pointing out contradictions that we would have. I believe that every human being is filled with contradictions. We can take care of some of them. But I find Mrs Grovonius paradoxical on one point. I remember the debates, not so long ago, on the unilateral recognition of Palestine. We argued and did not share the same attitude. We said that Palestine had to fulfil a series of conditions, and that a common European attitude was needed. At that time, Mrs. Grovonius got carried away by saying: "No! No! We can work alone. We, the only Belgium, can recognize Palestine." Here, she adopts a completely different language. She'd have to explain her own logic to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u93	I continue to say and think that we should indeed recognize the State of Palestine. Moreover, other European states have already done so, Mr Flahaux. We would therefore only step in with other European states that have taken action. But I have no difficulty with the lame arguments that you are trying to put on the table to justify the inconsistency of your position on human rights, Mr Flahaux. Moreover, if you want to talk about Palestine and Israel, I urge you to add that you are also calling for an arms embargo on Israel. A petition from Amnesty International is currently circulating. The reasons behind the text that you are voting today could apply equally to Israel.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u94	Mr. President, Mrs. Grovonius called me. Mrs Grovonius, it is enough for the Walloon Region to stop selling arms to the state you have just mentioned. But she does. [[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u95	As I have indicated, we are asking for the floor. Mr Miller has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u96	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this debate on Belgian-Saudi relations is essential. It is first for geopolitical reasons, then for economic reasons, and finally it is also – we hear several groups speaking in this regard – ethically. I would like to begin my speech by placing the subject of our discussion in a more general context. I think, in this case, of the debate that we will have to have with the Foreign Minister in September on all aspects of this relationship. Saudi Arabia's role as a regional power in the Middle East is to oppose religiously in a destructive manner against Iran. We see this in the ongoing war in Yemen. On the other hand, this State may play a more positive role as sponsor of the Arab-Israeli peace process. However, Saudi Arabia is involved in the spread of a rigorist Islam – Wahhabi – in the region, but also on our continent. External influences weigh on the development of a modern Islam, which halts the implementation of a democratic Islam, which would be fully integrated into our right and the secular philosophy underlying it: that of the separation of the Church and the State, that of the freedom to believe or not to believe, that where religion does not have its place in the structures of the State, that of freedom of worship, that of the primacy of civil law over any law claiming to be God. We will also discuss with Minister Reynders his role as a trading power, as a financial power investing in sectors abroad; the role, finally, of Saudi Arabia in an important sector: the arms market. We will also have to address the role of our diplomatic representation in Riyadh, vis-à-vis the Saudi authorities and vis-à-vis our commercial federated entities. Beyond the debate we will have at the beginning of September on all these elements with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, there is, of course, the real application of fundamental human rights and freedoms: sexual rights, freedom of thought, freedom of expression, etc. The debate that we will have must also be placed in the legal and constitutional rules of our foreign policy, that is, within the framework of our federal state, with its realities and imperfections. But a framework based on a federalism of cooperation, which respects both the autonomy of federated entities and their responsibilities, but which also emphasizes smart collaboration between the federal state and federated entities. In this case, we can only have an overview of our relationship with Saudi Arabia, a dispassionate and serene view if we are able, as much as we are, to be coherent. We will be if we rely on a number of intangible principles, the first of which is the defence of human rights. We will be consistent if we rely on the principle of accountability within a rule of law, where each level of power must make decisions within its competence and must be able to bear the consequences of its choices. As politicians, we are faced with a rigorous exercise. Let us assume the choices we make, each one at our level of power and according to the skills that are ours! But let us also collectively carry an obligation of coherence between the levels of power in this country! Mr President, this coherence and responsibility, after the vote on this resolution, which I hope will be positive, we will have to preserve it, with a single speech at the federal level and in the federated entities. Mr Foreign Minister, our political group fully supports you when you want, through bilateral or multilateral channels, to foster dialogue between the two major powers of the Middle East, Iran and Saudi Arabia. Every effort must be made to stop the infernal process that has been observed for the time being: the Daesh attack in Tehran and the isolation of Qatar in the region. We must maintain the best possible relations with all the actors in the region, Shiites as Sunni, with a speech of truth, a constructive speech but also a critical one. We must maintain a multilateral policy with the Gulf countries, speak with all the countries that matter in the region. This dialogue will focus on international conflicts, the peace process between Israel and Palestine fifty years after the 1967 war, the future of Syria and Iraq at a time when the war against Daesh seems to have its final chapters, the solidity of Lebanon, the war in Yemen and the increasingly chaotic security situation in Afghanistan. On all these issues, namely war and peace, development, the reconstruction of States, multicultural and multi-convictional coexistence, we have modest expertise to make known and help. We have development cooperation interests in that region, in Palestine. We are present militarily in Iraq and Syria but also in Afghanistan. We have been present at length in Lebanon. I could refer to other examples through the international forum of la francophonie. Colleagues, diplomatic solutions are needed in this region. Our country, along with others and through the European Union channel, is available to chart the paths of understanding and dialogue, to weave the conditions of opportunity for the people to live in this region of the world. Iran has just voted and the elections have strengthened the progressive clan. Saudi Arabia is a key player in this region and it is essential to understand the interests and vision that each of the two stands for. Minister, the MR supports you when you register the defence and promotion of human rights as a priority of our foreign policy. This is noted black and white in all the Minister's policy notes since he took office. As with all countries, human rights are an integral part of our bilateral relations with Saudi Arabia. Belgium systematically addresses the subject of human rights, in particular rights and freedoms and the question of the death penalty, in all bilateral contacts the Minister has with these countries. The Reform Movement will return in the coming days to a very important issue with the tabling of proposals for the universal abolition of the death penalty. We will table a text that will be open to co-signature. Individual files are also discussed during bilateral contacts, as was the case for Raif Badawi. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs has repeated several times in plenary and committee, dialogue and commitment should be given priority, or all doors should be closed and progress prevented. This is the only way to achieve progress on concrete issues through bilateral or multilateral channels. Finally, I come to the economic side. We have commercial relations with Saudi Arabia – that's true – without exclusive and dependency. Such trade relations should not only be considered on the basis of economic interests. We must also go beyond that vision; we must have in mind the responsibility we have for the preservation of human rights and freedoms. We support the federal government's position not to participate in economic missions to Saudi Arabia as long as the human rights situation in that country remains what it is. The key point of all these economic relations is the arms trade. We have already discussed this issue well enough today. We discussed it at length in committee. Each party was able to present its views, as was the case in plenary. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said at the beginning of my speech, a position must be consistent. The position that the MR defends at the federal level is the same as that which our political groups defend at the level of the federated entities. We all know that, in 2003, following the arms sales file in Nepal, Parliament entrusted the Regions with jurisdiction over arms export licences. The Regions therefore decide on this matter. Mr Flahaux has just reminded him of the issue of the export of arms to Israel. The federal government retains only the sale of surplus military equipment from National Defence or the police. In addition, Foreign Affairs regularly gives regional executives – and this is foreseen in the licensing process – a full overview of the human rights situation in countries and regions where arms are being exported. On this basis, the said Regions shall take their decisions on whether or not to grant export licences. On this point, therefore, it is the Regions which are competent and which have to take the decisions they take. The economic and political costs of these trade relations must also be borne by the Regions. If one or more regions wish to export arms to Saudi Arabia, they must bear the political consequences. If that is the choice of your political party, Mrs Grovonius, then the latter must bear the political consequences. We must not try here to turn around the pot with circumvolutions and by making a kind of exercise of balance which, at the end, becomes magic or even witchcraft. You said the Walloon Region was the most progressive in this area, because the Walloon executive demanded an embargo and the federal government was not following. You have really surprised me, because what you have said is totally the opposite of what is happening today in the public sitting and what is happening in the work that the majority have carried out in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u97	I would like to turn to a point I have already made to Mr Miller and to the other groups of the majority. Just tell me, Mr Miller, that you are ready to take this text and table it at the level of the Walloon Parliament. I don't see any difficulty. It surprises me, however, that there is no trace in the Walloon Parliament of a text tabled by the MR containing the requests contained in the text we are discussing today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u98	Mrs Grovonius, I will answer you very wisely and very calmly. Earlier, I said that you were making balancing numbers that approached magic, or even witchcraft. And I keep my words. You blame me and you blame the Walloon Parliament's MR Group for not having yet tabled a text on what we are debating today. At the federal level, we are busy working on a text and on the approval of an extremely important motion for a resolution, which concerns our level of responsibility and the defence of human rights. This is where the federal government can deliver its opinion, and it communicates this opinion to the political groups. I have just said that the position of the MR is consistent and that we are defending it both in the Federal and the Regions. I'm just answering that so I don't start a little too hard dialogue with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u99	I do not think that the question of Saudi Arabia has suddenly emerged in the last four weeks. Mr Miller, I repeat what I have just said and what I have said in my speech: this text, contrary to what you are saying, contains a series of requests addressed to the regions. It is for this reason that we abstain from a whole series of elements contained in this text. As we say from the outset, we refrain from these requests because it is unnecessary to ask the federal government to do things that fall outside its jurisdiction. On the other hand, Mr Miller, the political group MR could quite directly bring these requests in a motion for a resolution to the Walloon Parliament. The N-VA, or other Flemish parties, could do so in the Flemish Parliament. I do not understand why you are not doing this; unless, of course, you want to avoid making a request to the Walloon Parliament, clearly identified as an MR request, which clearly affects Walloon workers. You're telling me that's not the case: so much the better. I'm reassured. Nevertheless, you allow me to point out what I consider to be a form of hypocrisy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u100	Mr Flahaux, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u101	Mr Flahaux, I will answer, if I may. First of all, I repeat a third time what I have already said twice. Ma'am, you reverse the timeline. From what we are debating today, you tell us that we have not submitted a text to the Walloon Region. I said that coherence would be complete at the level of the MR Group, whether it is here at the federal level or in the Walloon Region. Let things take their course. We are currently discussing an extremely important text. I hope what I'm saying is a little demonstration. We will await the Minister's answers, in particular to the question posed by our excellent colleague, Mr Dallemagne. Mrs Grovonius, you say: "You suddenly discovered the problem of Saudi Arabia. That's how it came." I refer to the very text of our colleagues Ecolo-Groen. In the motion for a resolution tabled, it is stated "on December 10, 2015,...". I look behind you and see the calendar that shows June 8, 2017. In 2015, our Foreign Minister, Didier Reynders, made the following statement: "All regions must ask themselves whether it is still appropriate to export arms to Saudi Arabia. I invite the Regions to talk about it." It was in December 2015. So stop coming and saying that we discovered the problem all of a sudden! With jurisdiction in the Regions, the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Reynders, said to the Regions: "Warning! There is a problem with human rights." He said it in December 2015 and asked the Regions to discuss it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u102	In the wake of this courageous position of your minister, as a political group present in the Walloon Parliament, you could have, as early as December 2015,...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u103	Mrs Grovonius, you will try several times... We're gonna try not to be cruel. I understand the difficulty...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u104	Mr Miller, you will have the floor in a few moments.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u105	Mr. Miller, you're calling me. I wish I could answer you. You are redoing the timetable and I tell you that you, as the MR, could have tabled a text at the level of the Walloon Parliament for a long time. And you confirm it here again. Why, as early as December 2015, did you not support your federal minister's courageous stance, which calls on federal entities to take action? Why did you not support this with all the strength of your political group in the Walloon Parliament by tabling a text defending this position? You could've done it a long time ago. On the other hand, Mr Miller, since we are discussing federal jurisdiction above all here, why does the majority reject a socialist proposal for a federal jurisdiction in the field of arms, namely the control of the resale of weapons by the police? Why does the majority refuse to support a text specifically dealing with a federal matter? That's what I want to point at, Mr. Miller. We're here at the federal level. Let's discuss and vote on elements of federal jurisdiction. Let us leave to the regional level the things that belong to this level. In this context, let us be consistent!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u106	I'm going to answer you, but I'm not going to be cruel, because I realize that the speech you're holding should not be easy to make. What you are busy saying is that an opposition group might not have done its job in the Walloon Region. Okay, but the problem isn't that one, Mrs. Grovonius. The problem is that you belong to a party that has been constantly sending weapons to a country that, for many years, has violated human rights continuously and everywhere. So, Mrs Grovonius, you are calling for consistency, but where is it when Mr Magnette says, "No apples for Canada, but yes to weapons for Saudi Arabia"? Where is your consistency? Let's stay on the subject. You say that we are saying things to the Walloon Region, but we would not have the right to say them. That's totally wrong! It is the federal government's responsibility to say what is happening to the human rights situation. It is the federal responsibility, in the discussion with the Regions, to draw attention to a human rights problem. That is what we are doing, and that is what the federal minister's services have done all the time. But you and the Region have nevertheless decided, despite all the opinions that have been given by the federal government, to continue arms exports. Just assume and don't try to turn around the pot by saying it's us who didn't do some things.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u107	After that, I'm done! I think other colleagues would like to speak, but it is true that it is a bit irritating to be taught this way. We cannot remain silent in the face of the considerations that are now presented by the MR. I just wanted to put things in context because, moreover, I heard figures that were quoted and that do not fully reflect reality. As I have said since the beginning, so much on principle, we all agree, both on the modalities and on how to achieve this objective, which means that weapons will no longer be sold to Saudi Arabia, there are divergent views. I remind you, ours is this European embargo. I would like to support this by the fact that Wallonia accounts for only 2.95% of the arms exports of the European total. That is all I will say in response to your remarks, Mr. Miller, to put things in context and to support our position from the beginning, which has not varied from one iota to another, unlike yours, which constantly varies according to the levels of power you find yourself in and the hazards of history or the circumstances that have been those of the past few months.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u108	Having said that, I'll just give you one more item and then I'll continue my presentation. Mrs Grovonius, I never said that it was Wallonia alone that supplied weapons to Saudi Arabia. I simply said that, since the PS led the Walloon Region - and in my opinion, it has been a long time - since, in any case, the regionalization of jurisdiction, the PS has never stopped a single licence to export weapons to Saudi Arabia. That's all I said. I maintain that this is the role of the federal government. That's why we're talking about it. Because, ladies and gentlemen, we would not even talk about it if competence were purely regionalised; we would not have this debate. It is expected that the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs will inform the Regions of the state of the human rights and freedoms situation in these countries, when there is a reflection on whether or not to grant a licence. So, I was saying, that the Regions should take over. If, on the contrary, one or more of the Regions wants a Belgian arms embargo in Saudi Arabia, they do so; they discuss each other and then transfer the decision to the Minister of Foreign Affairs unanimously, and that will be the position that will be taken. If one or more regions want the European Union, the OSCE or the United Nations to impose an embargo on arms sales in Saudi Arabia, it depends once again on the regions. The Regions can make this known to the federal government and this will be the appropriate position. In managing this issue, we must respect the sharing of competences within our federal state. There is politics, of course, and we realize that it is not easy for everyone. However, depending on the circumstances or levels of power, the reality should not be changed. There's a right. This debate must be held in parliaments and regional governments. And then, Mrs Grovonius, at last I am not going to speak to you because you are still going to answer me! I'm talking to everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, from the very beginning of committee work, when - and I thank them - the authors of the Ecolo-Groen motion for a resolution tabled their proposal, Mr Flahaux and I, in committee, immediately expressed our interest in the subject by asking for an opinion from the Regions. Indeed, without the opinion of the Regions, we cannot move forward. Ladies and gentlemen, I have already repeated this many times in this forum, I have a certain pride in being a Walloon regionalist, but still! The response of the Flemish Region is complete and well structured. For the response of the Walloon Parliament, Mr André Antoine, on such an important issue, refers to an article of the Rules of Procedure. He says, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Done. It's still shameful! It is shameful that on such an important subject there is such a difference. And this difference is all the more shameful, Mrs Grovonius, ladies and gentlemen, that there is in Wallonia, given the competence in the field of arms exports, an organization called the GRIP. In fact, the GRIP is partly subsidized by the Walloon Region. What did the GRIP do about this? He organized discussions. The Director of GRIP, a reference in this area, tells us: "It should be stressed that, following the regionalisation of the competence of arms exports, governments and regional parliamentarians have become important players in foreign policy. It is therefore essential that they are well aware of the changing global context in this field in order to contribute to improving the control of the arms trade and to properly assess the consequences of decisions that can be taken." Do you realize? It is a specialist who declares it and the Walloon Parliament replies: "There is a Rule X of the Rules of Procedure...". Finished and we don't talk about it anymore! That is what we regret. In committee, we also regretted the lack of dialogue with the Regions. The MR will remain consistent. We have a position and we will defend it. One point in the Ecolo-Groen motion for a resolution was the problem of the financing of mosques in Belgium and the formation of imams. We unanimously decided not to short-circuit the work of the Attentats Committee of Inquiry. I will briefly recall one extremely important aspect on which my colleague, Mr Dallemagne, has made a great deal of emphasis in committee: the financing of places of worship internally or externally is extremely important to us. The formation of preachers and imams as well. The issues of Salafism, Radicalism and the role played by Saudi Arabia in us and in other European countries will require debate at the outset of our fundamental values. We will have to challenge this kind of influence. We will have to hold a debate as soon as the committee report is made public. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister, the Reform Movement and the majority in the Committee on Foreign Affairs wanted to work on this proposal from the ranks of the opposition Ecolo-Groen, for which I thank them. This is evidence of a certain willingness to open up and political inclusion that has marked all of our work but not for everyone. Foreign Minister's note has spoken at length on this subject and - that is true, I acknowledged in committee when we addressed the subject - Minister Reynders' position represents a tremendous opportunity to have this debate finally, a debate of geopolitical, economic and ethical importance, not least. Today, we adopt this motion for a resolution and support the government's willingness to maintain a critical dialogue with Saudi Arabia. It is essential and must continue on major international and human rights issues. As far as trade relations are concerned, we respect the sharing of competences within our federal state. We must lead the debate where it is legally relevant. The issue of dual-use property was discussed. My excellent colleague Flahaux has responded abundantly, as have the Ecolo colleagues. I come back briefly, not to revive the substance of the discussion, but because you mentioned something inexact, Mrs Grovonius. And I'm really talking to you. You said that it had been so difficult to obtain a rating from the Chamber's legal services. That's totally wrong. I was there. You turned to the chairman of the committee and asked him if we could get it. You looked at me. I said yes. The Chair did the same immediately, as did the other members. This note was available in an instant. So, don't come to tell me that you had to roll mechanics, scream, scream, fight, etc., to get it! The note in question is very clear, ladies and gentlemen. On the first page, it states: "We assume that the expression 'export, technology and military equipment records' in the list referred to in the articles of the heading to which we refer also refers refers to dual-use goods". It was the services of the House that gave us this note. Therefore, your two amendments, Mrs Grovonius, are unnecessary. Indeed, you take up some of the comments that have been added to this basic statement. We are sticking to an extremely important text, which will probably gather a lot of votes in this House. I am deeply saddened to hear that the Socialist Party, which is really a party that likes to give lessons, recognize it - "no apples in Canada", for example - will not vote for it. How will you explain it and claim that you have ethical values or that, for you, what matters is the defence of human rights? Mr President, we call on the regions to be coherent and to show political maturity. Whether it is in Wallonia, Flanders or Brussels, we fully support the approach taken by our Foreign Minister for the government, on the basis of the motion for a resolution tabled by our colleagues Ecolo. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u109	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our group has made no secret in the discussions in committee that we support all the provisions of this resolution. But we believe that it can be clearer and stronger. More clearly, at points 4, 9 and 10, where it was about dual use. I have the report with me. The first version presented to us was: military goods and equipment useful for military use. The amendments tabled by myself and other fellow Members asked whether these goods, useful for military use, were concerned with dual use. There was no response from the majority. The majority then changed its text to military goods and technologies. Again, the question arose, both from various colleagues and myself, whether this includes dual use. Once again, we did not get a clear response from the majority. In the end, the majority has come up with the text before us today. It is not necessary to sit in Parliament for long to understand that when an amendment is on the table that says that the embargo referred to in the resolution marks military and dual-use goods, but if the words dual-use are not included, there is some suspicion. Especially since the text that was finally proposed to us, which is still in the resolution, refers to a European text which no longer exists. It was dissolved in 2009. The majority of my fellow Members are right to say that the legal service draws the conclusion from the text: we believe that the intention of the proposers is to fish dual-use goods as well. That's right, that's what the report says. However, the legal service also proposes that, for the sake of clarity and comprehension, we should propose a different text, a text which refers to the European legislation currently in force. I note that the majority does not want that. I now turn to the Dutch-speaking Members. In the Flemish Parliament the discussion is closely monitored. Jan Peumans, the President of the Flemish Parliament, has asked for an opinion from the Flemish Peace Institute. The Flemish Peace Institute is generally accepted in Flanders for its expertise in this field. I read what is in the advice of the Flemish Peace Institute. It says, and I quote: "There is uncertainty about the material scope of this arms embargo. This ambiguity has a direct impact on the policies of the regional authorities and therefore also on the Flemish government and the Flemish Parliament. The Flemish Peace Institute advises the MPs of the Chamber to remove the current ambiguity in the present resolution on the material scope of the arms embargo by making one of the following adjustments, independently of the objectives they pursue. It also contains the proposal made by our legal service. Colleagues, Mr Peter De Roover; I am now asking the largest Flemish group. For me, the text of this resolution which we shall adopt shortly will also be adopted by my group, but I am not giving it to you now. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to ask you whether it is your interpretation of the resolution that it also includes dual-use goods. I ask you as a colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u110	I have heard several statements here, Mr Van der Maelen. You've read what's in the opinion. That's the answer to your question, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u111	So the answer is yes. Can you tell me that?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u112	The day I become a minister, you can ask me questions. That is not the case today. I told you that the text, as you did and on request, is at the service...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u113	You're not gonna get a yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u114	Again, I will not let you dictate what I should or should not say.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u115	I'm not dictating anything, I'm just asking a question. Yes or no?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u116	Mr Van der Maelen, if you can read, read. If you can't read, stop your speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u117	Colleagues from CD&V and Open Vld, we will adopt this resolution shortly, and my group will do the same. It is not a fantasy of mine, but its own legal service says: "The text would gain in comprehension and clarity (...)" Then follows their proposal, which you do not want. I ask for that clarity and that comprehensibility. Colleagues of CD&V, does this embargo include dual-use goods in your head?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u118	We're on the same wavelength as N-VA. That's a new fact. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u119	What about the colleagues from Open Vld? (...): Also on the same line.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u120	Also on the same wavelength. The question is, if we adopt the resolution in the near future, whether this means, in your view, that the embargo also applies to dual-use goods. Now I ask the colleagues of MR. If we adopt this resolution, will it include dual-use goods? (...) : Oui.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u121	We have a yes and three strangers. There's clarity. The Foreign Minister's Party has spoken, and that means that the resolution will be interpreted and applied in this way by the Foreign Minister. We know him well enough for that. He always listens to his group.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u122	Mr President, I find it a pity that our colleagues in the CD&V, the N-VA and the Open Vld did not consider it necessary to clarify their views completely. I appreciate the statement made by our colleagues in the MR. I heard Benoit Hellings' interpretation and explanation. On such an important and fundamental question, we would have preferred to have something other than Normand's answer. I am sticking to the legal services of the House, and I am sticking to the MR's explanation. I think we would have gained, in the interests of this debate, rather than systematically sending ourselves the sparadrap or the hot potato, that what our legal services and the MR have said should be explicitly taken up by all the parties of the majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u123	Mr President, I will conclude. I said that the resolution could have been clearer and I also said that it could have been stronger. In order to prevent the fate of the resolution before us from being the same as the fate of the many other resolutions we are voting for, namely that, once they have been approved, little or no more talk is being made about it, we in committee had tabled an amendment which we are now retabled in plenary. In this text, we ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs to submit to the Chamber every year a report containing, first, a general evaluation of the Foreign Affairs Office on the evolution of human rights in Saudi Arabia and, second, an overview of the positions taken by Belgian diplomacy and the Minister for Foreign Affairs in bilateral contacts and multilateral organisations, each time the human rights situation in Saudi Arabia is discussed. Should that amendment be accepted, we are sure that in 2018, on the basis of a report by the Foreign Affairs Council, a thorough debate on the human rights situation in Saudi Arabia would be possible, and we could draw policy conclusions from that. I regret that our amendment was rejected in committee. In my view, accepting it would make it clear that we do not regard the resolution before us as the many other resolutions that are being adopted, that the Chamber insists that the government should draw up a report and that the Chamber should commit itself to follow up those resolutions. I continue to hope that our amendment will be adopted shortly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u124	Mr Van der Maelen, Mr De Vriendt wishes to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u125	Mr van der Maelen, first of all I welcome the support of the sp.a Group for the resolution. That was not yet the case in committee. At that time, the sp.a and the PS abstained, which is why there has been some doubt about the final voting behaviour in this plenary, but that will be positive and that is a good thing. I think you are a little scornful about the breakthrough that this resolution represents in the revision of our relations with Saudi Arabia. Firstly, the opinion of the Legal Service of the Chamber is very clear. Even without this debate, the Court's legal service says that although the text could gain clarity, there is indeed an arms embargo on dual-use goods. That's literally written in black and white on paper. I have just accused the PS of having a false debate, in order not to allow the arms embargo to apply to our Belgian arms industry. I do not blame you for that, for the sake of clarity, because I know that you are in favour of a Belgian arms embargo, but do not underestimate the breakthrough of this resolution in a number of other areas. I can't hear you say anything about that. If this resolution is adopted, Mr Van der Maelen, it will no longer be possible for the Credendo Group, Delcredere, to ensure arms exports to Saudi Arabia. Nor will it be possible for our defence attachés to maintain the commercial contacts between our arms industry and the customers in Saudi Arabia. We are also evolving towards a fundamental debate on our strategic vision towards Saudi Arabia. This debate, which will be held in the coming months, will take a little more time. I am thinking, for example, of selling military equipment. You know that the DOD occasionally sells military equipment to interested countries. Well, we'll decide here that Saudi Arabia can't do this anymore. By this I mean that this is a review; this is a breakthrough in our attitude towards that country. I'm sorry you don't acknowledge that. The debate has clearly accelerated as a result of our country's voting behaviour in front of Saudi Arabia's seat in the UN Women's Rights Commission. Thanks to this debate and the public indignation, we have been able to achieve a number of things here, which, frankly, we had not thought. You probably don't either, but it's there. It is the result of a compromise, of cooperation across party boundaries, between majority and opposition. You should actually welcome this. Could this go on? Yes. Could this be any clearer? Yes. But we have achieved a great deal here. I agree with your last point, in particular that it has yet to be implemented. This is not in our hands, it is in the government's hands and, first and foremost, it is in the foreign minister's hands. But Parliament does not need your amendment to be a watchdog in that process. It is sufficient, after a certain period of time, to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs about the implementation of this resolution. It's as simple as that. We have almost every week the opportunity to question the government. You can be suspicious of this, and I am even right, but it is up to Parliament to go along with the line we have now drawn with this resolution. Then it is not only a matter of the opposition MEPs but also of the majority members to question the minister on this matter. If we are fundamental, if we are satisfied with the outcome of our process, then we are going to do so. I see colleagues from the majority nodding. We're gonna do that, and you can do that. Be positive. We have taken an important first step towards a different policy towards Saudi Arabia. This is now possible with this text. And avant! Let us move forward together.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u126	Ladies and gentlemen, it may have been a brief moment of inattention from Mr De Vriendt, but I did not begin my speech by repeating the story I have already heard here and that we have been heard extensively in committee. I have said that we agree with all the points in the resolution, even more so, that we are happy about it. There was one point of dispute, which was the reason for the abstention, namely the scope. And in that context, I find that I was right to doubt. Our own legal service is proposing a different text from that which we are going to approve. Same for the Flemish Peace Institute, which also proposes another text. However, I have the commitment of my fellow MEPs from the MR. I hope that the Minister will support this commitment in the near future. Dual use is therefore endorsed. Well, I would like to be angry, should I say that we will not approve the resolution because our amendment was not approved. Colleague, I welcome the resolution, but I am sitting here a little longer. I may know governments and foreign ministers a little better than you do. I think trust is good, but control even better. We would have a much stronger control over the fate of this resolution if we all, together, were to adopt the resolution in almost every step of the way. The government would have to report to us every year on the evolution of human rights in Saudi Arabia and on the positions adopted by our Belgian diplomacy on the international scene. You're confident. I hope this trust isn't embarrassed. If it gets embarrassed, you'll find me on your side. If this trust is not betrayed, I will be happy to participate fully in the regular evaluation of the human rights situation in Saudi Arabia. Now I must leave you because I have a sudden, urgent obligation outside.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u127	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, everyone knows what has been the catalyst of this debate and the resolution that will be adopted today. That catalyst was the approval of our country to allow Saudi Arabia to become a member of the UN Commission on Women's Status. We all know, of course, that this catalyst came after a certain situation in the country itself, a country where human rights are being violated every day. In Saudi Arabia, women cannot perform a job, they cannot receive training, they cannot undergo medical procedures without the permission or guidance of their husbands, you name it. My colleague Els Van Hoof put it literally in plenary a few weeks ago: "A dog has more rights in our country than a woman in Saudi Arabia." That is not the only violation of human rights in Saudi Arabia. The death penalty is still being applied in the country. It is even the country that is most active in that area. Last year, for example, 154 people were executed. Religious minorities also have much less rights than in many other countries. There is limited freedom of expression for human rights defenders and civil society. Saudi Arabia does not take it very closely with human rights beyond its borders either. The UN estimates that in Yemen, a country where there is a military conflict, between 8 000 and 10 000 civilian casualties were caused by Saudi missions. In addition, there is also the story of the very conservative Islam actively supported by Saudi Arabia. Wahabism is directly opposed to our values and the values that our country and the European Union are promoting. This attitude of Saudi Arabia in various areas is asking us today to critically examine and re-evaluate our foreign policy towards the country. However, we must strive for a balanced attitude between, on the one hand, safeguarding our interests and our security and, on the other hand, promoting our values in the world. Anyone who wants to take human rights into account and who wants to be the sole guide in his economic relations will, of course, have to stop economic relations with many countries. In the story of Saudi Arabia, of course, we cannot simply proceed to the order of the day and business as usual. My group therefore believes that a number of elements in our foreign policy with regard to Saudi Arabia need to be changed, so that we can indeed, as the resolution proposes today, incorporate a number of elements which will change our relationship with the country. There are, therefore, a number of points that we can very strongly endorse, such as the cessation of economic missions to Saudi Arabia, the call to stop supplying arms to the country, the inclusion of a enforceable human rights clause, the desirability of concluding a double taxation treaty, the defence attaché who is no longer allowed to promote commercial contacts and, of course, that human rights should remain a priority in our foreign policy, in particular that we should continue to pay attention to the abolition of the death penalty and the improvement of women's rights. However, we must, of course, also pay attention to isolation in the debate. Our group is therefore not in favour of a complete freeze on our relations with Saudi Arabia. This would only mean that Belgium would no longer have any leverage to address the situation in Saudi Arabia. We therefore choose to work with targeted actions, such as, for example, the cessation of economic missions and arms exports. In addition, we must prevent Saudi Arabia from being banned from bilateral and multilateral fora in our policies. It is precisely in those forums that dialogue remains possible, including on difficult issues such as human rights in Saudi Arabia. If a country is excluded from these forums, as has been the case with Iran, for example, in the past, this will only lead to the human rights situation becoming even more difficult, which we must avoid. The fact that Saudi Arabia has just become a member of the United Nations Commission on Women's Status should therefore be used to raise equal rights between women and men with even more rigour and conviction. In isolation, our group sees no solution to progress. In isolation, a country can no longer be called upon to improve. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, our group would like to begin by thanking the authors of the resolution before us. A breakthrough has indeed been made and important steps have been taken in the economic relations we will have with the country in the future. Our group will, of course, support the resolution before us.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u128	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my group too would like to thank the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats for the merit of putting this resolution on the agenda. On the basis of their original text, we have come to the present resolution, which, according to our group, is a strong incentive to develop a new Belgian strategy vis-à-vis Saudi Arabia. It is clear that we need such a new strategy. With a country that violates human rights on a large scale, there can be no business as usual anymore. For us, following matters are important in this resolution. Firstly, the arms trade to Saudi Arabia is not acceptable to us. This must stop as soon as possible, first from Belgium and also as soon as possible from the EU and the UN. We are looking urgently at the regions, because they are responsible for this matter, especially the Walloon Region, which is hiding behind the absence of a European embargo. In Flanders they do work on it by making an on hold list on a decreed basis on which we can place Saudi Arabia. We cannot suspend all trade with Saudi Arabia. This would affect companies which had nothing to do with the violation of human rights. Trade policy is also an exclusive European competence. We can stop organizing the economic trade missions ourselves. Free trade can be used positively to promote human rights if we put strong and suspensive human rights clauses into European free trade agreements. We tabled an amendment to this effect. Mordicus refusing to talk about such a treaty, as was originally stated in the resolution, will not help anyone. The Belgian diplomats must make an extra effort within the UN to put international pressure on Saudi Arabia to improve its human rights policy on a structural basis. We also regret the vote that took place in the Committee on Women's Status. We believe that we should rectify this by doing twice as much work in that committee for human rights in that country. In the future, of course, we will also have to talk about closer involvement of Parliament in our multilateral diplomacy and Belgian human rights policy. However, this is something for the broader discussion that will soon be held with Minister Reynders. Let us now focus on this resolution and the specific case of Saudi Arabia. Finally, I regret that the sp.a. and the PS have been hiding in committee behind a technical discussion on whether or not dual-use goods are included in this resolution. It is particularly unfortunate that the sp.a used this to support their comrades of the PS in their opposition to a stop to the arms trade with that country. That was the reality in committee. With this, you were on the wrong side of history. I am pleased to have just heard from your colleague, Mr Van der Maelen, that this has been made clear by, among other things, the legal advice of the Chamber and that the sp.a Group will vote in favour. For us, however, it is clear enough. The legal department is clear. The Flemish Peace Institute says that the current wording can refer either to all dual-use goods, or to those dual-use goods that can be used for military purposes. I believe that the government of this country must then choose which interpretation seems the most feasible to defend. However, ladies and gentlemen, no one is saying that dual use would not be included. That is the end of the matter for my group. Finally, I would like to call on the colleagues from the sp.a to have a word with the colleagues from the PS. Ladies and gentlemen of the PS, you are living a difficult day both in Parliament and in the city of Brussels. There is still an opportunity to conclude this day, namely by adopting this resolution, ladies and gentlemen of the PS. It would be a strong signal from your group that you approve of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u129	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we, with the Chamber, will normally adopt the present motion for a resolution by a fairly large majority. The proposal was tabled by my group to revise Belgian policy towards Saudi Arabia. If we approve the text and the Foreign Minister implements its provisions, our relations with Saudi Arabia will change radically. There can then finally be a stricter, more critical and more ethical policy towards that country. It depends, of course, on that, and we should not lose sight of that. Mr De Roover said that perhaps we should not add an extra piece of paper to the paper mountain to resolutions that lie in some cellar in the Chamber to collect dust. But of course that is up to us, it is up to Members of Parliament to monitor the implementation of resolutions across party boundaries. We will and must do the same. We have been able to work together in a good atmosphere and we have achieved a result that we can be proud of. We therefore welcome the fact that the majority supported our initiative and wished to take part in the reflection on this issue. I would like to thank the members of the Committee on External Relations of CD&V, Open Vld, N-VA and MR for that. The ball was, of course, rolling firmly in response to the voting behaviour of our country for Saudi Arabia in the UN Women's Rights Commission of ECOSOC. That vote took place on 22 April. Questions were asked about this in Parliament rather soon afterwards. I myself asked the Minister how our country voted. The Minister remembers that question very well. It turned out quite quickly that our country had voted for Saudi Arabia, which of course cannot be explained. This is a complete aberration given our country's commitment to human rights and women's rights in particular. It's been a little difficult. Where was the cause of the vote? Was this the cause of our diplomacy or of a number of officials from the Foreign Affairs Department? Following a number of e-mails, which our group has brought to light, it was clear that the government gave the green light for our country's positive voting behaviour. The ball was really rolling back then. That is all the more reason for changing attitudes and fundamentally reviewing relations and politics with Saudi Arabia. Why is that necessary, fellow Members? Look at the current situation and you will immediately know why it is necessary. Saudi Arabia plays a negative role in a number of conflicts in the Middle East, including Syria. Saudi Arabia provides indirect support to extremist groups. We also see that tensions with Iran are being rushed unnecessarily. Saudi Arabia is also largely responsible for the thousands of civilian deaths in the Yemeni conflict, which started in 2015. With weapons purchased by Saudi Arabia in countries such as the United States and the United Kingdom, and also in Europe in general, citizens are being bombed there. That should be enough to stop exporting arms to that country. Among other things, it was that war, co-fired by Saudi Arabia, that 12 million people were threatened by famine in Yemen. The images and photos we see in the news are horrible. The famine in that part of the world has been one of the biggest humanitarian disasters since the Second World War. This is recognised by human rights organisations, by NGOs, by aid organisations. We must do everything we can to alleviate this situation and to counter Saudi Arabia's role there. 70% of European arms exports to Saudi Arabia come from our country, Belgium, largely from the Walloon arms industry. The report on Saudi Arabia's human rights remains sad. Saudi Arabia should be proud to carry out the third highest number of executions in the world, after China and Iran. Recently, at the end of last month, 14 Shiite opponents were sentenced to death in Saudi Arabia, after a mock trial and using the excuse of terrorism, of course. That excuse is frequently invoked by a number of dictatorial regimes to condemn people after false trials, people who merely protested against those dictatorial regimes. There are also women's rights. Women in Saudi Arabia For example, it is about the decision to study, to perform a job and to marry. Women are not allowed to drive in Saudi Arabia either. Another element that we should reflect on is that Saudi Arabia plays a role in the spread of wahabism, even in Europe, to the west of Europe, to our mosques. The necessary revision of our relations with Saudi Arabia is in the interests of stability in the Middle East, in the interests of human rights and women's rights, as well as in our own interests. What are the basic elements, the key elements of this resolution proposal? In the text, we call on the regions to stop exporting arms to Saudi Arabia. That's important. It has just been outlined that the Walloon arms industry actually gets the bulk of European arms exports to Saudi Arabia. Furthermore, the Credendo Group, former Delcredere, will no longer be allowed to insure arms exports to Saudi Arabia. That is a very important step, ladies and gentlemen, because that is still happening today. Today, the state agency Delcredere-Credendo still guarantees that risky export. Furthermore, the federal government also withdraws from all trade missions to Saudi Arabia. In the recent past, there have been three: 2014, 2009 and 1993. The federal government, which normally has to coordinate those trade missions, will no longer do so after we have approved the motion for a resolution here today with the Chamber. Also, our country's defence attachés operating in connection with Saudi Arabia will no longer be allowed to ensure commercial contacts between our arms companies and Saudi Arabia's customer. They will do so today, as Minister Vandeput and Minister De Crem have admitted. Belgium will also put pressure on Saudi Arabia to better respect human rights and ratify the relevant conventions to that effect. The proposal also calls on our country to develop a new strategy towards Saudi Arabia at diplomatic, military, economic and commercial level and on our energy dependence on Saudi Arabia. In addition, after today's vote, it will no longer be possible for Belgium to sell military equipment to Saudi Arabia. Defense does indeed still sell military equipment to third countries quite regularly. Saudi Arabia won't be able to do that anymore. In conclusion, given the key elements of the resolution proposal, this is the kind of resolution that human rights organisations and NGOs in our country have been waiting for years. Today we can take that important step. It is a first step towards a different foreign policy towards Saudi Arabia. The call in the text for an arms embargo and the ban on Delcredere to ensure arms exports to Saudi Arabia also applies to so-called dual-use goods. We have already debated it, but the text refers quite explicitly on several occasions to Article 6 of the Common Position of 8 December 2008, No. 944. That Article refers to a list of dual-use goods. That list shall be kept permanently up-to-date. The opinion of the Court's Legal Service also confirms this. The service writes: "The legal service concludes that the phrase "military goods and technology export files" referred to in the list referred to in Articles 6 and 12 of Common Position No. 944 of 8 December 2008 As my colleague Benoit Hellings has just said, the European Parliament, including the Socialist Group, has agreed to an arms embargo at European level and has also referred to the same article and thus to the same list of dual-use goods. I think we are clear in our text. Moreover, we do not have a message of false debates, particularly by Members of the Socialist Party, in order to safeguard Belgian arms exports to a country such as Saudi Arabia. That will be the shame of knowing what is happening to weapons in Saudi Arabia if we know that it is firing and bombing the citizens of Yemen right now. I'm rounding up. We are satisfied with the broad support for our motion for a resolution, and we dare to hope that it is a precedent to make human rights and ethics play a greater role in our foreign policy and finally to work towards a more self-conscious attitude on the part of our country in foreign policy. We're sticking our necks out with this. We will change things, we are not conservative, but innovative and progressive. We're moaning at the status quo, and that's good. We can also do that in a number of other files. So let us not open the umbrella to the European level, as the PS wants when it comes to arms exports, but let us try in a reasonable, non-naïve and decisive way to introduce more ethics and human rights into our foreign policy. The text before us is a powerful first step in this direction. The resolution must be implemented by the government. We will play our role as a watchdog, so that that is the case effectively. I would like to thank all my fellow Members who have made this initiative possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u130	Mr President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, Saudi Arabia is the champion of all categories of human rights violations. A series of indicators show this and my colleagues have repeated some absolutely appalling figures in this area. I think it is an out-of-class country in terms of violations of women's rights. Saudi Arabia can be described as an open-air prison for women. They are fully placed under guardianship. They do not have the same rights as men in a wide range of areas, including marriage, mobility and family law. There is a whole series of subjects in which they are totally under guardianship. It's unbearable. Secondly, and you will not be surprised that I mention it because I come back very often on this subject, Saudi Arabia is not only the worst country in terms of human rights, but it is also a country that has clearly threatened international stability for decades. I insist on that because there is little talk about it in the resolution, not to say at all. It must also encourage us to act firmly towards that country. Thanks to the oil manna, this country has developed, notably with the help of instruments such as the World Islamic League, a strategy for the expansion of Wahhabism and Salafism, a strategy for the antagonization of societies, be it Muslim societies or our own societies. And we know how clearly this is a threat to social cohesion, to living together, to the future of social stability in Belgium. It is also one of the elements for which we believe that we must act firmly with regard to Saudi Arabia. That is why we voted and we will vote in favour of this motion for a resolution. Indeed, we believe that the latter is a clear message, an important step forward in our country's reflection on Saudi Arabia and on relations that must be maintained or no longer maintained with that country, which poses this double and serious problem with regard to the standards and values that we are defending here in Europe, but which many other countries are also trying to defend. Even if we wish to support this motion for a resolution, which, as I have just said, is a step forward, we are not totally fooled by the small game that has been played in our Parliament in recent weeks. I would like to congratulate our colleague, Benoit Hellings, who has tabled the text under consideration. But we must be on the right side; it is likely that this motion for a resolution would not have had such a favourable fate, as quickly as possible if Belgium had not had the disastrous vote in favour of Saudi Arabia's participation in the Commission on Women's Rights. As a result, a combination of circumstances has allowed your motion for a resolution, Mr Hellings, to move ahead at a time when it was slowly sinking into the ruts of procedures, questions, requests for opinions, etc. In any event, all of a sudden, this resolution was put back on the table by the majority. I will not go so far as to say that you have been instrumentalised by the majority, but it must be recognised that a combination of circumstances has encouraged the development of this motion for a resolution. I cannot help saying either that this motion for a resolution was used as a firewall by the majority, in any case, by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who was in very bad sheets. The Prime Minister himself said everything he thought about Belgium's disastrous vote at the UN. It is therefore a matter of not occulting the fact that, in a way, we have passed the hot potato, we have given the piece of sparadrap to others while our diplomacy has been pointed out. I would also like to take it as proof of this, of course, of the majority interest in Saudi Arabia that the first paragraph of our resolution, which in principle indicates the political scope given to the text and the subject matter, is the paragraph that I proposed two years ago in a resolution on Saudi Arabia. It is word for word the same text, which had been adopted by an immense majority of the House. This shows that not too much work has been done on the subject since then. Writing exactly the same thing two years later, with the same words, shows that the Foreign Minister has not – and this is an understatement – taken this subject with arms-on-body, holding session, to try to make sure that our relations with Saudi Arabia are substantially altered. I am pleased that a small reminder is being given and that, two years later, the same approach, the same initiatives, the same reflection are being proposed again. I hope that this time, as our colleague Dirk Van der Maelen has called for, we will regularly receive a progress report on the implementation of this paragraph from the Minister for Foreign Affairs. There is another element that I would like to stress, because it is not possible to miss. The resolution is above all firm and clear with regard to the competences of the federated entities. It is much less so in terms of the powers of the federal state. Very little has been said about our oil purchases in Saudi Arabia during these debates. I've been looking for the information. These purchases have declined since 1973, but they remain extremely substantial. Indeed, Saudi Arabia is our second largest supplier of oil! We buy no less than 8.5 million tons of oil per year. I tried to figure out how much money it was, but these numbers are hidden. So I calculated, taking the price of the barrel of oil, which is about $45. Every year, Belgian citizens pay to the Treasury of Saudi Arabia between 2 billion and 2.5 billion euros by purchasing from Saudi Arabia. And this is a federal jurisdiction: we could, in the law that governs our strategic stock of petroleum products, decide that we no longer supply to Saudi Arabia. I think that would be an important step. I ask the government to integrate this into the purchase of petroleum products. Let us be honest: as long as we continue to pour billions of euros, through the purchase of petroleum products, into the Saudi Treasury, Saudi Arabia will continue to have the means not only to obtain weapons wherever it wants, but also – it seems essential to remind us – to disrupt our social cohesion, to interfere in our internal affairs, to instrumentalise the Belgian Muslim population, to make this population more and more sensitive to the Wahhabi creed. There is, of course, an emergency. This important element is fundamentally lacking in the resolution that is on our table today. It seemed important to me to remind him. In conclusion, I would also like to say that we are not fooled by the small game that Saudi Arabia is playing today by pointing to Qatar's responsibility for spreading extremist ideas that could influence terrorism. This position of Saudi Arabia comes at a time when, in the United Kingdom, a British secret service report is being debated. The report clearly links Saudi Arabia to the spread of Wahhabism and terrorism, particularly in the United Kingdom. Ladies and gentlemen, a similar report exists in Belgium. This report, produced by OCAM less than three months ago, makes the same observation on the links between Saudi Arabia, the Great Mosque, the expansion of Wahhabism in Belgium and terrorism. Like the British report, this report by the OCAM has not been published. I'm asking him to be. Just as the British want to see this report published in the United Kingdom following the recent attacks, the Belgian population has the right to publish similar information in Belgium. It seemed to me very important to tell you. I would ask that the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice have this report published.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u131	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that it took six meetings of the Committee on External Relations to adopt this resolution. But she is! Mr Dallemagne, I am pleased to acknowledge that the circumstances and diplomatic blunder of a few weeks ago contributed to the adoption of this resolution. I recognize it, it is profoundly amended. But all democrats would find themselves growing by recognizing that part of a victory is also due to the circumstances and the work of colleagues, the majority and opposition combined. Today, by voting this resolution almost unanimously, as I understand it, our country poses a strong political act that is exactly the opposite of the one put by the President of the United States two weeks ago in Riyadh. It's important. This resolution has led to an unprecedented debate, both in its duration and in substance, on Saudi Arabia and its ties with it, which has also led to a debate in Belgian society. I am thinking of the various associations that have listened to us and long dreamed of leading this debate in civil society. That is what this resolution has enabled them to do. I will quickly return to the five main advances that this resolution is making. In point one, the majority agreed "to subject Belgium's diplomatic, military, economic, commercial and energy relations with Saudi Arabia to a thorough analysis". This means that every one of us in this Parliament now has a point of support to remind the federal government and the federated entities of our responsibility by saying, basically, that our report to Saudi Arabia must change profoundly. This is a real paradigm shift. Second, the majority accepted, and the House as a whole, the end of the assurance that, so far, the Ducroire (partly federal jurisdiction) offered Belgian companies exporting arms to Saudi Arabia. This is important because the Ducroire, which is the sole jurisdiction of Secretary of State De Crem - it is a pity that he is not there - is over. The federal jurisdiction (the Ducroire) to offer this ability to assure Belgian companies that export arms to Saudi Arabia is over. It's a real breakthrough. This means, therefore, that the federal government had jurisdiction over arms exports, since it physically allowed our companies to export them. It's over. I welcome the particularly serious parliamentary work on this subject that my colleague Mr. During these two years, De Vriendt provided transparency on these arms exports. A third point is that today the federal government will no longer cover the economic missions that the Regions have been carrying out in Saudi Arabia over the past five years. Of course, the federal has borne the prestige, yours, Minister of Foreign Affairs, but also the prestige of members of the royal family, especially Princess Astrid. It's over. The regions must now understand that they must no longer send ministers, trade ministers in particular, to that country. The fourth important point is that the federal government, our level of authority, which is why we have responsibilities, is putting an end to the negotiation of the tax treaties that were under negotiation. Finally, the fifth and most of us insist, in paragraph 9 of the resolution, that the federated entities no longer grant licences for the export of arms to Saudi Arabia. We are fully respectful of the firm, strict powers of the Regions, but we must also acknowledge – as the Foreign Minister is well aware – that a cooperation agreement of 2007, in particular Article 7, allows the Foreign Minister, who is aware of the geopolitical and humanitarian situation through our posts in these countries, to keep the Regions informed and to ask them, in view of this situation, to stop granting arms licences. There is this obvious role already mentioned by several colleagues, this troubled role played by Saudi Arabia. I would like to quote the Algerian writer Kamel Daoud who, in the aftermath of the November 13 attacks in Paris, wrote a forum that was published in the New York Times: "Daech has a mother: the invasion of Iraq by the United States. But he also has a father: Saudi Arabia and its ideological industry. While Western intervention has given reasons to the desperate people in the Arab world, the Saudi Kingdom has given them beliefs and convictions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u132	President: André Frédéric, Vice-President. If you don't understand that, you lose the war, even if you win battles. They will kill jihadists, but others will be born to the next generations, fed from the same books." It is important here to recognize the role of Saudi Arabia in the formation of a radical Islam that is now tragically embodied by the Islamic State. I would like to conclude with a much broader reflection. The main reason why we ecologists have entered politics is that we are less dependent on fossil fuels. Let us now realize that we will be able to take a permanent view of this problematic country, dangerous, violent, discriminating when we are no longer dependent on the hydrocarbons it sells to us, or in any case much less. Energy independence is also a political independence, and that is what we will try to achieve. In any case, count on the environmentalists to get there.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u133	Mr President, it is good that this resolution is now before us and, as far as this plan is concerned, Saudi Arabia is being called into order on women's rights. It has already been made clear here by several speakers that Saudi Arabia is an island of Islam, where camels are treated better than women. Several speakers have already referred to the fact that a woman cannot go there without the permission of a male guardian: they cannot drive or even walk down the street without covering their hair and their bodies completely. I will not repeat all the arguments on the violation of women's rights, on the massive violation of human rights in general, on the arms trade, which was rightly cited today,............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Not because they would be unimportant, colleagues. On the contrary, they are very important elements, and that is why our group will vote for this resolution. However, there is one essential element missing from this resolution, and it was rightly mentioned by Mr Dallemagne. An essential missing element is precisely the link between Muslim extremistism and Saudi Arabia. We have had a very painful illustration of this today at a common football match. Not only did this sitting begin today with a minute's silence to commemorate the victims of the attacks last week. The World Cup qualification competition between Saudi Arabia and Australia also began with a minute's silence to commemorate the victims of the attack in London. Well, it was very painful to see that Saudi Arabia's team disturbed this minute of silence by simply continuing to warm up before the football game. I fear that this is a bit of Saudi Arabia's true face on Muslim extremistism. A number of speakers have already mentioned this today, and rightly so. Mr Dallemagne, Mr Miller, also Mr De Roover with the metaphor that it is the matches with which one plays next to the haystack. I have also read it in the resolution in the recitals, in particular recital M, where it is rightly said that Saudi Arabia has made a huge contribution to the spread of Salafism and Wahabism in the form of religious reading, funding of mosques and setting up Islamic organisations. It is therefore a pity, ladies and gentlemen, that nothing of this is found in the decision-making part of this resolution. This Parliament seems to be allowed to continue playing with the matches next to the haystack. We would, of course, have preferred it to have been done in the decision-making part of the resolution. That it would include breaking the lease for the Great Mosque in Brussels and banning any material or financial support to religious organizations or institutions such as mosques, Quran schools, import of religious reading and so on in this country. This would prevent worshipers from being sent from Saudi Arabia to this country or financed by Saudi Arabia to engage in religious activities in that country. These essential elements should have been included in this resolution and it was certainly not necessary to wait for the report of a committee of inquiry. Our group tried to fill these gaps by amending the resolution to that effect, an amendment on which you will all be able to express your views in due course. It will certainly not prevent us from accepting the legitimate concerns that have already been raised in detail today with the adoption of this resolution on behalf of our group.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u134	Ladies and gentlemen, I will not repeat what has been said here and in committee. I refer to my detailed statements in committee and to the amendments that I tabled at that committee and which I am resubmitting today. However, I will come back soon on a few points. For years we have been calling for a debate on our relations with Saudi Arabia. We called for it the day after the attacks in France in November 2015 and this was an integral part of the resolution on an effective fight against terrorism that we tabled in January 2016 already. But it is essential that these are true debates and not a hijacking of Minister Reynders in the UN voting affair. As the editorialist of a vesperal daily, we are witnessing, I quote, "a bad political game around Saudi Arabia". This editorialist added in this debate on Belgian-Saudi relations: "The Minister of Foreign Affairs Didier Reynders is just trying to move the sight pointed at him since the case of the Commission on Women's Rights at the UN by designating another target, while on the Flemish nationalist side, we see here a good way to put Walloons and the PS in particular in a big embarrassment." I think it's a good summary of the maneuver we're witnessing. Therefore, the majority decided to communitize and use a debate that should have been important. This is demonstrated by the fact that the resolution has been emptied of its content on a number of issues, including Yemen. This is demonstrated by the refusal to explicitly mention dual-use technologies in the amendments. I am not going to go back to the whole debate that took place earlier. The Chamber's legal service points out this because it explicitly asks that the text be made clearer and more precise "to avoid", I quote again, "that the reader have to start a track game that does not make it easier to understand". Finally, this small game is proved by the rejection of the many amendments introduced, especially those that call for the cessation of our special ties and alliances with Saudi Arabia in relation to its violations of international law and its links with terrorism. We have therefore tabled several amendments in committee aimed at breaking the effective alliance links that we have as a state at federal level with Saudi Arabia, amendments to take steps, investigate and condemn, where appropriate, Yemen's war crimes in Yemen, amendments to take measures to raise the issue of the embargo at European level, amendments to defend compensation for workers in order to avoid losses for them, amendments to denounce also the far-reaching arms contracts that are being concluded by Saudi Arabia with the American and French allies. Furthermore, we are very committed to the principles of the Charter of the United Nations, including its articles dealing with the sovereignty of all States and the international order based on peace and equality among nations. If we want to review the policy towards Saudi Arabia, it is in the light of its violations of the rules of international law and the principles of the Charter of the United Nations. It is in this sense that we have proposed these basic measures through our amendments. All these amendments were rejected in committee. The debate in committee was clearly a hijacking to save Private Reynders' skin. We regret this instrumentalization and we cannot walk in it! Even if we no longer have a lot of illusions, we hope that in plenary we will see something else. That is why we are resubmitting the amendments that we tabled in committee, hoping to have a different vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u135	Mr President, Belgium is a small country which makes it very large abroad. It is therefore normal that when debates are held on foreign affairs, these debates take a very long time. It is striking that debates on issues from the Committee on External Relations always take a long time, to which you have drawn my attention, Mr Calvo. The fact that people are so busy abroad sometimes means that they forget about the interior. There are, after all, a number of things in that resolution which are in fact contrary to the developments we have seen in the law of state since 1970. We are confident that we can support the general objective of that resolution. I really don't have a problem with that. However, I have a problem with the fact that there are a number of provisions which suddenly give the government and the Minister of Foreign Affairs a kind of advisory power vis-à-vis the Länder. That's very strange. I have just heard Mr Miller say that he is a convinced Walloon regionalist and that the debates on this need to take place in the parliaments of the Länder. It is therefore very strange that the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs should be given an advisory role to this effect. That these resolutions should be put forward in the relevant Land Parliament. I find it very strange that the Flemish nationalists will approve this, applaud it and find it fantastic that the Federal French-speaking Foreign Minister should now be given an advisory role vis-à-vis the Regions. I really do not think that this is an asset for Flanders, with all due respect to Mr Reynders. I don't think that's how Flanders is being completed. Perhaps you are more concerned with creating new forms of unionist federalism, something that you were always opposed to in the past, but apparently much less in recent years.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u136	I simply wish to reply to Mr Vuye. In fact, we are not putting in place a federal system or re-federalization of the Region's powers. It is planned, Mr Vuye, that the Minister of Foreign Affairs will inform the Regions of the human rights situation in the countries for which a proposal for an arms export licence is under consideration. It's already planned and it's going this way. There is no new process here. I've heard you talk about the regional commitment of some. I can tell you that we are in favour of a federalism of union, in which the Regions fully exercise their powers. A framework for discussion is already planned. If it is this element that bothers you in the motion for a resolution, be calmed: it already exists.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u137	I must give the floor to Mr Vuye, asking you not to reopen a debate between you, otherwise we will never get away with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u138	Mr. Miller, I have no problem with the information. But what do I read in point 5? "...and advised the Regions to do the same." What do I read in paragraph 9? "...to ask." Flanders does not need the views of Mr Reynders. Thank you very much, but this is not an improvement, with all due respect for Mr Reynders. The Flemish Region does not need the views of Mr Reynders, nor does the Community.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u139	Does the minister think there is a personal fact? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u140	Mr President, for having heard the last speaker, I dare not imagine what the size of Flanders should be for his diplomatic voice to bear in the world, if we were to follow Mr Vuye's argument. More fundamentally, let our Parliament at last express itself more decisively as regards the relations between Belgium and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, it was more than necessary. I recall that, for a whole period of time, our Government has not shown a great deal of determination to make clear to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia that this anti-democratic drift has become more than unbearable. I recall that the government, for example, covered the displacement of the Head of State, King Philip, to offer its condolences to the ruling family following the death of the previous King Fayçal. This has been the subject of questioning and intervention in this House. I remember very well the Prime Minister's answer asking why to blame. He then quoted at length the European and other States that had delegated representatives to the ruling family in order to present their State's official condolences to the ruling regime. I had had the weakness or the will to say that there might have been whippings on Raif Badawi's back with the complicity and silence of the authorities lacking the courage to refrain from offering condolences to a regime that is said today to be all unacceptable threats and interventions, including in our national territory. I am surprised that some facts were not mentioned in the resolution. First of all, let us not recall that the vote cast by Belgium in the competent United Nations body, at the time when the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia was designated, was regretted by the Prime Minister. At the very least, it could be recalled that the government authorities at the time had not been diligent in preventing this regrettable vote. That could still have been said, and I am tabling an amendment to that effect. I ask that this text include a reminder of this fact, which shows that this resolution was born, was brought up at some point because there was this unbearable and reprehensible and more than regrettable vote. Secondly, the debate on Saudi Arabia's financing of cults was ruled out. (I have spoken in committee and others have also spoken to this effect.) We have been asked to wait for the debate when the resolutions and recommendations of the Counter-Terrorism Committee are available. Honestly, who needs to wait for the resolutions or recommendations of the Counter-Terrorism Committee to know what the role of Saudi Arabia in the direct or indirect support of certain channels of international terrorism has been and still is? Do not dare to assert this in a resolution such as this is tantamount to assuming a very limited courage. However, it is a fact that deserves a real debate and a bolder response from the public authorities. We will not ignore the debate on the financing of cults, and especially of Muslim worship, by foreign powers which, through their governmental practices and ideological choices, are far removed from all our democratic principles. Europe will not be able to leave this debate open indefinitely, nor will our country or the regions which make up it and which exercise some competence. In this regard, I welcome the work under way in the Walloon Government and Parliament to improve the financing of cults and to put an end to this type of external interventionism which is not based on relations between states and certainly not on countries which respect democratic freedoms, including freedom of worship. This is far from the case of States that finance certain reactionary, retrograde and, to say the least, hostile religious currents against our fundamental freedoms. You have to have the courage to assert it. I also table amendments, knowing that they will not be adopted, since the majority do not want this debate at the moment. But this one can't be you. We will have to come back with strength. With regard to the issue of the sale of arms and military technology, the discussion was not new. First of all, let's be honest! When the debate on regionalization of competences took place, both in the South and in the North of the country, expressed a desire for autonomy so that there was no longer any right of cross-examination from one Region to another. I remember very well one summer, during which some parliamentary committees met in haste, following arms exports to third countries which posed a problem. It was almost the cause of a government crisis. And then the outcome took the form of a regionalization of competences. However, since this regionalisation, all regional governments – whatever their composition – from the North, the Centre, the South – although in the Brussels Region, the export of arms is an exceptional prerogative, since they are mostly components and rarely the manufacture of specific weapons have closed their eyes on this issue, prioritizing their economic interests to the ethical requirement in relations with third countries for the sale of weapons. So we can blame each other in this assembly. But if we revisit the history of the arms licences given by regional governments over time, we will see that governments, all parties, have agreed at some point to export arms to countries that cannot benefit from our trust. It is true that the motion for a resolution under consideration is a strong gesture. But we will have to think about what we are doing with other States that are not much more respectful of the fundamental freedoms and democratic values that we intend to defend. It is therefore a much broader debate that awaits us. Today, we have Saudi Arabia in "the sight" – if I may say so – but it is not the only state we will have to ask ourselves about what our policies on arms exports should be. And it may be necessary to conduct this debate without being confronted with such topicality as we have experienced in recent months, because of the failings of the federal government or of certain authorities. Therefore, even if there are shortcomings, because the text under consideration has the audacity - and I welcome the original authors - to awaken consciousness in the face of abuses that threaten our rule of law and Europe's essential values, we will support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u141	Mr President, I thank Mr Maingain for his contribution to this motion for a resolution. However, I would like to make a historical reminder. Mr Maingain, I have heard you say that since the regionalisation of competence, all political families have been involved. I don't want to be more angelic than the pope. I do not know whether it is angelic or whether the formula is used. But know, Mr. Maingain, that the MR has only participated a few months in a Walloon government since the regionalization of jurisdiction. The latter took place in 2003. In 2004, we joined the opposition and we are in 2017. But it is true that, for a few months, our group participated again in the Walloon government. I insist on this aspect. Indeed, not everyone has the same level of responsibility in all arms licences that were exported to Saudi Arabia between 2003 and 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u142	Mr. Maingain obviously wishes to react to this historical precision, for posterity.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u143	Mr Miller, we could make history of Belgium's arms exports before regionalisation, and see what the majorities were. Let's be good. We know that for a long time, regardless of the composition of government, economic interests were privileged, at the expense of thinking about ethical requirements. That's all I'm saying. Before and after regionalization. I do not know what successive majorities have been in each of the regional governments.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u144	Mr President, I would first like to welcome the statement made by my colleague Mrs Grovonius. I would also like to add a few personal considerations. First of all, it is enough to read the reports of UN organisations to realize that human rights and women's rights are being violated in Saudi Arabia. We can't deny it. Belgium must commit itself with all its weight at European and international level to ensuring that these rights are respected and advanced in Saudi Arabia. We know that, alone, Belgium is too small to be heard. It must make use of its tradition of dialogue and multilateralism. Therefore, a unilateral decision by Belgium to stop its trade relations with Saudi Arabia, including the arms trade, will not prevent other European countries from trading as they wish with this Gulf country. To think the opposite is hypocrisy. Ladies and gentlemen, the resolution calls on Belgium to submit its relations with Saudi Arabia to "in-depth reflection" - which is rather vague. On the other hand, it is very clear when it calls on the federated entities to put an end to arms exports to that country. As a result, requirements vary from one level of authority to another. Within the European Union, Belgium and Wallonia are minor players in arms exports. Wallonia accounts for a marginal percentage of total European exports. To think that a unilateral Walloon embargo decision will influence Saudi Arabia seems to me to be uncredible. We know that Saudi Arabia's first trading partner is the European Union. In Belgium, it is no less than 1,500 companies that export to this country in various sectors and also in the armaments sector, where 15,000 jobs are concerned in Wallonia alone. These exchanges create interdependence between the two countries. If we decide to isolate ourselves with an embargo, beyond the jobs lost, I believe that Belgium will lose its ability to influence a leading regional power. Ladies and gentlemen, workers in the arms sector must not pay the bill for Belgium's diplomatic fiasco. At European level, we have been in favour of a code of conduct on the sale of weapons to which Wallonia fully complies. If there are rules for the sale of common weapons, I think it is normal for the embargo rules to be applied as well. It's a matter of common sense. For these various considerations, I cannot agree with this resolution and my statement against it is not a sub-localist statement, but an internationalist one. Belgium's weight is low except when used in a multilateral context. We have to keep this in mind.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u145	Mr President, I do not want to prolong the debates unnecessarily, but I will go back to a few points, starting by thanking the various political groups. Indeed, in this debate and over the years, minds evolve in all groups. A number of points of the resolution relate to economic missions and arms sales. Our last economic mission to Saudi Arabia, in which Oman was also visited, took place in March 2014, following a request from the three regional governments to the Foreign Trade Agency. So in March 2014, we still had an economic mission to Saudi Arabia, at the request of the three regional governments. I will not mention the political composition of the three regional governments at that time, but there is a good development for all political groups. As far as the sale of weapons is concerned, the same applies. Majorities followed the Region. I have been in the department since the end of 2011 and I would say that until the summer of 2014, I did not receive strong requests from the Walloon government to go towards an embargo or to suspend the export of arms. I will not recall the composition of this government at the time, including with regard to this proposal which was submitted to us today and the authors of this proposal. Since I am shown photographic reminders, I will confess that the mission of March 2014 was carried out with Princess Astrid, together with Mr Marcourt for the Walloon Region and Mrs Fremault for the Brussels Region. When I say "at our side", I still have the weakness to believe that I was present! Just bear in mind that in the Federal Agency, the three Regions are making the request and I have found that the Regions want to go to Saudi Arabia. They came through their respective ministers. Please distribute all available photos and not just one or the other! The federal government will effectively implement the resolution, if it is voted earlier. I hope that the resolution can be adopted unanimously. Even if it is only adopted by a majority of the votes, we will apply and implement the resolution correctly. For me, it must be said to the Regions that we will no longer organise an economic mission if there is no progress on human rights, especially women's rights, in Saudi Arabia. Not even at the request of one region or another, we will organise a new economic mission with the External Trade Agency. We will also ask the Regions to go in the same direction. That is also a question from Parliament in the resolution. For a few years, we have provided the three Regions with all the information on the human rights situation in Saudi Arabia. There were many meetings on this subject on the basis of our cooperation agreement. Following an exchange of views between my department and the Regions, it was the exclusive competence of the Regions to organise an economic mission and still decide on the supply of weapons. With regard to the delivery of weapons more directly, I did not wish to interrupt the exciting debate just now, Mr President, but I understood first of all that, with regard to the possible dual use of a number of products, the reference text was very clear since it is included in European texts and the Chamber's legal service has also made itself very clear. In general, even if we don't have a lot of time, reading page one should already be enough. I want to say that it should already be possible to understand the process, but in order for there to be no doubt, I would like to say that I will of course send the Ministers-Presidents of the Regions a letter, as soon as you have adopted the resolution. I don't want to leave any doubt in the Chamber. I will send a letter to Mr Bourgeois saying that on 8 June, by a very large majority, the Chamber adopted a resolution to review Belgium's foreign policy towards the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. Point 9 of that resolution asks the Federal Government to ask the Länder to put an end to the import, export and transit of military goods and technology referred to in the lists referred to in Articles 6 and 12 of the Council Common Position of 8 December 2008 with the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. I therefore ask the regions to respond positively to the question put by the Belgian Parliament. With regard to point 10 of the resolution before us, I will write: "To take action on European and/or UN echelon in relation to a domain of competence of the federated entities, the federal government should be given a mandate from the competent authorities. With regard to the request for number 10 of the resolution, we may ask you to give the agreement of the Flemish Government that the federal government on behalf of Belgium is calling for the establishment of a European embargo on arms exports and dual use goods to Saudi Arabia. If necessary, I will inform you that the Ministers-Presidents of the Walloon Region and the Brussels Region will receive the same letter, except that it will be addressed to them in French. Therefore, with regard to request No 10 of this resolution, I would ask them: "Can you confirm to me by return of mail that the Walloon Government, or the Brussels Government, agrees with the Federal Government's plea on behalf of Belgium for a European embargo on the export of dual-use weapons and equipment to Saudi Arabia?" I think this is the best way to clarify what was asked of me earlier on dual use. The terms are clear. I believe it is very clear, for all the regions. Mrs Grovonius stated that we have had questions about this from the Walloon Region for many years. I didn't read it, never. Even at the last meeting, the question of a real embargo was always unclear. I will send a letter in the hope of getting a positive response from the various regions so that we can put that question on the table of the European Union. Point 9 is in fact a direct demand for a Belgian embargo, for a decision at Belgian level to put an end to possible deliveries. As far as contacts with Saudi Arabia are concerned, I have received many questions from my colleague from Saudi Arabia for direct contact in recent weeks. I will go into that, but I asked not to do so the day before the debate in Parliament. That wouldn't be normal. A few hours ago we received a question in the same direction from my colleague from Qatar. We will therefore organise bilateral contacts, probably in Brussels, with my fellow Members from Saudi Arabia and Qatar. This seems to me to be very useful, not only for a direct discussion on human rights, women's rights and many other areas that have been criticised in this House, but also on recent developments in the Gulf States. With regard to recent developments in the Gulf region, there has been a very strong decision to break diplomatic relations, sometimes by going further, taken by Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, the United Arab Emirates or Egypt with regard to Qatar. It is important, as many have pointed out, to document all the arguments and elements that are often already disseminated regarding the financing of terrorist groups by a number of States, foundations or groupings that may be considered close to certain States. I hope that the work which has been done in the Committee on Terrorism and which has focused on radicalism will give us a number of complementary elements on this aspect of criticism of countries that could be the source of terrorist financing. It is important that this situation be discussed with both the Saudi authorities and Qatar. I would like to conclude by saying that I have proposed that we have a debate at the beginning of the year. If we can lead him sooner, so much the better! But on relations with Saudi Arabia, I think that when we do, we will probably have to go into broader debates. My feeling is that there is a real stake in the Islamic world today. We have, through predecessors, a number of years ago, been able to see that, after the Second World War, for powers that were barely emerging from a bloody conflict, it was possible in Yalta to try to set up a new world order through the Bretton Woods institutions, the United Nations and other regional approaches, including the European Union that emerged later or alliances like NATO. After the Cold War, many European countries entered into the Helsinki Accords; certainly useful to mention in evolution. I believe that there is now a possibility, perhaps within the United Nations, of two groups of countries. One of the elements I mentioned, moreover, with UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres earlier this week in New York, at the conference on oceans, is the role that the UN should play in opening a debate between the Shia world and the Sunni world. Very concretely, this means a debate between Iran and Saudi Arabia. There are a number of conflicts between these components of Islam and, through them, often states. Let us look at what has been happening in Yemen, Syria, Iraq, Libya and Lebanon for a very long time. I remain convinced that, in addition to a necessary resumption of dialogue for a Middle East peace process between Israel and the Palestinian Authority, it is essential to gradually initiate a debate between the Shi'a world and the Sunni world, and more specifically between Saudi Arabia and Iran, if this region of the world is to be stabilized. From this point of view, Belgium, along with others, is very committed. One of the few diplomatic successes in my view over the last few decades has probably been the nuclear agreement reached, to a large extent, at the initiative of the European Union, with Iran. We'll have to control him. This does not give us all the guarantees, but perhaps it would bring Iran back to the international discussion tables. What is happening today is a good progress for our Parliament, I believe. Almost all groups evolved compared to a few years ago. We will therefore continue to apply this resolution in many bilateral contacts with Saudi Arabia itself. I repeat, I have heard some names, including Raif Badawi, that I have always said something about this, in all bilateral contacts and also very openly in press briefings, and that I have achieved some results. I would like to say to Mr. Maingain that when decisions were taken on Saudi Arabia, fortunately, despite his continued arrest, Mr. Badawi was no longer subjected to corporal punishment. This is the first request we made. I do not despair that we can get more: his liberation. A case like this, and others, have been systematically raised in bilateral or multilateral contacts with Saudi Arabia. They will still be in the future. Mr President, I hope that, beyond the discussions this afternoon, there will be room for unanimity on a decision like this. Even if this was not the case, the government will implement the content of the resolution that your House wishes to adopt.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u146	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of his reply, the Minister for Foreign Affairs expressed the commitment to fully implement this resolution. I would like to thank you, Minister. You know us, we are going to watch over that process in the coming months in this Parliament. We assume that the fellow Members of the other parties will do the same to us. It is very interesting and important that you will soon be in touch with the representatives of Saudi Arabia, as well as Qatar, given the international context. Specifically with regard to contact with Saudi Arabia, you can therefore immediately follow up on the final point of the resolution, in particular to provide the questions and concerns raised therein, especially in the explanatory section on the human rights situation in Saudi Arabia, to the representatives of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, which you will apparently soon see. As the lead producer, I also greatly appreciate that you have already addressed a number of Parliament's questions regarding the government. It is then about the elements that fall within your competence. Indeed, this resolution contains a number of questions for the government, which fall within the competence of your fellow Members. For example, the Minister of Defence, Mr Vandeput, is asked no longer to allow the defence attachés to establish the commercial contacts between our arms industry and Saudi Arabia. State Secretary De Crem is asked to order Delcredere, the Credendo Group, no longer to insure arms exports to Saudi Arabia. That last point falls within the competence of Pieter De Crem. Thank you again, Minister, for your commitment. This matter is being prosecuted, both in terms of the implementation of the resolution and in terms of the evolution of a more general debate on a review of our relations with Saudi Arabia, which can go further than in this resolution. However, this resolution is already a very important first step. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you all.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u147	Thank you, Minister of Foreign Affairs, for your comments and your answer. There are two things that I have spoken about and that I have not heard you say, but that I think are important. First, if we want to be serious about our relations with Saudi Arabia, it is about getting around the table, federal government and federated entities, and discussing all our economic relations with Saudi Arabia in order to arrive at a plan of disengagement. I specifically mentioned the question of our oil purchases, because it is a considerable transfer of money to the treasury of Saudi Arabia, which I have estimated to be more than two billion euros. This is an extremely substantial issue in our relations. I would very much like to see, within the framework of the powers of the federal government, particularly in the strategic reserve at the oil level, but not only, a disengagement plan implemented for our oil purchases from Saudi Arabia. We are an exception at European level. Our Saudi fuel imports account for more than a quarter of total imports, while for Europe as a whole they represent only 7%. We are one of the countries that buys the most oil from Saudi Arabia and I want that to change. And this matter falls within the jurisdiction of the federal government. Secondly, I asked you and your colleague from the Interior about the famous OCAM report which links Saudi Arabia, the Great Mosque, Wahhabism and terrorism. I have told you that there is a debate today in Britain in the light of the recent terrorist attacks, in which a wide range of members of the British Parliament and members of civil society are calling for the publication of the report that exists in Britain on this link between Saudi Arabia and terrorism. The same type of report exists for Belgium. A few good pages have been published in the Standaard, but it now has a confidential status, which does not allow us to discuss it publicly in Parliament. I ask that it be published so that we can have a debate on this important and important element which establishes the link between Wahhabism and the spread of terrorism, including in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u148	Mr President, I thank the minister for his various points of answer. Turning to the question of our excellent colleague, Mr Dallemagne, concerning the energy and oil aspects, I think I said at the beginning of my speech (Mr Dallemagne repeated in his reply) that a broad debate will take place on all the relations between Belgium and Saudi Arabia. Mr. De Vriendt said: the elements that are not in the resolution can also be addressed. It is also a way of responding to your concern, Mr Dallemagne; we will remain attentive to all aspects of Belgian-Saudi relations, as the minister said in his reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u149	I would like to speak on two points. Mr De Vriendt asked about the division of powers among the various ministers. However, I have said that the government will implement the resolution, by which I mean the whole government. That's obvious. We will do that. Mr Dallemagne, we are indeed going to implement this resolution. However, some of your questions are addressed to your colleagues, since you are asking for some additional considerations. The discussions took place. I take the example of petroleum products. In any case, I cannot allow you to feel that the Belgian community is exorbitantly financing the Saudi regime. Our trade balance is positive – not to mention the weapons of war, which are only known statistically by regional parliaments. These are figures from the Belgian Foreign Trade Agency. I repeat: without armaments, the figures of which are known to the Regions. I guess either one of them will be able to pass them on to you. Secondly, I would like to hear a lot of things, but you seem to be asking for an end to the oil trade with Saudi Arabia. However, one of the most debated points is the arms trade. If we are not already able to put an end to our relations in this regard – and we will see what the Regions will respond to us – do not open up further work by suggesting that we ask partners to stop their oil deliveries. Again, and Mr Miller has just recalled, I have stated on several occasions that we will make every effort to hold a debate on all our relations. So these points will be discussed. So far, I have not heard anyone, during the debates in committee, calling for an end to our trade relations with Saudi Arabia. If we do it sector by sector, I don't see exactly how far you want to take us.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u150	Minister, I must say that I am particularly disappointed with your answer, because I do not see what bothers you and why you oppose the sale of arms and the purchase of petroleum products. These two activities are obviously linked: if we do not buy petroleum products, Saudi Arabia has fewer means of obtaining weapons. It's obvious! That our trade balance is positive for some years does not prevent that there is a massive financial flow from our country to Saudi Arabia. Therefore, I ask you to take this issue very seriously. That other colleagues did not raise it does not mean that it is not relevant, whether it is secondary or devoid of an emergency character. I ask you to take that into account. It is not obvious that Belgium buys a quarter of its oil products in Saudi Arabia, whereas most European countries did not buy this type of oil from it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u151	Mr President, I am no longer intervening on this point. I will look at the text of the resolution and see if Mr Dallemagne has convinced all his colleagues. With regard to Mr Dallemagne's other question concerning the documents of the OCAM, I will also ask the Minister of the Interior for information, but to my knowledge there is, if I am not mistaken, a committee in Parliament to examine a whole series of files from the intelligence services or the OCAM. I assume that these bodies in the House can review documents and decide whether or not to make them public. I do not believe that there is a major opposition from the government in this area. At least I never heard of one. But there are procedures that exist in this case. There is also, for the time being, a commission in charge of the terrorism issue. To the best of my knowledge, this commission has all the capacity to get these documents produced and then to decide whether it wants to go to publication. Again, I don't think it's necessary to have a stick effect on a situation like this. The document exists. There was never a government approach to saying that we didn't want to broadcast. There are simply procedures to do so. This is not the way to disseminate intelligence or threat analysis documents without following the usual procedures in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u152	Mr. Minister of Foreign Affairs, perhaps you are misinformed. It is not for Parliament to decide the level of classification of a document. Parliament, the committee in camera, took note of this report. I just want to say that today the debate cannot be public because it is a confidential report. It is, of course, not up to Parliament to decide whether this report should be confidential or not. I simply mean that in Britain there is a very important demand from a part of the political class for a similar report to be made public, and I would like to see an analysis of the extent to which a report, which seems to me to be so fundamental and which was published in the press by De Standaard – this is the paradox – always has the status of a confidential report, which does not allow parliamentarians to discuss it publicly. I therefore ask the government, and in particular the minister in charge of this issue, to consider the extent to which a debate can take place on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u153	I understand that Mr. Dallemagne is misinformed about restricted documents. The document is not confidential. The document is limited in distribution. This is a very strong shade in the provisions. Again, I understand that, in an individual capacity, one or the other wishes to take an advance in this matter, but, as you recalled, the documents were available to a commission. It is obvious that if the commission of inquiry into terrorism were to request the publication of a document such as this one which is now restricted in distribution, the government will examine, in order to comply with the procedure, the follow-up to be reserved, but I believe that there is no objection, in any case neither for the inside nor for the outside – which is already wide enough – to make this document public. But let us keep to a minimum the procedures! It is not because a request is made in the course of a plenary debate that it will be immediately followed up. There's a procedure. Parliamentarians had access to the documents. The Chamber will decide whether it wishes the document to be made public. I repeat, on the government side, there is no major objection. But I think that parliamentarians will also look at the details of the content and see to what extent this type of document may or may not be disseminated. I believe that the House will have to take a decision at the end of the commission's work on terrorism because we must not be mistaken, many other documents are not only restricted but also confidential, and they must, in our view, remain so, because they contain elements that cannot be disseminated to the public, sometimes, otherwise harming the security of a certain number of people.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u154	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u155	The vote on the amendments adopted and on the whole of the proposal, with an improvement on request 21, will take place later. The vote on the reserved amendments and on the whole proposal, with a correction to the request 21, will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u156	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 675: Sabien Lahaye-Battheu, Katja Gabriëls - 1829: Conseil Degroote, Christoph D'Haese, Brecht Vermeulen, Koen Metsu - 2035: Franky Demon.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u157	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u158	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law reforms the law regulating private and special security of 10 April 1990, also known as the Tobback Act. The Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Public Administration devoted five meetings to the discussion of this bill and organised a hearing with speakers from the field of work, the academic world, employers' and employees' organisations and representatives from the Permanent Committee of the Local Police and the Mayors' Council respectively. Three legislative proposals were also linked to this draft law. I will refer in the main order to the written report, but I believe that this draft law is sufficiently important to mention or recall some elements of the discussion in our committee. The explanatory statement of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Security and Home Affairs first of all showed that it was chosen to create a highly simplified and readable law, as the current law had become a complex one by repeated amendments to the law. Although the new law is rather a framework law that still requires a large number of royal and ministerial decisions, several aspects of this draft were nevertheless dealt with in detail, including those that define the specific powers of the private sector. This new law recognises the specific expertise developed by the private sector over the years and can contribute to comprehensive security. Although the private security sector is given a number of new tasks and powers, divided into generic, activity-related and situational powers, the exercise of coercion and violence remains, in principle, reserved for the police in this draft, which is before the vote. Two new operations included in the new law are sweepings and provision of technical safety equipment with operators. It should be stressed that, with regard to the arms trade in the generic powers, nothing was changed, but only in the situation with regard to military sites or with certain international institutions and embassies. As far as monitoring undertakings are concerned, the licensing system is maintained, as is the principle of specification. Finally, the control of individuals and undertakings active in the private security sector is also strengthened in a number of respects. The general discussion initially raised a number of general and specific questions to the Minister, which were answered in detail after the meeting. In the general discussion it was further stressed that the 1990 Act, as it stands today, needed modernisation, simplification and clarification, as well as the importance of a thorough review by several speakers as a point of attention. Several speakers recalled that this draft law is clearly linked to the key tasks of the police, that the security of citizens remains a core task of the government and that a balance is important between tasks reserved for the police and tasks that can be carried out by the private sector. However, the members of the committee clearly differed as to where this balance should lie and which tasks should be reserved for the public authorities or may also be exercised by private monitoring services. However, the fact that some of these tasks can only be carried out by the private sector under the supervision of the police services was reassuring for many, although several speakers nevertheless continued to wonder where the limits for the so-called outsourcing of security tasks lie. Where some groups indicated their support for an even more extensive definition of tasks for the private security sector, others showed themselves to be partial rather than a cool lover or even adversary of the draft law. For example, the opponents asked questions about the extension of the powers of the private sector, the effectiveness of the licensing system or the budgetary implications of the bill, including for local authorities. Some speakers risked a two-speed security policy, which was denied by the Deputy Prime Minister. Finally, a number of specific sectors were identified, including those of the nightlife environment. During the article-by-article discussion a large number of punctual questions were asked. There were also three amendments tabled by the majority and approved by the committee. One of these amendments deals with the introduction of an annual report to the Chamber of Representatives on the activities of the inspection services, the infringements detected and any advice to improve the law. The amended text was then adopted by the committee so that this amended text of the proposal can now be submitted to the plenary for discussion and vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u159	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the government agreement of October 2014 initially provided for an evaluation of the law of 10 April 1990 regulating private and special security. Further in the text, the Tobback Act will be discussed. The Government Declaration stated: "The regulation of private security will be evaluated. On the basis of this evaluation, a new and simplified legislation will be developed to allow certain tasks which do not fall within the core tasks of the police to be carried out by private security services. The initiative will take into account the key tasks of the police forces. The evaluation was indeed there, in the summer of 2015. Afterwards the work could be continued in the form of drawing up a draft law. That bill was discussed in committee and is before the House today. It is an update of a law that is almost 30 years old and has been completed no less than 20 times. The result was, as the evaluation showed, that the whole was quite unclear and difficult to read and that a large update was needed. This is now being done through a completely reworked replacement of the 1990 law. The new law, of course, builds on the existing texts and on the practical experience, which makes sense. But the new law also provides more clarity, more transparency, a better structure. A number of concepts that were unclear are now also better defined or clarified. Of course, the world has changed considerably compared to the 1990 world. There are clear social changes. On the one hand, we have greater tolerance for a number of things. On the other hand, we know an increase in aggressive behaviour. There are more mass events, there are larger shopping centers, there are more internationally organized criminal gangs, there is more digitisation, there is wireless communication, there is internet, there are drones. Many things have changed in relation to the situation in 1990. When we look at an increase in security, we are also increasingly looking at technological resources in monitoring and security orders. I'm thinking camera surveillance, but I'm also thinking camera surveillance with facial recognition. I am not talking about the increased need for more complete security as a result of the terrorist threat, which we have known for several years now. During the discussion, to which the rapporteur referred earlier, there were also a number of hearings on not only the draft law but also on the linked priority legislative proposals in committee, specifically on the proposal of the Open Group. We then had the opportunity to hold a lot of hearings, which covered a lot of views from many organisations: the police, trade unions, providers, professional organisations, customers and the academic world. We have, of course, also had differences of opinion during the discussions in committee or during the hearings, sometimes with the speakers, sometimes with fellow Members, sometimes in committee but also sometimes outside. The differences of opinion were sometimes about the scope of the bill or the bill and sometimes about the procedure or the texts. Although private security has meanwhile become a trusted part of events and certain places and although private surveillance companies have around 14 000 security agents on the ground and there are also internal security services, there are still parties who consider that security policy should be carried out solely by the government or police forces. Our party obviously has a different view on this. It is logical for us that the private sector, which has been known for many years and has done good work, is and remains an important partner in an integrated security policy. Most of the interlocutors we had during the hearings have been positive about the current regime. I am therefore pleased to hear that during the hearings, the representative of the local police also noted that the private partners have added value, allowing the police to concentrate even more on its core tasks. I followed him there when he tied six conditions to that. The draft law now before us creates legal certainty and opportunities, both for the private sector, of course, which also called for better regulation, and for the public services, including the police. A number of changes now allow private guards to carry out voluntary searches and check the identity of discotheques, for example. In addition, security agents can be used for static and situational surveillance, specific perimeter surveillance, surveillance in shopping streets during bargain days. All this must be done in close cooperation with the police and it is only the police who can use and have the monopoly on coercion. The draft law provides important answers to questions from the sector, for example on the use of weapons. Clearly, nothing has changed in this respect. Weapons can only be used in specific situational surveillance. We're talking nuclear domains, nuclear sites, cash shipments. The legislative text also alleviates a number of tasks for police forces. That was exactly the example that the representative of the Permanent Commission of Local Police also indicated. We are thinking of preventive sweeps in, for example, port areas and airports, major events, perimeter monitoring. As a result, improper police tasks, such as static surveillance, can be taken over from the police, releasing capacity for the core tasks of the police. In addition, it will be possible for the police to use technology and know-how, e.g. specialized cameras on drones. Then not every police zone itself has to make that investment in expensive equipment. They can use the equipment that the private sector has, with which they cooperate. We have natural ideological differences, but we live in globalisation, in a world where the sky is the limit. Borders are both physical and virtual no longer stumbling blocks, and crooked figures can undermine our safety by means of all kinds of indoctrination. It is important to know that the legislative text continues to place autonomy and final competence on the local authorities. That is essential, colleagues. Each board must carry out the necessary safety analyses and develop its own roadmap to ensure the safety of the population. It is now possible to weigh all existing alternatives against each other, both on the basis of capacity and cost. We are pleased that our bill was also incorporated into the new law. This concerns in particular the abolition of the so-called "frigo period" for former police officers. Ladies and gentlemen, we are seeing an evolution in the field of controls. It is very important that the workers of the sector are trustworthy. Therefore, the legislative text provides for thorough screening and training, as well as the necessary controls. We are very pleased that not only will an administrative check be carried out, as is already happening by the Home Office, but that there will also be a political check so that we can evaluate what is happening from Parliament. From now on, a report on the state of private security will be sent to Parliament every year. In this context, it is necessary to examine the extent to which the P Committee can be involved in the checks. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we note that the legislative text provides an answer to a large number of questions from the sector. We're gonna need a follow-up. In the future, we should be as practical as possible. I am thinking of tasks such as shopkeeping, exit surveillance and catch in the act. So the work is on going.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u160	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, much has already been said about this project in the debates in committee, which have been very long. For my group, it is still important to come back to key points in this debate in the House. It's not about any matter. This is about the safety of our citizens and, above all, about giving the private sector the keys to broad operational aspects of this security. It is not only a question of regulating an existing market, but also of extending it and, in doing so, of moving the State back into the core of its sovereign missions, namely, the protection of property and people, the security to which every person in that country is entitled. It is also a question of delegating to private actors certain capacities to resort to violence, the State should retain its monopoly. Finally, it is a project which opens up this sector a little more to competition by opening the way for automatic recognition of guardian companies authorised elsewhere in the European Union, while relaxing the administrative supervision of the agents and managers of these companies. As you can see, there are three points that mark the very sensitive nature of this project. As far as privatisation is concerned, I would like to say that it is not for my group to reject the idea of regulating a market that actually exists. That was the meaning of the Tobback Act, which this bill is intended to replace. The codification of regulations that have become difficult to read due to numerous decrees and related texts is a rather laudable intention, which must be recognized. But it is quite another thing to extend the expertise of the private sector to missions such as the sweating of buildings, the provision of technical equipment and its operators, to give it the opportunity to monitor sensitive infrastructure or security perimeters. It's something else because it's a good game to repeat that it's not a question of replacing the police in this area, but of offering a private alternative. The reality on the ground is this: if it is considered useful to resort to the private sector in these areas, it is because the federal police are unable to carry out their functions of supporting the local areas by this government - a government that communicates a great deal on exceptional budgets, but which seems unable to ensure the structural financing of our integrated, two-tiered police. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, recourse to the private sector also has a cost. Guardianship societies are not philanthropic associations and they seek profit - it is quite normal. This benefit is integrated into the invoice that will be presented to the customer, which will often be the police area, and therefore the municipalities. In my view, it is once again a transfer of burdens from the federal government to the communes that this bill masks, colleagues. For me, however, the very principle of a two-tiered police is a little blurred. The role of the federal police is to provide the areas with the technical and material support they may need on an ad hoc basis. They should not have to turn to the private sector to obtain these services. It is the very principle of solidarity between the federal and the local that is being undermined. This raises a second question of principle: that of two-speed security between those who will have the means to use these private security services and those who will not. The Council of State makes this clear by quoting clearly article 12 of the 1789 Declaration of Human Rights: "The guarantee of human and citizen rights requires a public force. This force is therefore instituted for the benefit of all and not for the particular benefit of those to whom it is entrusted." That is enough to say that for this founding text, police and security are essentially the business of the public. I'm continuing with the use of force. You are telling us, Minister, that "guardians will have no more rights in this area than ordinary citizens". But a simple citizen, minister, does not walk around with handcuffs. He cannot detain a person for two hours without the intervention of the police. In fact, on this subject, it is still surprising. You tell us in committee that these two hours would not count in the context of possible police custody. I think we'll talk about it next week. Police custody begins when the person is deprived of liberty. In addition, this time limit is set at the time when the possibility of a direct transaction between a merchant and a thief is discussed. In my opinion, this is not innocent. I would add that you are very broad in defining the situational circumstances in which private security officers may use a firearm, circumstances which would make it possible to smile if they were not significant of a decline in the state and inconsistencies in its management. So we put the military on the street and have the barracks guarded by private security officers who we hear armed. At the same time, the pension age of non-operational military personnel is being reduced. Tomorrow, we will probably send 60-year-old paratroopers to theatres of operation while their barracks are guarded by private security officers. This philosophy is, in my view, very curious. I will not go back to the issue of surveillance cameras, except to point out that, as far as workplaces are concerned, the project is also worrying in many ways. It is only to be hoped that the text will not lead to abuse with regard to the supervision of workers at their workplace. In addition, article 50 of your project authorizes guarding activities on the premises of union meetings - it is true outside of periods of conflict. But we still need to know when there is conflict. The limit is really very difficult to assess. In my view, trade union freedom requires that meetings be kept free from physical pressure. I would also like to touch briefly on the question of the recognition of companies already authorised in another Member State of the Union. Allow me here to doubt the excellence of controls and the similarity of expectations in the head of some countries with regard to private guarding companies. What should we think, for example, of a company approved by the Hungarian government to control the flow of migrants at its borders? International organizations active in the field have increased alarm signals about the behaviour of certain companies. There seems to be no point in relaying them here and worrying about them. This with greater vigour as your project seems to relax the control of the services on the moral qualities of the actors on the ground. It is now necessary that the services of the Inland FPS are already informed of a potential problem in order for people to be subjected to a more thorough screening. In the context we are going through, it is dangerous. The question of the training of these private agents remains. You feel that the procedures for training are too administrative. Let's say that's the perspective of the private sector, but its lobbying has really influenced you. You also organise a relaxation of control over training bodies. That's the meaning of your sections 146 to 151. It should be noted that section 147 poses a real institutional problem arising from your way of putting the private and the public on the same footing. You are considering fixing the content of the formations by royal decree. A consultation with the Communities would certainly have been welcome. This would have allowed you to realize that this formulation greatly encroaches on their skills. You set the profiles, the tags - it's normal; it's also done in medical training, for example - but you also want to fix the content. As much as this can be beneficial to the private sector, this will cause you a problem at the seventh professional level, for example. In short, a private security with wider competences, with less strictly supervised training, with a broader competence to restrict freedoms, less closely controlled, all at the expense of the federal police. Here's your plan. It is contained in this very revealing sentence, already cited in committee and taken from your explanatory statement: "Private actors can no longer be considered as subsidiary junior partners of the police forces." With this sentence, you put on the same footing the private actor and the public action. My group is of the view that the project under consideration is too much for the private sector, that it shows a costly disinvestment in federal police services, that it refers many important elements to enforcement orders and poses a real risk of violating the rights and freedoms of the people of the country in their daily lives. For these reasons, you know, we will vote against your project.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u161	Mr. Speaker, Mr.Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this bill, as you will have understood in the speeches that preceded me, is not annoyed. At the time of the indispensable professionalisation of the security professions and especially in the face of the threats that we are facing, the whole preventive, deterrent, control and repressive arsenal must be clear and adapted. The Act of 10 April 1990, known as the Tobback Act, addressed a real need for the security sector to be reorganised and professionalized. Its legal framework has enabled these needs to be addressed. But this law has undergone many changes over the last 25 years, as well as alterations, which have made it difficult to understand and apply it. On the form, minister, your bill is making a real effort of clarity, and I think, in particular, of the clear definition of private sector competencies through categorizations: generic skills, situational skills and, finally, activity-related skills, and all this makes the overall picture much clearer than in the past. Moreover, regardless of the changes that have taken place over the last 25 years, the new requirements for the security of our citizens and the new terrorist threats on our territory required a change in this area, as the priority remains to ensure police work focused on its policing and intervention tasks. It should be reaffirmed that the police are the sole holders of law enforcement and the use of coercion and violence. It is a monopoly but a democratic monopoly of the police. With this project, the monopoly is maintained unambiguously, which for our group is essential. With regard to the carrying of weapons, Minister, you have repeated this on several occasions, this project does not extend the possibility of armed guarding. The issue of the protection of private agents has not been avoided, but care has been taken not to induce them to take unnecessary risks. The carrying of weapons is permitted in this project only for the safe transport, protection of persons and the surveillance of property, static guarding, mobile guarding, intervention after alarm, in places where no one is supposed to be. We have had lengthy debates in committee, as our colleague has pointed out. The private security sector plays a strictly preventive and dissuasive role. It is already a lot, and it is necessary in the organization of our life in society. Private security is one of several security occupations. He's a useful partner in our police services. We therefore welcome the new and indispensable measures contained in this project because they guarantee the effectiveness of a comprehensive and effective security system. We will therefore support this project.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u162	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law has not been adopted overnight. There has been a lot of debate over the last two years. The hearings were particularly enriching and enlightening, as the committee chairman said. At the same time, many questions are being raised for the future. CD&V is satisfied with the present draft and will approve it, as we did in committee. In fact, it is a kind of balancing exercise between those who wanted a very large extension of powers for the private security services and those who advocated a restriction of those powers. What is also very important for our party is that, as our colleague has just said, the exercise of coercion and violence is in principle reserved for the police. It should be stressed that, with regard to the arms trade and the generic powers, this draft law does not change anything except in specific situations in relation to military sites or certain international institutions and embassies. Those who read this draft for the first time and afterwards must ask themselves whether this is not inextricably linked to the core task debate on the role of the police and how the security of citizens should be organised. That was also the interesting thing about all the discussions. What has not yet been discussed here is that there is undoubtedly a price tag attached to this, especially for local authorities. Who can be against more security? Indeed, for a year or two the world has changed and the population expects much more from local governments, but the budgetary contours are what they are. Anyone who organises events in our country already calls on private security services, but that also has a cost. It should also be noted that we are very pleased that our amendment on the introduction of the annual report, which will allow the work of the inspection services and the infringements detected and the proposals to improve the law to be evaluated and, perhaps, updated, was unanimously adopted in committee. Legislation is ultimately a living story, as I always say. One must dare to evaluate and see where to adjust. Our group will be delighted to approve this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u163	Mr President, Mr Vice-Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, more than ten years ago, in 2006, the then Minister for the Interior, Mr Dewael, wrote a letter on the administrative stool of the police. During the previous legislature, 2010-2014, this issue was also addressed in detail. Hearings were held in Parliament on the possible transfer of police duties to the private sector. Following these hearings, Open Vld submitted a legislative proposal which included a concrete list of police tasks to be carried out. In this legislature, we retabled that bill. Hearings were held again, Mr Vice-Prime Minister, Mr President of the Commission. During the discussion it was said that it had to be rather quick, but actually a lot of time was spent in this debate. A lot of people have been heard. It is now time, and we are happy to vote on it and conclude it. Many of our proposals were accepted in the draft before the vote this evening. We are pleased to see that. I would therefore like to thank you, Mr Vice-President, for your cooperation. During the discussion in our committee, and also today, we heard a lot of criticism of the draft from our Socialist colleagues. I said at the time and I repeat that they seem to have forgotten that the previous coalition agreement, the Di Rupo government agreement, included the following: "Solutions are sought to free the police from certain administrative, but also operational tasks, so that the police can concentrate on the core tasks. In the previous legislature, there was no landing at that point. Other steps have been taken. Open Vld then participated in the restructuring of the sector. More stringent licensing requirements were imposed. There was also a limited system of subcontracting and 25 additional auditors were recruited in the previous legislature. It also provided a framework for the extension of certain powers of the surveillance agents, e.g. surveillance at industrial sites or systematic control at airports. This was already decided during the previous legislature. Why do we think this design is so important? The starting point is to work together to create a safer society at an acceptable cost. Private surveillance is recognised through this text as a full player in security policy. Indeed, the awareness has grown that public security as the core task of the government cannot simply be put off against private security. For almost 20 years, the concept of complete safety has been in place. This means that the citizen's demand for security is wider than action against crime; it also extends to the feeling of insecurity and nuisance. A second element in integrated safety is the fact that we have a safety chain, including prevention and aftercare. A third element is the fact that public-private cooperation on security should be possible. A second important concept in this debate is modal security. This means that not only the public authorities must guarantee security, but also business and private actors must be involved. It is a story of outsourcing, in which the government, while maintaining control, can outsource a number of security tasks to the private sector. This draft establishes a clear regulatory framework which clearly defines the tasks and powers, the detailed implementing rules, the evaluation possibilities and the possibilities for adjustment. In implementing the law, we will have to keep an eye on the following objectives. Are we achieving more security? Is there a certain cost advantage? Is there broad employability and more flexibility? And, very important to us, is job creation, integration into the labour market and reduction of workload for police and other authorities? We will be able to measure all this in the annual report, my fellow Members of the Committee on Budgetary Control. The objective is to strengthen operational capacity and police presence. For years, we have been advocating three tracks in the key tasks debate for the police: firstly, the definition of key tasks; secondly, internal reorganisation and modernisation of the police; thirdly, the transfer of tasks to third parties, including the private sector. Ladies and gentlemen, the sector of private security offers a great deal of employment. We heard that ten days ago. It is also important that they work very hard on the use of employment opportunities. Figures from the Professional Insurance Association for Surveillance Companies show that last year, 2016, were one in three over 45s. Often it was also low-skilled people who found a job in the sector. In addition, the sector also invests actively in new technology to be able to target people more effectively. In short, this text and the proposals that have been added to it are in line with this government's vision to reduce the public debt and promote private employment wherever possible. The government must modernise and a modern government must deal with its core tasks. In addition to the legislative proposal and after the hearings, we have drafted an amendment. We have added a number of additional tasks. I quote three: the sweeps that are also in the design; the training and use of dogs and the use of technical means for third parties. For this last point, I would like to refer to an example from my region, namely the pilot project in Nieuwpoort and Ypres at the commemoration ceremony of 100 years of World War I. This is a very good example of how successful it can be if the government and the private sector get together and monitor a very important event with high technology in the interests of our citizens and everyone who was there. I conclude, Mr President. The work is not finished with the approval. I repeat, the proof of the pudding is in the eating. It is not because the private sector will be able to carry out a particular task or competence that this will happen in practice. We will have to evaluate to what extent the tasks that are now being released can also be carried out by the private sector. Open Vld will, in any case, follow that closely and consider whether the law on the police office might also need to be amended in the future. We would also like to look over the wall, to our Dutch colleagues, because there the Council of Commissioners, like our Permanent Committee of the Local Police, has an agreement with the Dutch security industry, the equivalent of our BVBO. Together they have made a publication on ten steps in public-private cooperation on security care, a kind of collection of good practices in police-private cooperation. We'll investigate those slopes further. Finally, I would like to thank all my fellow Members for their good cooperation in the Committee on the Interior. The Open Vld Group will approve the present draft with great enthusiasm.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u164	Mr President, for the sp.a, security concerns are for everyone a task of the government. Whoever imposes the rules must also enforce them. This raises the question of where the limits are for outsourcing that supervision and its enforcement. What is the private sector allowed to do and what is not? How should the public and private sectors relate to each other? In our view, the answer to all these questions must be based on three fundamental principles. Firstly, security must always be guaranteed; secondly, everyone has the right to equal treatment in safety care; thirdly, safety care must be democratically organised. Let me start with the first point, safety. The question that arises here is the following. Does private security increase safety or the sense of security? The least one can say is that the presence of a uniform with a different color than the present blue can cause confusion. People may wonder who is actually allowed or wrongly assumed to be allowed to carry out what the police can and can do. A while ago there was an article in De Tijd about Securitas. There too, it is not always clear to people who, for example, may or may not search. We'll make a new distinction. Security officers are trained and screened differently and will receive a different wage than the salary a police inspector receives. In some cases, it may be about people who have been refused the job in the government as police inspector. In addition, private companies will not have the same capacity as the police in many tasks. The question then is whether these tasks will or can be carried out with the same efficiency. Ladies and gentlemen, for the record, we believe that arms and the use of force must remain a monopoly of the police. Fortunately, the draft agrees, but incidents will undoubtedly occur. I cannot see clearly how this is going to be dealt with in the proposal. However, that is very important. Our colleague from the Open Vld Group has just repeated the proverb: the proof of the pudding is in the eating. Actually, I'm having a hard time with this. We do not know what awaits us, we do not play with the safety of people. I would like to touch on my second point, particularly equality. Colleagues have already tried it. In our view, there is a risk that there will be greater inequality between associations, since larger events, but also businesses and citizens, will be able to call on security firms, even though this will not be financially possible in other cases. As mayor, for example, it is impossible to expect a village carnival or a smaller event to bear these costs. There is therefore a risk that such events will disappear. Ladies and gentlemen, safety is a basic right for all. We've got to watch our backs. On the one hand, we are discussing a key task debate, on the other hand, we want the police to work more efficiently and to be closer to the population. This doesn't rhyme with each other. We fear that, for financial reasons, key tasks of the police will be limited to the reactive and repressive part of the police work. This would mean that the focus on prevention and aftercare would disappear. In this way the police become a fire police and no longer a community-oriented police with and between the citizens. However, the Community police were introduced in the police reform to strengthen the link between police and population. It means that the police are socially well integrated and primarily responds to the needs of the population and cooperates with them. In addition, there is a risk of creating a dual safety concern. Anyone who pays will receive private and police care, and those who do not pay will have to pay with a slimming police care, which will also be overloaded with the follow-up of private security care if they are at the end of their powers. I come to my third point, ladies and gentlemen, about the democratic organisation of security. The public authorities must also remain in control when it comes to outsourcing. In other words, there must be control. The control of surveillance firms is mainly a matter for the Minister to withdraw their licence and for inspections to be carried out. However, this control is less direct than the control that a minister can exercise over a public service. It is important to note that the Council of State rightly notes that Article 101 of the Constitution states that ministers are responsible to the Chamber of Representatives. Guaranteeing public security and maintaining order are one of the essential tasks of the government and thus also one of its most important duties. The responsibility of the Minister shall be weakened as soon as the security orders relating to the protection of goods and persons are no longer exclusively the responsibility of the authorities responsible for security. If the Minister's responsibility falls, Parliament's democratic control will also be weaker than it is today. The monitoring may still be carried out through the P Committee or the I Committee, but today we are hearing cry for help because of the lack of people and resources. It has even been indicated that control will never be exercised. The question is: how will you solve this? In the end, we will lose control, with all the consequences. But where did I hear today's plea for more control and transparency? Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment tabled on an annual report does little to remedy this. On the contrary, it actually shows that there is no direct control. Moreover, there are already problems in transmitting information and collecting and keeping it up to date. Police services need to work increasingly rationally and efficiently, but how can this be achieved if all work and information are split up? The question is whether the training of private security agents will be tailored to the collection, processing and transmission of information. It is to be feared that in this way a lot of information will be lost or at least less topical and complete for the police forces. A further point, ladies and gentlemen, which has also been raised by others, is the financial aspect. We must be aware of the financial consequences of this exercise. Rejecting certain tasks does not mean that they should no longer be paid or carried out. We fear that the key tasks debate and privatisation will lead to a shift from the federal government's costs to the Länder, local authorities and police zones and perhaps eventually to associations and citizens. The question is therefore whether the outsourcing of tasks will not simply result in double costs and more, on the one hand, in the private surveillance that makes findings, on the other hand, in the police who will have to act afterwards. This is more likely to result in higher costs than if the tasks were simply carried out by the police. I would also like to refer to the Council of State's remark that private actors carry out their tasks in a competitive market. Achieving profit is their ultimate goal, colleagues. Therefore, one will never perform only cost-covering orders. They will be invoiced at least at the cost which in any case is higher than that of the providing service. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, you have already heard that my group is not in favour of this proposal. I refer to the comments of the Council of State. For us, there are still many unresolved questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u165	Mr Top, I do not understand something. You said earlier that you point out that people from the private security companies will earn less than police officers, and you then said that they will cost more because the cost is higher. I don't know how you'll reconcile one with another. If they earn less than the police, then of course that has to do with other training costs. What exactly are you getting at?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u166	Mr Vermeulen, perhaps you should read the report again.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u167	It was your last sentence.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u168	I didn't talk about lower wages for the security services. I have said that the security officers will work up to the limits of their assignments and that because they have less powers than the police inspectors, they will still have to pass on the assignment to police inspectors at the end of their work. In some cases, this leads to duplication of work. Ladies and gentlemen, there are still unresolved questions for us. How can we guarantee control? An annual report is not enough. How can we combat inequality between local authorities, associations, citizens and staff? How can we guarantee that the organisation will be more cost-effective than it is today? Many provisions in the text are governed by implementing acts. We have nothing against innovative technologies, of course, but the question needs to be asked, Minister, how you can put a brake on technologies that can be a threat to citizens through implementing decisions. I refer to an example from a few weeks ago. The newspaper then published an article on the use of robocops in a country in the Middle East. I would like to point out that technological developments may well get out of hand. So, ladies and gentlemen, my group does not agree with the content of the draft law. However, I would like to take a constructive look at proposals made in committee. For example, I am in favour of the bill on locksmithing tabled by Mr Demon. To my surprise and that of some of my fellow Members, that text was not retained and amended in the draft law. Since we think it is a good proposal, we ourselves are tabling an amendment inspired by Mr Demon's proposal to regulate and recognise locksmiths. We believe that it is necessary to include locksmithing in the new legislation on private security, because many abuses are currently being reported in the sector, which plays an essential role in the security of citizens and governments.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u169	Mr Top, Mr Thiébaut is asking for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u170	Mr President, I just want to make it clear that our group has found your proposal for an excellent amendment. I co-signed it. This amendment was inspired by Mr Demon's excellent bill. We are very surprised that you did not incorporate it into your bill, minister, because it is really an excellent proposal, demanded by the service professionals. We will, of course, support, as I suppose, the CD&V Group, this extremely important amendment proposal for your bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u171	As has been said, everyone today can call themselves locksmiths, even those who are not reliable, have no knowledge of matters or do not take into account confidentiality, privacy or correct commercial practices. Individuals or police inspectors who need a locksmith should be able to count on that service provider to be a trustworthy person, work with reliable and competent staff, apply correct tariffs and apply fair commercial practices. A similar sector is that of alarm installers and they are included in the new legislation on private security. For them, recognition rules have been in place for 25 years. It is therefore time, by means of this draft law on private security, to lay down the rules for locksmithing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u172	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this is a bill on which we have had lengthy discussions. I think it's happy because it's an important bill that will still change the organization of the security of our fellow citizens quite significantly. It is therefore normal to have had long debates with real differences in the vision of society – and I will return to it –, real differences in approaches to the security of our fellow citizens. We must be able to say that, during the debate, we had hearings. We had to insist, but we got them. Let's see the glass half full! We were able to consult some of the actors in the field. But we still worked at the same time. We had the hearings on Tuesday morning and voted article by article late in the afternoon and the next day. We still felt that there was pressure to move forward quickly. It is true that these debates have been taking place for a long time in the Committee on the Interior, with different texts. Colleague Lahaye-Battheu spoke again about her bill, which goes much further than the bill before us today. When the debate is sloppy and tinted with amateurism, it is said. There have been some real discussions here, certainly at the same time, but we are used to it. I regret that the question has not really been asked in terms of the necessity and organisation of security at state level or at the level of private partners, as you call them. We didn't really argue. We have not really asked ourselves any questions about the fundamental aspect of security for our fellow citizens. Should it remain a sovereign, public competence? Can it be considered that some parts should be transferred to private actors, with all the consequences that this may have? As ecologists, we are committed to ensuring that this remains a legitimate skill and that it remains in the public domain. We have repeated this on many occasions in committee. This is not your opinion, Mr Minister, nor that of your majority, but we could have gone further into this fundamental debate for the organisation of safety and for the quality of life of the eleven million Belgians. I would like to return to some important points for us. First, the security environment and budgetary developments in recent years. With respect to the current security environment, I will learn nothing from anyone by saying that the security environment has changed and that the level of threat is not the same. We've lived many weeks at Level 4 and we're still at Level 3. The terrorist threat exists in us and in other European countries. This context has an obvious influence on the work of police officers who are subject to new tasks, new pressures, specific implications for the level of threat. Most services are overloaded, under heavy pressure. This causes stress, burn-outs, increasingly impossible working hours, a high rate of absenteeism, illness, which results from this increased workload due to the context we know. I would also like to recall the context of massive disinvestment that has plagued our police services for years. Between 2010 and 2015, whether under the Leterme, Di Rupo and Michel governments, budgets have been falling steadily. The overall number of police officers decreased during this period by 10,000 full-time equivalents. As of November 2015, your government has reinvested, increased budgets, but to date, it is not enough to catch up with the chronic disinvestment that services have experienced in previous years. For example, at the level of police officers, this gives rise to structural deficits. I pointed out, as Commissioner General De Bolle did last October, that the structural deficit is now 15%. At the end of last year, it projected a deficit of 24% by 2019. We all agree on these findings, but not on the political responses to them! Indeed, Ecolo-Groen has always advocated for a greater increase in staff, at least to fill these frameworks, as well as for an increase in budgetary resources to achieve this objective. This morning, the second interim report of the commission of inquiry on the 22 March attacks was presented. One of the Commission's strong recommendations is to fill the ranks of the federal police in the years to come and to devote the necessary budgets to them. We therefore welcome this recommendation and hope that it will be implemented by the government. That said, the bill before us here refers to another option that is to say that we are actually facing a structural problem, an overload of the entire police service on which everyone agrees. Our answer is to partially transfer certain tasks to the private guarding sector. It is about this answer to a real problem that we have substantive differences. Mr. Vermeulen referred to the fact that, during the hearings, we heard the testimony of a representative of the Standing Committee of the Local Police (CPPL). As I recall, he said he was happy to work with private sector partners, but because he has no other choice! This is an interesting testimony to the extent that he stated that he knew that he would not have the reinforcements he needed and that, in doing so, working with private partners was a solution. I don't know if the terms I use are correct, but I think that's what he meant. In any case, that is not in contradiction with what you said, dear colleague. In any event, this reflects the discussions we have had. At one point, the police said they were going to do what they were being offered, without that being the optimal solution. I would like to stress a second point. As I mentioned in my introduction, this is the principled debate on the organisation of security in society. But we did not discuss what we wanted as a society. The Council of State identifies the same problems and therefore questions the relevance of transferring some of the police skills to the private sector. I will quickly quote some of his considerations: "It is not a priori doubtful that guaranteeing the security of persons and property has always been one of the sovereign functions of the State, within the framework of the social contract by which, through the Constitution and the laws laid down under it, the Nation - the holder of sovereignty - acquires the institutions to take over what the general interest requires." Another interesting aspect highlighted by the Council of State - which has already been mentioned - is article 12 of the Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen, whose guarantee requires a public force, "established for the benefit of all, and not for the particular benefit of those to whom it is entrusted". One last element seems particularly relevant to me. I quote again the Council of State: "There is also a difference in approach between a security intended as a mere physical execution of the decisions taken by the competent police authorities and a private security carrying out missions having a concrete impact on freedoms." And to mention the palpation of people, the search of luggage, the viewing of images as part of a video surveillance system. That is what the bill provides for. Again, we have not been able to discuss these fundamental issues. You yourself have seen in committee, and we are going to have confirmation this evening, that our political views diverged on this fundamental aspect. Then this text constitutes a box of Pandora. As some have pointed out, some skills already transferred to the private sector will be expanded. In a way, further privatisations and other transfers of skills to private custodians are being opened up. It is well known that some in this Parliament have the desire to go much further than this text. For example, your majority colleagues in the Open Vld had tabled a bill listing a whole series of jurisdictions, more than the text being debated today, which, somewhere, is a lesser evil. Fortunately, we have not made any progress on this text. The practices of other countries were discussed during the hearings. In Sweden, for example, parliament is currently discussing the transfer of national expertise such as the fight against fraud and terrorism to private officials. I am not saying that it is in your projects for the years to come, but these are practices that exist in European countries, to which reference was made during the hearings. Again, where are we going to stop? Are we not going to go ever further in privatization tomorrow, the day after tomorrow? This text is a source of serious concern to us. For us, this is a first step towards wider privatisation. I wanted to go back to another important point: democratic control. The activities of police officers and police officers are democratically controlled by the police councils, which are composed of agents elected by our fellow citizens. It is also controlled by you, Minister. You are part of a government from a democratically elected parliament. Democratic control is exercised over police officers. It's normal, and it works. This is by definition not the case for custodial companies. In the bill, you assign this oversight function to Committee P, which will actually have to play this oversight role, including through its inspection service. The same Committee P sent a letter to the members of the committee, in which he asked a series of questions. You have responded in part during our exchanges. There are still serious concerns about this control, which will not be democratic. How can we democratically control private custodians? The control mechanisms provided for in this text raise questions with the institution itself which will have to carry out this control, i.e. Committee P. We have supported in committee an amendment which proposes the submission of an annual evaluation report to parliamentarians in order to assess the impact of the law. That's a good thing. Last point concerning this democratic control: the number of complaints from citizens increased between 2015 and 2016 from 100 to 120. We also had exchanges in relation to that. Is it structural? Is this related to the increase in the number of security officers? I had 18,900 active agents. Here too, there is still a great question about this democratic control. The last important point I want to make tonight relates to the budget. This is a real question, which also took place during the hearings. This is a concern relayed by the representative of the conference of the mayors. I would point out that he was a member of the CDH, a member of the opposition to the federal government, because I was criticized in committee for using that reference. Nevertheless, his testimony was intriguing. As has already been said, local authorities will have to finance private sector workers. With what budget? Who's gonna pay the bill? Probably the citizens. There are concerns here and it is not the only mayor to issue them. It is well known that caretakers must, by definition, make a profit. Who is going to pay this extra cost? Figures were quoted in committee. I took them back here. The cost of a private agent was estimated at around 70,000 euros per year while with a police officer it is a little above, between 80 and 100,000 euros, depending on the status, training, etc. But are we talking about equal training? Equal levels of skills? That still raises this question of the budget. Who will pay this extra bill? Not to mention the profit to be generated by private custodians. Another important point concerns public procurement. Appeals to private security officers will be made through public procurement. We are well aware that too often the market is awarded to the one with the most advantageous price. In terms of security for our citizens, is this the most relevant choice? What are the guidelines that will be communicated to officers in local communities to be warned? Moreover, it is the lobby of the private guarding agents that has warned against the practice of public procurement as it is practiced today and which can pose real problems since it is a question of the safety of all our citizens. The importance of this subject should lead us to integrate more effective safeguards than it is today. I come back briefly to a subject which I have discussed at length in committee. It is important that we ask ourselves about the role of the private caretaker lobby in this text and in the discussions that we have held, because in the panel of people interviewed on Tuesday morning, we realized during the discussions that one of the people invited by the majority (only academician, criminologist and specialist in the field) was the chairman of the training committee of the APEG, the latter being the main lobby body in the field in question. This is extremely challenging and I have pointed it out to the Speaker on several occasions. At the very least, should it have been announced as such. If, for other matters, we had invited academics, for example, related to energy or nuclear, and we had found out that he was a member of the Greenpeace training committee, you would, in my view, have done a great deal and rightly so! Here we are in the presence of a very disturbing mix of genres. We also know that the management of the APEG has changed: it is a director of the Inland FPS that has become CEO of the APEG, which is not in itself a problem. The problem lies in the timing and problems associated with this law. That raises the question. We could at least ask ourselves what is the role of the private caretaker lobby in the drafting of this text. In terms of transparency, we can do much, much better. I regret this once again in plenary. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, there is a real deep divergence in terms of society's vision of this text. As I said in committee, I repeat that we absolutely cannot follow you in this vision, which is quite different from the one we are advocating in terms of security, a priority which is dear to us and which, for us, must remain in the hands of the State, in the hands of an effective public service for all our citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u173	Mr. Chair, Minister, first of all, I would like to acknowledge the effort you made with this bill to clarify and simplify. The issue of transfer of security skills and private companies is not new. The law has undergone several successive amendments which have gradually extended the powers of private companies. The principle of the transfer of certain competences is therefore not a problem as such. The development of the private security sector in the sense of professionalism, reliability and quality is a fact. Private security is taking on more and more space and it was necessary to refresh the entire legislative machinery around this topic. This development must be in line with the interests of the citizen and the State. Private security must be complementary rather than a police competitor. The police are not able to perform all current tasks properly and must be able to focus on their own essential tasks. As has been said on several occasions, it needs additional financial resources which it would allocate to missions other than the monitoring of buildings or the accompaniment of the transport of goods. We stress, however, that this transfer must meet strict conditions, i.e. be strictly and precisely regulated in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity – it does not affect the competence of the Republic of Senegal. And in the interests of the citizen, the level of quality and equality of public service must be maintained. Unfortunately, the project you are presenting, Minister, does not meet all of these criteria. As I have already said, the implementation arrangements remain vague. You state intentions, but do not specify how they will be put into practice. We are repeatedly referred to the royal decrees, but this remains unclear. You don't indicate anything about how to work with the police. For us, there are still many fears and questions. It would have been more logical to examine the draft after the debate on the core tasks of the police had been closed. You say, during the debates, that it is not a question of transferring regal competences, but of opening up possibilities. What's the limit? We know that some would like to go even further in transfers. We fear that this project will be a Pandora's box. How can we ensure that local governments will not have to bear additional costs, directly or indirectly, as already seen on the ground, through grants and increases in local government grant applications? As the Council of State noted, what about the lack of a line of command between the minister and the private sector? How do we deal with the consequences at the level of political responsibility? This is a crucial question to which we have not obtained a satisfactory answer in committee. Finally, in this bill, some areas are absent. Mr Top recalled this earlier by announcing the tabling of amendments, which we will also do. Indeed, we are thinking of the lockhouse sector. This sector was also supported by Mr. Thiébaut. Locker companies have activities similar to those of alarm systems companies. Did you know that these are already falling within the scope of the law of 10 April 1990, whereas this is not the case with lockgear companies? At present, this sector has no regulation, unlike our neighbouring countries. However, many abuses were noted and Mr. Top recalled them earlier. At the request of the sector, we will therefore also table an amendment based on Mr Demon's proposal from the CD&V, in order to ensure that the lock shop activity will be carried out safely within the limits of an approval, an authorisation and in accordance with the conditions laid down in this project, in particular with regard to the conditions of training, the absence of criminal conviction, age conditions, etc. Mr. Demon, I'm holding your pole. I hope you will take this opportunity to sign this amendment with us. In any case, I am addressing you personally. In short, for all these reasons, Minister, we are not in a position to support the reform as you proposed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u174	Mr President, although this draft law does not directly interfere with the tasks of the police, timing does not really leave much to the imagination. In committee, moreover, the Minister has explicitly said that this fits in with the so-called core tasks debate. The government wants to grant more powers to private security firms, with the aim of privatising certain police tasks later. For years, there has been a structural underfunding of the police. As a result, the services are overworked, less efficient and the false impression is given that the only solution is to devote tasks to the private sector. While the profits continue to flow to the private companies, the risks are borne by the company. Privatisation of public security will also lead to greater inequality. Rich people and associations will be able to buy security, the rest will suffer. It would be much more efficient and cheaper to give the police sufficient resources according to the revised KUL standard. The police have one purpose, in particular: to ensure public security. The main concern of private security firms is to make a profit. Police officers have to answer to all citizens, security officers only to their employer. We are also concerned about the lack of sufficient control over these companies. The police have control over quality, including by the P Committee, the General Inspection and internal control services. Under this new law private security would be mainly controlled by the FPS Home Office. The Minister may revoke permits and have inspections carried out. In addition to the two large companies, G4S and Securitas, which hold 80% of the market, a large number of small businesses are also active. The Home Office currently employs 24 inspectors to control an increasing number of security officers. The question is whether there are sufficient resources available to exercise effective control. The authorisations for surveillance company debt securities that no longer meet the authorisation criteria will not be automatically withdrawn. Also when applying for permits, the prosecutor or intelligence services will not give advice automatically, unless there is an unfavourable indication. There are problems in this sector. Small steps may have been taken at the end of 2014 and in September 2016, but it remains a sector where bad contracts and social dumping are not unusual. The staff, as well as the rest of the civilian population, are thus affected by the profits of these firms. That is why the PVDA will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u175	Mr President, I would like to thank my fellow Members from the majority and the opposition for all the comments that have been made today, but above all for the debates that we have had in committee. The advantage of having long debates in committee is that it brings little new elements into plenary. For most of the comments that have been made, therefore, I refer to the report of the committee meetings where most cases were dealt with. This bill highlights the ideological differences in this Parliament. The ideology of the left wants everything to be settled by the state, by the public sector. Another, more moderate approach is to allow the public sector to do what it needs to do, namely to maintain the monopoly on the use of violence, and to entrust other tasks, which are not particularly related to police responsibilities, to the private sector. Fortunately, this more moderate vision has the majority in this Parliament. I would like to make a few points about the content. Mr Thiébaut, as far as foreign companies are concerned, it is very clear that they must have a Belgian licence and must adapt to Belgian laws. There will be no exception for these companies. If they have obtained certificates in their country of origin, we will check them and assess the equivalence of these certificates with our requirements. This will not cause problems: the same quality and skills, the same legal framework will be required, as for Belgian companies. A lot of comments were made about control. I think that with this draft law there will be just more control over the sector. The inspection services have spent most of their time clarifying the legal uncertainty in order to make it clear to the sector in order to take a position there. This bill and all the implementing decisions that will follow will just provide more clarity, allowing inspection services to spend much more time inspecting themselves, for which they were eventually established. The inspection services belong to the FPS Home Office. They're under my control with that. They can therefore also be monitored by Parliament. We have also added that the P Committee will be able to monitor this. I would like to thank everyone, especially the services of my own cabinet and of the Home Office, who have worked hard on this law. I would also like to thank the colleagues on the committee who have been working on this for hours and hours, Mrs Lahaye-Battheu was right, for many years. I hope that this law will soon be adopted and that even people who have said that they have some doubts will still use their common sense and give the green light to this law.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u176	Minister, I have a brief reply on control. You say the law will clarify this. I agree with that, but perhaps the remark during the speech did not come across well in the sense that more tasks for private security will require more control. Any means that go to control and follow-up can't go to security. That is the fundamental point we are making about your draft.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u177	That is not entirely true, in the sense that the police are also controlled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u178	Of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u179	Both private companies and the police have control mechanisms. The shift of tasks does not mean an increase in the control workload. In both environments there is control.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u180	Mr Minister, I do not think we should indeed relaunch the whole debate that we have had in committee, as we sometimes do. Each group expresses its views. We had the opportunity to do so. You responded briefly and referred to your responses in committee. I think it's a wise position. That being said, one remark nonetheless. You are talking about a simple ideological position, with a left-wing view that everything about security must be entrusted mainly to the public authorities and a right-wing view that part of the state's security tasks can be entrusted to the private sector. Of course, we can discuss it for two hours without anyone changing their mind. But I have made another point here and in committee: you are impoverishing the federal police. This exceeds the left/right cleavage. It's a political problem you're leading. You're impoverishing the federal police. You told me in committee that as a mayor, I should be happy to be able to appeal to the private sector, for example to have a command vehicle, surveillance drones or other services that the private sector can provide. And I told you that I expect the federal government to provide these services to me, without having to pay for them to the private sector. It is not a question of left/right cleavage, but a question of impoverishment of federal services.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u181	Mr Thiébaut, you are right, this goes beyond ideological debate. For this reason, I want to intervene, because your remarks are obviously incorrect. We are investing in the federal police: 500 million in the last three years. These are structural amounts, which will therefore be maintained in the years to come. To say that we are working towards impoverishment of the federal police is not correct. We're doing the opposite!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u182	Minister, I should like to make a brief statement. Since the report of our work by the Terrorist Attacks Committee has become public since this morning, we can say in plenary that we have made two observations: that of a disinvestment in the first years of the legislature and that of a second, unanimously made, that it was necessary to invest. You're telling us that the government is back on the investment path. I reply: find in the report of the Committee of Inquiry – which I hope will be voted unanimously – the support needed to invest even more importantly and judiciously. We will not be obliged to use the private sector as you programme it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u183	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u184	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2388/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2388/4) The bill has 278 articles and an annex. The bill has 278 articles and an annex.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u185	· 4 – Isabelle Poncelet (2388/6)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u186	· 5 – Isabelle Poncelet (2388/6)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u187	· 6 – Alain Top cs (2388/6) ****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the Rule that has been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u188	Sustained: the vote on the amendments and Article 2. Article adopted by article: Articles 1, 3 to 278. Adopted article by article: articles 1, 3 to 278. ******
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u189	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 1456: Muriel Gerkens, Anne Dedry, Stefaan Van Hecke, Wouter De Vriendt, Benoit Hellings, Jean-Marc Nollet, Evita Willaert - 1759: Fabienne Winckel, André Frédéric, Özlem Özen, Daniel Senesael, Karine Lalieux, Alain Mathot. The Committee on Health, the Environment and Social Renewal proposes to reject these legislative proposals. (1456/5) The Committee on Public Health, the Environment and the Renewal of the Society proposes to reject these bills. (1456-5) Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the proposers. In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the authors. The rapporteur, Ms Catherine Fonck, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u190	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if we have asked for this proposal to be put back on the agenda of the plenary and want it to be abandoned, it is with regard to certain women and girls who find it difficult to go to pharmacy themselves to get the next day's pill they need. To meet the needs of these girls and young women, it is important that they have access to a planning centre where multidisciplinary teams of social workers and caregivers work. Through this proposal, we do not want to do anything. We don't want to distribute anything to anyone. We want to create a legal framework for the providers who give this necessary pill to do so by being in law. We want to ensure that this possibility will be respected by the federated entities that run the family planning centres and that they are protected from the political intentions or changes that may occur in the regions. The goal is really to meet the needs of these young women if we want to prevent abortions, unwanted pregnancies and ensure their good health.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u191	Mr President, I come back to talk to you about women's rights and, in particular, the importance of the right to dispose of our body. This is something fundamental, especially in a context where this right is constantly being challenged all over the world. It is sometimes ostensibly, but sometimes also more insidious. That is the case with us, too. In Belgium, there are proposals for early prenatal recognition of the father, sometimes to lower the threshold for recognition of children born without life. It is not the Prime Minister's failure to respond to my current question this afternoon that will reassure me. This right of women to dispose of their bodies must therefore be defended tirelessly, as must the right to abortion and access to contraception. Precisely, the family planning centres are, in this context, valuable partners. These are places where everyone can find help in terms of sexual and emotional life. They are also essential for girls and women who are precarised or fragile. Doctors are working on it to deliver the contraceptive pill or the next day's pill. Unfortunately, they are not permanently present. It is therefore difficult to always be able to meet the – sometimes urgent – needs of each, unless it is illegal to operate. So this is a reality that we cannot pretend to be ignorant of. Since this situation is known, my group believes that it is important to propose a solution. In this case, the aim is to enable family planning centres to carry out their missions as best they can and to provide their staff with the capacity to respond effectively to emergency situations, including by providing access to the next day's pill. Unfortunately, our bill was rejected by the majority. It was simply intended to help family planning centres to continue to give legal access – even in the absence of a doctor – to emergency contraception only to young women who request it. It is a proposal simply to guarantee access to women's right to contraception. It's a very simple and perfectly framed proposal. I must admit that our proposal was much less broad than that of our colleagues in Ecolo-Groen. They were quite different. Ours only concerned the delivery of the next day's pill. A pill of the following day which, according to the WHO, is not likely to present a health hazard, under normal conditions of use, contrary to the contraceptive pill which must in fact be the subject of a specific medical supervision, in view of the side effects that it may cause. I really regret that the Minister of Health is not here today. It shows a bit of the logical sequence of everything we've had. Besides, the minister's leaving. That's perfect! Shouldn't he answer? You really see how important this is to the government. That's deplorable!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u192	This is not created by the right to speak, Mr Thiéry! Only the rapporteur and the authors can speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u193	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister De Block considered the next day's pill to be a hormonal bomb. As a doctor, she is far from telling the truth! That's disturbing. She was simply trying to justify her position in this case. Because what she describes as a hormonal bomb can be delivered with or without prescription in a pharmacy. Above all, and this is where his arguments no longer hold, this hormonal bomb is on the Internet, via online pharmacies, where no contact is possible between the buyer and a healthcare professional. We were very disappointed with this situation. There have been many unsaid and we find ourselves in a situation where the next day's pill needs to be delivered in an emergency. The planning centres are working illegally for the time being and the aim here was to give them a framework in which they can work to avoid unwanted pregnancies and to avoid abortions. I really regret that this proposal has not been supported by the majority. I also regret the lack of seriousness in committee work because the minister was rarely present in the debates. She only came once when the subject was worth it. It is a contempt for parliament, family planning centres and the situation of women!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u194	No other speaker may speak. No one can speak any more. The vote on the proposal to reject these legislative proposals will take place at a later date. The vote on the proposal to reject these bills will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u195	As a result of the resignation of Ms Camille Dieu, a sixth call for candidates for a mandate of female French-speaking member of the Federal Deontological Commission for the category "Former Members of the Chamber of Representatives and/or the Senate" was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 25 April 2017, in accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 20 April 2017. Following the resignation of Camille Dieu, a sixth call for candidates for a French-speaking female member of the Federal Ethics Commission for the category "Former members of the House of Representatives and/or the Senate" appeared in the Moniteur belge of 25 April 2017, in accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 20 April 2017. The following application was submitted within the prescribed period: Ms Marie José Laloy. The following candidacy was submitted within the prescribed time limit: Ms. Marie José Laloy. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 7 June 2017, Ms Marie José Laloy's curriculum vitae will be delivered to the political groups. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 7 June 2017, Ms Marie José Laloy's curriculum vitae will be forwarded to the political groups. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u196	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 7 June 2017 and at the request of the author, I propose the proposal for a resolution (Mr Veli Yüksel and Mrs Els Van Hoof) on a more effective punishment for authors of hateful messages on social media, No. 2448/1, to be referred to the Temporary Committee on Counter-Terrorism. This proposal was previously sent to the Justice Commission. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 7 June 2017 and at the request of the author, I propose that you refer to the Temporary Committee on the Fight against Terrorism, the motion for a resolution (Mr Veli Yüksel and Ms Els Van Hoof) aimed at penalising more effectively the perpetrators of hate messages on social media, No 2448/1. This proposal had previously been referred to the Committee on Justice. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u197	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 7 June 2017, I also propose that you consider: - the legislative proposal (Mr Roel Deseyn, Mr Stefaan Vercamer, Mr Servais Verherstraeten and Mr Franky Demon) amending the Income Tax Code 1992 as regards the granting of an increase in the tax-free allowance for dependent persons, No. 2506/1; - the bill (Mr Roel Deseyn, Mr Servais Verherstraeten, Mr Stefaan Vercamer and Mr Franky Demon) amending the Income Tax Code 1992 as regards foreign income subject to the progression reservation, No. 2507/1; - the motion for a resolution (Mrs Meyrem Almaci and Mr Kristof Calvo, Georges Gilkinet and Jean-Marc Nollet) on the establishment of a national incentive bank, No. 2509/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u198	- the legislative proposal (Mr Veli Yüksel) amending the law of 5 August 1991 on the import, export and transit of and the fight against illicit trafficking in arms, ammunition and equipment and related technology specially suitable for military use or for law enforcement in order to improve the control of brokering, 2510/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u199	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 7 June 2017, I also propose that you take into account: - the bill (MM. Roel Deseyn, Stefaan Vercamer, Servais Verherstraeten and Franky Demon) amending the Income Tax Code 1992 with regard to the granting of an increase in the amount of income exempt from tax for dependants, No 2506/1; - the bill (MM. Roel Deseyn, Servais Verherstraeten, Stefaan Vercamer and Franky Demon) amending the Income Tax Code 1992 with regard to foreign income subject to the progressive reserve, No. 2507/1; - the motion for a resolution (Ms Meyrem Almaci and MM. Kristof Calvo, Georges Gilkinet and Jean-Marc Nollet) on the establishment of a national development bank, No 2509/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u200	- the proposal for a law (Mr Veli Yüksel) amending the Act of 5 August 1991 on the import, export, transit and fight against trafficking in arms, ammunition and equipment intended specifically for military use or for the maintenance of law and order and related technology, in order to improve the control of brokering activities, No 2510/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u201	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u202	Vote on Amendment No 84 by Olivier Maingain to insert recital B/1 (n). (2055/10) Vote on Amendment No 84 by Olivier Maingain to insert a recital B/1(n). (2055/10) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 50 Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 130 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u203	Mr President, I wish to justify my abstention by stating that I have accompanied Mrs Nawal Ben Hamou in all the votes at the sitting.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u204	Vote on Amendment No 81 by Georges Dallemagne to omit recital C (2055/10) Vote on Amendment No 81 by Georges Dallemagne to delete Recital C. (2055/10) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / Fin du vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 13 Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 40 Abstensions Total 131 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Mrs Van Cauter voted against. Vote on Amendment No 82 by Georges Dallemagne to insert a recital P(n). (2055/10) Vote on amendment No 82 by Georges Dallemagne to insert a recital P(n). (2055/10) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 52 Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 131 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 89 by Olivier Maingain to introduce an application 1(n). (2055/10) Vote on Amendment No 89 by Olivier Maingain to insert a request 1(n). (2055/10) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 52 Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 132 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 74 by Marco Van Hees on request 1. (2055/10) Vote on Amendment No 74 by Marco Van Hees at the request 1. (2055/10) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Yes No. 127 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 132 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 75 by Marco Van Hees to insert a request 2/1(n). (2055/10) Vote on amendment No 75 by Marco Van Hees to insert a request 2/1(n). (2055/10) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Yes No. 98 No Abstentions 32 Abstensions Total 132 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 65 of Gwenaëlle Grovonius cs on request 4. (2055/9) Vote on Amendment No 65 by Gwenaëlle Grovonius cs at the request 4. (2055/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 49 Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 131 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 68 by Dirk Van der Maelen on request 4. (2055/10) Vote on Amendment No 68 by Dirk Van der Maelen at the request 4. (2055/10) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes 50 Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 132 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 72 from Veerle Wouters cs on request 5. (2055/10) Vote on amendment No 72 by Veerle Wouters cs at the request 5. (2055/10) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes 4 Yes No. 125 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 132 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 76 by Marco Van Hees on request 8. (2055/10) Vote on Amendment No 76 by Marco Van Hees at the request 8. (2055/10) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes [[28]] Yes No. 91 No Abstentions 12 Abstensions Total 131 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Vote on Amendment No 85 by Olivier Maingain introducing an application 8/1(n). (2055/10) Vote on Amendment No 85 by Olivier Maingain to insert a request 8/1(n). (2055/10) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u205	Yes 52 Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 132 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 73 of Veerle Wouters cs for omission of request 9. (2055/10) Vote on amendment No 73 by Veerle Wouters cs to delete the request 9. (2055/10) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u206	Yes 4 Yes No. 107 No Abstentions 21 Abstensions Total 132 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Vote on Amendment No 66 by Gwenaëlle Grovonius cs on request 9. (2055/9) Vote on Amendment No 66 by Gwenaëlle Grovonius cs at the request 9. (2055/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 13) Yes 50 Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 132 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Vote on Amendment No 69 by Dirk Van der Maelen on request 9. (2055/10) Vote on Amendment No 69 by Dirk Van der Maelen at the request 9. (2055/10) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 50 Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 131 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Vote on Amendment No 86 by Olivier Maingain on request 9. (2055/10) Vote on Amendment No 86 by Olivier Maingain at the request 9. (2055/10) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 15) Yes [[20]] Yes No. 86 No Abstentions 25 Abstensions Total 131 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Vote on Amendment No 78 by Marco Van Hees on request 10. (2055/10) Vote on amendment No 78 by Marco Van Hees at the request 10. (2055/10) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 16) Yes [[22]] Yes No. 99 No Abstentions 10 Abstensions Total 131 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Vote on Amendment No 70 by Dirk Van der Maelen on request 10. (2055/10) Vote on Amendment No 70 by Dirk Van der Maelen at the request 10. (2055/10) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 17) Yes 49 Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 130 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Mrs Grovonius voted in favour. Vote on Amendment No 79 by Marco Van Hees introducing a request 10/1(n). (2055/10) Vote on amendment No 79 by Marco Van Hees to insert a request 10/1(n). (2055/10) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u207	Yes 23 Yes No. 98 No Abstentions 10 Abstensions Total 131 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 80 by Marco Van Hees to insert a request 10/2(n). (2055/10) Vote on amendment No 80 by Marco Van Hees to insert a request 10/2(n). (2055/10) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u208	Yes [[18]] Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 31 Abstensions Total 128 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Mr Chastel voted against, Mr Laaouej voted in favour. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 83 from Georges Dallemagne to insert a request 19/1(n). (2055/10) Vote on Amendment No 83 by Georges Dallemagne to insert a request 19/1(n). (2055/10) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u209	Yes 51 Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 131 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Mrs Gerkens voted in favour. Vote on Amendment No 67 from Barbara Pas cs to insert a request 20/1(n). (2055/10) Vote on amendment No 67 by Barbara Pas cs to insert a request 20/1(n). (2055/10) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u210	Yes 4 Yes No. 127 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 132 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 71 by Dirk Van der Maelen cs inserting a request 20/1(n). (2055/10) Vote on Amendment No 71 by Dirk Van der Maelen cs to insert a request 20/1(n). (2055/10) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u211	Yes 51 Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 131 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 77 by Marco Van Hees introducing a request 20/1(n). (2055/10) Vote on Amendment No 77 by Marco Van Hees to insert a request 20/1(n). (2055/10) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u212	Yes 9 Yes No. 101 No Abstentions 21 Abstensions Total 131 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 87 by Olivier Maingain introducing a request 20/1(n). (2055/10) Vote on Amendment No 87 by Olivier Maingain to insert a request 20/1(n). (2055/10) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u213	Yes [[21]] Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 28 Abstensions Total 132 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 88 by Olivier Maingain introducing a request 20/2(n). (2055/10) Vote on Amendment No 88 by Olivier Maingain to insert a request 20/2(n). (2055/10) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u214	Yes [[47]] Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 129 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Mr Thiébaut, Ms Özen and Mr Demeyer voted in favour. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u215	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u216	Yes 108 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 24 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (2055/11) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (2055/11) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u217	Mr President, it will not have escaped you that, in accordance with what Mr Dallemagne said earlier, my group voted for the motion for a resolution, but that I abstained, on behalf of the Group, in view of the interesting debates this afternoon which have revealed promises, but also weaknesses. Sometimes there was a sense of involvement in an internal Belgian-Belgian debate, in which federated entities were sometimes targeted by forgetting the obligations of the federal government. Our will is to see our Foreign Minister take the lead at the level of the European Council of Ministers, so that the effects of last year's European Parliament resolution will come to fruition. Indeed, if we really want to achieve a result, it is at this level that the measures must be discussed, negotiated and, above all, endorsed. Finally, we really want Parliament to begin a reflection as soon as possible on the whole of our relations with Saudi Arabia, whether it be on arms, whether it is on economic or commercial matters, whether it is on the financing of our mosques that can have an impact on terrorism in our country. These are all things that have been said this afternoon, which have been promised, particularly by the Foreign Minister, and which we want to see implemented as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u218	Vote on Amendment No 4 by Isabelle Poncelet on Article 2. (2388/6) Vote on Amendment No 4 by Isabelle Poncelet to Article 2. (2388/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 27) Yes 50 Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 132 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Mr Laaouej voted in favour. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 5 by Isabelle Poncelet to insert an article 6a(n). (2388/6) Vote on Amendment No 5 by Isabelle Poncelet to insert an Article 6bis(n). (2388/6) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u219	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 6 by Alain Top cs to insert an article 7a(n). (2388/6) Vote on Amendment No 6 by Alain Top cs to insert an Article 7a(n). (2388/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 28) Yes 51 Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 133 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u220	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 29) Yes 79 Yes No. [[47]] No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 129 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2388/7) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2388/7) Mrs Lanjri voted like her group. MM. Devin and Laaouej voted against. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u221	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u222	Mr President, I will use this opportunity to justify why we are going to vote against it. Once again, whether in the gallery or from the Ecolo ranks, we have been the victims of misinformation – I want to make it known. I even heard... [[Brouhahaha]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u223	Let Mr. Thiéry speak!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u224	I even heard someone in the gallery say that the minister didn't care. Honestly, I find it insulting. I would like to refer to a press release by Minister De Block on 19 May. She recalled that the next day's pill had to be delivered by a pharmacist or a doctor to guarantee – to guarantee! – patient safety. I would like to add two considerations. Family planning centres can always deliver the next day's pill. I would remind you that it was the president of the Federation of Family Planning Centres who asked that we stop giving false and unpunished information, because it is creating a problem for the young girls who need it! Finally, I hear it's easier to provide the next day's pill in a family planning centre than in a pharmacy. That's interesting! Indeed, I would be curious to know what some pharmacists who work in clinics opening twenty-four out of twenty-four so that everyone can benefit from it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u225	Mr President, I will not respond to what I have just heard. I will simply justify our vote. We shall abstain from voting on these two texts as they stand. Why? Because their approach generalizes the passage of all contraceptives into self-service in too broad a way. So much we are in favour of the delivery of the next day's pill in family planning, as much we think as on the contrary, with regard to conventional long-term contraceptive treatment with side effects and repercussions, this kind of treatment must remain within the framework of pharmacies. We proposed to amend one of the texts to limit it to the next day's pill. But, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, as you used to vote in the first article to reject the proposals, we have not been able to do so. So, Mr. Chairman, this is our justification for abstention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u226	Mr President, this is not disinformation at all. It's really a problem on the ground. From the moment you can buy a pill the next day – because our proposal only concerns the pill the next day – on the internet without a medical prescription, without contact between a pharmacist and the person who asks for it, I find it completely aberrant not to give the possibility to the family planning centers that are in demand, to deliver it. I do not agree with Mr Thiéry at all. The planning centres are against this measure by Mrs De Block and against the fact that she does not move. It is still unthinkable not to allow them the opportunity to respond to situations of women and young women in distress and to deliver them the pill the next day. I really invite you to reconsider your position!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u227	Mr President, as a justification for the vote, I would like to reply to Mr Thiéry and tell him that the misinformation comes from him. If the centers can still distribute this pill, it's only thanks to the samples. Otherwise, doctors are illegal. Tomorrow, the Walloon Parliament will also vote a motion calling for the federal to change the law of May 2015 to allow the distribution of the next day's pill into family planning centres, even in the absence of doctors, at the request of the planning federations.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u228	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 30) Yes 81 Yes No. [[40]] No Abstentions 10 Abstensions Total 131 Total Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The Bill No. 1456/1 was therefore rejected. Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Bill No. 1456/1 is therefore rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u229	Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u230	Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The Bill No. 1759/1 was therefore rejected. Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Bill No. 1759/1 is therefore rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-08-54-plenair-ip172x.u231	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 15 June 2017. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, 15 June 2017. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 15 June 2017 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting on Thursday, 15 June 2017, at 2.15 p.m.
