ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u1	The next item is the oral questions to the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Security and Home Affairs. Debates of the European Parliament 20256 by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament 20844 by Mrs Smeyers has been on several occasions. Mrs Smeyers is not here and, like this morning, has nothing to say. Its question will therefore be withdrawn on the basis of Article 127, 10°, of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Gabriels' 21019 will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Gabriels' 21020 will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament 21108 by Mr Delizée was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament 21122 of myself is converted into a written question. By the way, I already got the answer last week when I thought I had converted it. Debates of the European Parliament 21176 and Question No Mr Terwingen (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I shall now give the floor to Mr Top to develop his interplay. After that, I will merge my question on the criminal motorcycle gangs with Mr Terwingen's question on the same subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u2	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to keep this interplay in the light of statements made by the Antwerp OCMW President, Mr Duchateau, and your intention to allow exceptions to this method prohibited by law, in particular the use of private investigators in the detection of wage fraudsters. Mr Minister, the Antwerp OCMW chairman, Mr Duchateau, refers to the so-called Dutch system, whereby local authorities use private investigators to detect wage fraudsters. It would be a very successful way of working, the President said. However, the Dutch system does not exist. Municipalities that still engaged a private investigator in the Netherlands were convicted by the court for violating the Dutch Participation Act of 9 October 2003. This is also prohibited in Belgium, under the law regulating the profession of private investigator. Thus the Committee for the Protection of the Personal Life. However, this law also provides for an exception: the use of private investigators can be explicitly authorised by the Minister of the Interior. Through your spokesperson, we learned that obtaining the consent would be merely a formality. More than registering in the cabinet or with the FOD is not necessary, according to your spokesperson. The ban on the use of private detectives and the explicit permission for exceptions thereto, which are described by your cabinet as a formality, I would like to interpret you on this issue. I'd like your opinion on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u3	Mr Top, Article 13 of the Law of 19 July 1991 regulating the profession of private investigator provides that the private investigator is prohibited from carrying out his activities for the benefit of persons governed by public law, subject to the permission of the Minister of the Interior. With regard to the special authorisation, the following principles must be observed. First of all, it's the private investigator who needs the permission and not the public legal entity. Secondly, the special authorization must precede the actual performance of the contract. Thirdly, the authorisation is given on a case-by-case basis and is therefore limited to one contract and to one contract for a certain period of time. Whether or not to grant the particular authorisation to the private investigator concerned is discretionary. Until now, the administration was not allowed to receive applications from private investigators until the special authorisation was obtained in the context of the aforementioned problem in the context of living wage fraudsters. If a detective were to submit an application, such as when examining each application for the special authorisation, the opportunity and legality of the use of private detectives for such applications will be verified. Moreover, in the context of such applications, it is always checked whether the client is entitled to obtain the information for which he wishes to appoint a detective. It follows from the examination of the above information that the granting of a special authorisation to a private investigator for the purpose of carrying out activities for the benefit of persons governed by public law is more than mere formality or notification of the activity.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u4	Minister, I understand that there are indeed no applications yet and that these have to be made by the detective himself. My fear remains, however, and through a motion of recommendation I would like to ask you to commit yourself to this exception if private investigators were to apply for it in the cases as indicated by the Antwerp OCMW not to allow and withdraw it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u5	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Alain Top and reads as follows: "The Chamber, President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Security and Home Affairs, with responsibility for the Directorate of Buildings, - having regard to the incorrect references to the Dutch system, - having regard to the various convictions in the Netherlands for breach of the Participation Act of 9 October 2003, - having regard to the Law of 19 July 1991 regulating the profession of private investigators; Asks the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Security and Home Affairs, in charge of the Directorate of Buildings - undertake not to allow and therefore withdraw the exemption requested by private investigators for the Antwerp OCMW.' A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Alain Top and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Alain Top and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Security and Interior, responsible for the Régie des Bâtiments, - having regard to erroneous references to the Dutch system; - having regard to the various convictions handed down in the Netherlands following violations of the Act of 9 October 2003 on participation; - having regard to the Act of 19 July 1991 organizing the profession of private investigator; asks the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Security and Interior, responsible for the Régie des Bâtiments - undertake not to accede to the request for an exception made by private investigators for the Antwerp CPAS and, therefore, to delete this exception." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Conseil Degroote. A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Koenraad Degroote. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u6	Mr President, Minister, at the SuperMinister's Council of 15 May 2017, it was decided to put fingerprints on the e-ID in the future. According to the information provided to us, placing these fingerprints on the ID card cannot be online and the citizen must register physically at the local office. As a follow-up to the latter, the decision not to continue the pilot project on the online application of an e-lD is part of the framework. For example, we were informed by the services of the State Register. Since a physical application is needed for fingerprinting, rolling out and investing in online applications is apparently useless. This is a practical question. This will take a lot of time and resources from the municipalities; I refer to the applications for identity cards. I take the example of my own city of Harelbeke. In 2016, 6 445 electronic adult identity cards were requested, 964 for children and 233 electronic alien cards were delivered. That is good for a total of about 7 500 applications and deliveries. The fact that taking a fingerprint takes a minute, and therefore two forefingers two minutes, means that more than 15,000 minutes, i.e. 255 hours. That means more than a full month of working days for fingerprinting alone, at least if everything goes well. If there are any problems, the time is still running out. Therefore, Minister, it is logical that I, as mayor, as a representative of a municipality, have some concerns about this and would like to ask questions about it. Firstly, can you give an update on this dossier and this decision? Secondly, do the municipalities receive support in implementing this plan? If yes, in what form? Thirdly, is there any possibility of taking the fingerprints only when the first application is made, as far as I know, that fingerprints will not be changed and that the online method will be used for the following requests, as was done in the pilot's journey at the time?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u7	Mr Top, indeed, as you pointed out, the SuperMinister's Council of Sunday 14 May 2017 decided to put fingerprints on the new generation of identity cards, after the necessary changes to the legislation, which will of course be submitted to the Privacy Commission first. This new generation of identity cards is provided from 2019. It is true that the registration of the fingerprints at the local office will take extra time to apply for the card. For the sake of clarity, I would like to add that no fingerprint will be recorded on the Kids ID. However, the impact of the registration of fingerprints on the contact points from 2019 should not be overestimated. The year 2016 was another top year on the renewal of the e-ID. However, as the validity of the e-ID was extended from five years to ten years on 1 March 2014, very few cards will expire in the period from 1 March 2019 to 2023. The transitional period has been extended from five to ten years. The identity cards that expire are only identity cards of children with an e-ID that is only valid for six years. Consequently, the total number of applications to be processed will be very low. For example, the statistics for the municipality of Harelbeke show that, between 2019 and 2023, on average, around 400 e-IDs per year will expire. The extra time needed to take fingerprints in the fight against identity fraud is therefore many times smaller than the time saved by the small amount of eID renewals during those years. You are counting on 6 000 innovations, but they will only be 400 innovations. People will have time left. During those years, my services, together with the user group, will be able to evaluate this and see where the municipalities can be further supported in the period after 2023. Then the transition period ends. In the period from 2024 to 2028 there will again be a greater influx of e-ID renewals. Finally, since at the SuperMinister Council of Sunday 14 May 2017, the fingerprints are only stored on the card's chip and not in a central database, what you are asking for is not possible. We do not know what will happen in X years, but for now we have decided that the fingerprints will be recorded on the card and that no database will be created. If one were to decide to store fingerprints centrally in the future, an online application would only be useful when the first fingerprints cards expire. Given the validity of 10 years and the rapid technological evolution, this is still a long way off. It is therefore premature to work on it now. If it would become relevant, my services will review the online requests for e-IDs by then. The transitional period will run from 2019. We will see what technology will allow after that and whether the ideas have evolved in the meantime. Will fingerprints be stored centrally? That is one of the elements that we will be able to think about in the coming years.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u8	President: Conseil Degroote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u9	Minister, you have already given a piece of the answer, namely that until 2024 we can think about whether the spirits are ripening to store fingerprints centrally. It is true that 2016 was a top year. The workload increases due to such cases. I'm referring to the passports. The working methods there have also become more difficult for civil servants at the population offices. For this, too, fingerprints must be taken. Are they stored centrally? [[No, no, ……]] When renewing the passport, the fingerprints must therefore be taken again. I was recently at Zaventem airport and, as a resident of a European country, I found that queues for people with passports were shorter than for people with e-IDs. I have the impression that European citizens are bringing their passports to the airport to make it easier. It's a fix.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u10	Mr President, Minister, the Union libre de la fonction publique Police, quoted on 18 September by Flemish weekly Knack, said in particular that the additional trainings on defensive conduct promised in 2013 to the police officers by the then Minister of the Interior, Ms Joëlle Milquet, have still not come into being. Indeed, in 2013, Ms.Milquet promised to introduce theoretical and practical training in defensive driving in order to reduce the number of accidents involving police officers during interventions on priority vehicles. Committee P, responsible for external oversight of the police services, states in its report entitled "The driving and accidents of police vehicles", published on 22 June 2017, that "the National Police Academy (ANPA) would barely have sufficient capacity to meet the needs of members of the federal police force. It is mainly faced with a shortage of vehicles intended for training and the state of the infrastructure for practical exercise cars and motorcycles. Our interlocutor explains that the federal police services are aware of the problem and are trying to draw up a plan to find solutions to the extent of budgetary opportunities." Minister, do you share this finding? In the light of the report of Committee P, what solutions will be put in place to address the problems raised by Committee P?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u11	Mr Kir, first of all, I wish to refute your observation that the additional training in defensive driving announced in 2013 by my predecessor would not have come into being. It is crucial that police officers receive appropriate training in priority driving and defensive driving techniques. This major concern has indeed been taken into account both at the level of the National Police Academy (ANPA) and at the level of the various provincial police schools accredited. Basic skills in this field are taught in the framework of basic training. In addition to this, quality continuing training has been organised. This area is also included in the 2016-2017 Federal Training Plan. The purpose of this plan is to communicate to police schools the subjects and areas to be given special attention in the development of their training offer. Although I am also aware that the situation in practice is not perfect, I would like to point out that police schools together have ensured that as many police officers as possible can benefit from this type of training. With respect to ANPA, its main mission is to meet the training needs of the federal police. As such, it ensured that training in priority and defensive conduct was provided to the most affected members of the Federal Police: officers belonging to road police units and special units. But it is difficult for him to respond systematically to requests from other units of the federal police. The ANPA has not been content with this, since, in order to contribute alongside accredited police schools to meet the training needs of local police officers, it has developed and organized a train the trainer training entitled "Priority driving course" for instructors in provincial schools. The system, which was introduced in 2013, was to train police officers who, in turn, could pass on the skills acquired to their counterparts in local police areas. These training sessions were held until 2015. These lecturers were then able to pass on the skills acquired in this area to other personnel from the local police areas, mainly through several trainings organized, this time, by the various provincial accredited police schools. As I said, however, I am aware that this area of training must continue to receive particular attention. The infrastructure, material and human resources of ANPA enable it to meet the needs of the most affected federal police officers, but it is difficult to meet the demands of other units of the Federal Police. In order to improve this situation, and in particular the problem of the vehicles and infrastructure of the federal police for practical driving exercises, I can confirm that analyses are currently under way in technical and budgetary terms. In particular, several improvements at the roadway site in Berg are envisaged so that a wider training offer, under improved conditions, can be offered as soon as possible. To date, however, it is still premature to provide further clarification and guarantees. More broadly, I advocate that schools, including ANPA, should better agree on a distribution of their areas of action and create even greater synergy between them. Thus, we can move towards better rationalization and pooling of resources and respond more effectively to training needs. This is certainly the case in this area where the infrastructure and means needs are very important. To this end, ANPA is in consultation with the various police schools via, for example, the Technical Committee "Circulation". This type of approach should not only be encouraged between police schools, but also between other security chain partners, such as firefighters and defence, who sometimes have similar training needs. Proposals for collaboration are also being considered.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u12	Mr President, Mr Minister, you have refuted the union's information that additional training on defensive driving - which was promised by your predecessor - has not yet come into being. So, a new offer was filed. Do you have any figures that you could give me in order to give me an idea of the training offers that were offered and the additional offer?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u13	Mr President, Minister, IS is an evil that must be combated. An evil that we are also fighting, in all respects. And that is not easy, because IS is also active in all areas. In Belgium we know the threat of terrorism, in Syria and Iraq we are faced with hotspots of conflict and massacres. On the net there are very well organised actions, including on social media and websites of individual fundamentalists as well as of groups supporting IS, for example Amaq. Amaq is supposedly an independent press agency that in fact is very close to the communication department of IS. It publishes messages on the website news-agency.be. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a matter of fact. The de facto communication department of IS apparently uses a Belgian domain name. According to an employee of the researcher collective Bellingcat, especially Raphael Gluck, Amaq uses a rotating system. Due to the continuous deletion of Amaq websites, governments need to constantly search for new domain names. Jihad expert Pieter Van Ostaeyen adds that it is not the first time that IS uses a Belgian domain name. However, DNS Belgium, the manager of Belgian domain names, is powerless. They cannot delete websites or domain names for reasons of substance. That is a competence reserved for the Federal Computer Crime Unit, a unit for which you, together with Minister of Justice None, are responsible. Given the global fight against terrorism and the fact that Prime Minister Michel stated in the government statement of 10 October that cybersecurity should be strengthened month after month, on which this issue is still an extension, I have further questions for you. Have you already ordered the FCCU to stop this domain name? My question was put a while ago. As far as that is not the case, when will you do so?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u14	Mr President, Mr Top, I will answer your question in a moment, but first this. In that domain there is a speech confusion, in the sense that computer crime and cybercrime are two different phenomena. Cybercrime means trying to hack and shut down other computers. The Prime Minister is responsible for the centre that deals with it. Computer crime means criminal activities happen over the Internet. However, it also happens that the Internet is used to spread hateful or recruiting messages. That's a lot of things. It is not the FCCU, but it is the DJSOC/IRU (Internet Referral Unit) service that is responsible for blocking or removing illegal content on domain names. This service was established in January 2016 at my request within the federal judicial police, with the task of tracking down publications on the Internet related to propaganda, terrorism, radicalism, violent extremism and crimes of online hate speech. The police services do not have direct powers to block a domain name autonomously. A domain name can only be blocked on the basis of a claim drawn up by a competent judicial authority. So there are checks-and-balances between the police and the Justice Department. The claim must be made on the basis of Article 39a of the Code of Criminal Procedure. I did not have to order the IRU to delete the domain name in question. She had already detected the site herself in the context of her assignments and prepared a report to the attention of the federal prosecutor. The DJSOC/IRU service received a legal claim and forwarded it for execution to DNS, the Domain Name System for Belgium, i.e. the Belgian administrator of the domain names, in order to have them deleted, which also happened effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u15	Thank you, Minister, for your clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u16	Mr President, Minister, in June last year Belgium – questioned before the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR) – took the decision to propose a criminal transaction in two cases of abuse of violence by law enforcement officials. An amazing but instructive decision since it ultimately amounts to a conviction in these cases. This attitude, of which it is understood that it has not been given much publicity, naturally raises questions about the situation on a daily basis, on the understanding that such cases, which may be submitted to the ECHR, are not the majority. According to a report by Committee P, published in May this year, 20 per cent of the complaints dealt with by this body relate to incidents of police violence. This figure is steadily increasing. It should be noted that the number of complaints does not necessarily reflect an increase in the facts but a better understanding of the remedies available to citizens who find themselves victims of ill-treatment by the police services. This report concludes, in particular, with a recommendation to raise awareness of the use of violence among the middle management of the police – which is all the more interesting given that they would be missing some 900 people! Minister, how many complaints have been filed against law enforcement officials for violence in the past three years? How many of them are subject to judicial treatment? How many of them have been disposed of and how many have been in favour or against the police officers involved? What measures are being taken within the police to respond to the recommendation of Committee P regarding the awareness of middle management? What measures are being taken to fill the management deficit? Is a structured risk analysis specific to police violence under way within the federal police force? If so, can you provide us with the content? If not, why is such an analysis not conducted?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u17	Mrs Ben Hamou, first of all, although my services have done everything possible to enable me to answer your questions, I should like to point out to you, however, that, for questions relating to figures and statistics, the channel of written questions is the most appropriate. Some data are from Committee P. I should not remind you that this permanent body for the external oversight of the police services is the responsibility of the Federal Parliament, for which it serves as an observatory of the functioning of the police services. With regard to your request for figures, it would not be understandable if I quoted them every year. I will therefore give you my answer on this subject. Then I collected information from Committee P. The number of complaints lodged in recent years with this body against the police for acts of violence – from January 2014 to August 2017 – amounted to 527 in 2014, 433 in 2015, 440 in 2016 and 180 for this year. Those subject to judicial treatment reached 226 in 2014, 200 in 2015 and 207 in 2016. I do not yet have the full figures for 2017. These are the cases which the P Committee has transmitted to the Public Prosecutor's Office and which are already known to the Public Prosecutor's Office, but for which the complainants have approached both the Public Prosecutor's Office and the P Committee, and for which the P Committee has invited the complainants to file a complaint with the Public Prosecutor's Office because it had in its possession a set of documents relating to the complaint. This concludes the first part relating to Committee P. I turn to the second part concerning the General Inspectorate (IGA). The IGA handled 98 complaints of assault in 2014; in 2015, 87, 2016, 83 and 2017, 54 to date. Some of these complaints are still pending. All these complaints are the subject of criminal proceedings: either criminal information, criminal investigation, or both. At the end of the investigation, and in the event of a classification without follow-up and/or for reasons of opportunity, the judicial authority may rely on the discipline of the body. The General Inspectorate cannot draw any relevant or exhaustive conclusions as to the measures taken against the police because it does not have the fullity of the decisions endorsed by the competent authorities. The third part concerns judicial follow-up. I do not have any figures on judicial follow-up, as these questions are to be asked to my colleague the Minister of Justice. In the case of middle managers, their awareness of this type of violence begins at the outset of training. The principal aspirant inspector follows a professional ethics module in which he identifies, applies and enforces police intervention and behaviour patterns in accordance with police ethics and citizens' expectations. The aim of this training is to integrate police activity within the general framework of the protection of citizens' rights and freedoms. In addition, the aspirant, during his training, learns to intervene proportionately and to control the most frequent danger situations that require the use of force or coercion, in accordance with ethical principles. As far as the issue of the management deficit is concerned, I can only refute this argument, as far as the federal police are concerned at least. Given the delay, I couldn't get the numbers for the local police. With respect to the federal police, as at 31 August 2017, 2,621 senior inspectors were in service. Of the 2,621 principal inspectors, 2,503 were regular staff and 118 were principal inspectors engaged in the fight against terrorism. However, the organic table provides for 2,571 senior inspector functions. At the federal police, therefore, there are 50 more senior inspectors than expected. This is the staffing and organizational table of the four federal police branches. In addition, for the 2017 training, 335 candidates were selected and allowed to begin the training of aspirant principal inspector. These are figures until October of this year. In 2018, 300 principal inspectors are expected to be hired. Finally, for the integrated police, there is no structured risk analysis as such regarding the use of violence by staff members. Given our police structure, local police forces depend on local authorities. Risk analyses are carried out at this level and the employer, the local authority, is responsible for them. With regard to the federal police, there is no comprehensive analysis. However, in the Directorate-General of Administrative Police (DGA), the findings that are made within or outside the Federal Police regarding the legality, timeliness and proportionality of police interventions are followed with particular attention. This topic, and especially the lessons to be learned, are taken up at the strategic meeting with the Directors of DGA units. In addition, the prevention advisers of the Internal Protection and Prevention Service of the Federal Police participate constructively in the creation of risk analysis to reduce violence. For example, they have already carried out an operational risk analysis and well-being "negotiated management of public space at events", a risk analysis to resolve a sit-in situation, a risk analysis to use ls-lethal weapons instead of firearms. Finally, there is a tool for recording acts of violence against and by the police, called MISI. This tool was recently integrated into the Integrated System for the Local Police (ISLP) application. It is not intended to play an awareness role for police officers, but in the medium term – we are talking about the first quarter of 2018 – it will be able to provide statistical data to put in place future preventive measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u18	Thank you, Minister. I asked for many figures, thank you for providing them to me. I would like to return to the "professional ethics" training. You say that the principal inspectors are entitled to this training at the Police Academy. Is this training also given to aspirants inspectors?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u19	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u20	She is, too. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u21	Mr President, Mr Minister, by the Act of 4 April 2014 amending section 41 of the Act of 5 August 1992 on the police function, the Parliament wished to strengthen the capacity of citizens to identify police officers, including during special interventions. This text delegates to the King the task of defining the practical aspects of an identification number that must be visible on the uniform or equipment of the police officers in the course of the operations in which they take part. Unfortunately, it seems that the required royal order has still not been made, three and a half years after the publication of the law. Minister, what is the status of this order? What causes this blockage? When do you intend to publish this order and enforce it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u22	Mr President, dear colleague, first of all I would like to point out that the amendment made by the Act of 4 April 2014 to section 41 of the Act on the Police Function came into force only on 9 May 2016, following a further revision of this section by the Act of 21 April 2016 on various provisions Interior - Integrated Police. The delay is therefore not due to a blockage, but rather to a concern to apply this article more adequately. As you mentioned, the amendment is intended to reconcile the need to be able to identify operational framework staff with the protection of operational framework staff against potential reprisals. For this purpose, the nameplate of a staff member may, for certain interventions, be replaced by an intervention number. In 2014, it was planned that this intervention number would consist of a code designating the police service in which the staff member works, followed by a maximum of four digits. This meant that the intervention number would be changed with each change in service of the staff member. As a result, section 41 of the Police Function Act was further amended by the Act of 21 April 2016 to provide for a single intervention number that the staff member of the operational framework maintains throughout his or her career in the integrated police force. This intervention number, which is derived from the identification number of the staff member concerned, makes it possible to identify the staff member concerned in all circumstances. Models of the nameplate and intervention armband on which the intervention number will be applied have been developed by the federal police. They were then incorporated into a draft royal decree which is currently subject to the various formalities prescribed in the framework of the adoption of a regulation. We can therefore expect a publication of this royal decree in early 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u23	Better late than never, Minister! Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u24	Minister, on August 5, 2014, the Doel 4 reactor was shut down as a result of an act of sabotage. Three years after the facts, he said today that the investigation had been closed without having been able to identify the authors. Do you confirm this information? If so, how can I explain it? What's the status of the investigation? Greenpeace indicates that it is possible that the authors are still circulating in the nuclear power plant. Do you confirm this information? If so, how do you live as Minister of the Interior with this risk to our nuclear security?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u25	Minister, on 5 August 2014, while several French and Belgian nuclear power plants were frequently flown by remotely controlled aircraft or unidentified drones, unknown persons managed to commit an act of sabotage in the Doel 4 turbine room. The damage was so great that the reactor had to be closed for more than four months. The cost of repairs amounted to over €135 million. Greenpeace announces that the judicial investigation was closed without having been able to identify the perpetrators. Is that correct information? Do you confirm that the only certainty that is available is that the culprits belong to Engie Electrabel's staff, that they had to be several and that this was not an impulsive act of a frustrated employee, that sabotage was planned and well prepared? Did you have access to the survey results? Given the failure of this investigation, should security measures be considered in addition to those put in place in the months following the potentially terrorist sabotage?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u26	Colleagues, with respect to the inquiry questions, I am replying that the PSAN has not received any information indicating that the investigation was closed. For the rest, I'm sending you back to the Minister of Justice. To prevent this type of incident from happening again, AFCN immediately imposed a series of complementary security measures on all nuclear power plants in Belgium. These measures include the placement of additional cameras, changes in the badge access system and the broadening of the scope of the "four eyes" principle, a principle that nuclear power plant workers can access certain areas only if they are accompanied by one or more colleagues. These are some concrete examples of measures that are part of the overall security regime that cannot be detailed because of confidentiality.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u27	Minister, thank you for your answers. You confirm that, unlike the noises that were running, the investigation is not over.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u28	The AFCN did not have any information that the investigation was closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u29	Minister, you answer subtly but legitimately. I suppose that applies to you too: the AFCN has not received any information, neither have you as a minister. Wasn't the AFCN involved in the trial?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u30	I think she was a civil party.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u31	So, if it was over, she'd have been informed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u32	To date, the AFCN has received nothing, but transmission sometimes takes time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u33	Of course. We will see each other once we see more clearly on the subject. The measures you outlined at previous meetings may need to be strengthened at this time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u34	Mr. Minister, Greenpeace has provided you, as well as the Federal Nuclear Control Agency (FCCA) and the Crisis Centre, with a report on the resistance of nuclear facilities to external attacks, such as the fall of an aircraft or a heavy weapon attack. The unanimous conclusion of the requested international experts is that the storage tanks for used fuel rods, located outside the armoured buildings, are extremely vulnerable. In the same vein, Mr Antoine Debauche, a safety expert and professor at UCL, argued during his hearing in parliament on 13 April 2016 that "the risk of a plane falling, whether voluntary or not, has increased in recent times and some buildings adjacent to nuclear power sites are not planned to resist them (Tihange, Doel I and II swimming pools)". Can you give the members of the nuclear safety subcommittee the Greenpeace report? Following the mention of this report in the press, Engie-Electrabel immediately communicated in this direction: after Fukushima, the ad hoc analyses were carried out; there is really nothing to worry about. What additional protection measures have been imposed following the Paris and Brussels attacks? Do you confirm that our nuclear facilities can withstand external attacks such as a plane fall or a heavy weapon attack?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u35	Mr Minister, Greenpeace - an organization you know very well - has just given you a very precise and well-documented dossier on the nuclear safety flaws in Belgium. This report, drawn up by seven independent international experts, reveals the extreme fragility of our plants in the face of malicious acts and, even more so, that of nuclear fuel storage pools, which are clearly badly protected. Greenpeace rightly insists on changing the nature of the threat since the attacks of 11 September 2001, when nuclear facilities were designed in a context where the risk of attack was not in common with the means of aggression now available to organized groups. We know that this is a sensitive subject and that you do not like to express yourself on this subject. Greenpeace, on the contrary, calls for public debate on the safety of our nuclear facilities. Minister, how do you assess the resilience of our reactors to terrorist risk? More specifically, what analysis do you give of the situation of our storage pools, whose capacity is sometimes greater than that of a reactor core, but which have much less containment? Can I ask you to specify what containment benefits each of the storage pools at our power plants? Is it the same or have the most recent ones been more sanctified? Should we not consider new, intrinsically more robust storage capabilities? What strengthening measures will you require following receipt of this important report? What civil engineering measures are you considering? What other initiatives do you intend to take, and by what date?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u36	Mr. Minister, the Director General of the Crisis Centre, the Director General of AFCN and you have recently received a report on "the safety of nuclear reactors and fuel storage pools in France and Belgium and associated reinforcement measures", commissioned by Greenpeace from a panel of seven international experts. In this report, according to the media and the summary that I have at my disposal, it appears that the outer storage structure of used nuclear fuel - mainly swimming pools - would be particularly vulnerable to attacks that could cause significant damage, being protected only by beams and metal cladding on the roof of buildings. The few information we have on this confidential report concerns all nuclear power plants in Belgium and France. So, for the time being, we are not in a position to know what are the most problematic elements for Belgian power plants. If I understand that nuclear safety issues impose a certain degree of confidentiality, it is our responsibility to ensure that every effort is made to ensure the maximum safety of our plants, including if they are facing a major attack. We talked about a plane crash. Minister, I would like some clarification. Can you make Greenpeace's report available to Parliament, which could, if necessary, be consulted under the seal of secrecy? If not, why? What are, at the very least, the main recommendations of this report? In addition to the Greenpeace study, have other risk analyses of the same type already been carried out in relation to the safety of our used fuel storage infrastructure? If so, what were the conclusions? How do they differ, if any, from Greenpeace's analysis? Will any initiatives be taken to enhance the safety of our nuclear reactors as well as used fuel storage infrastructure? If so, which ones? In what time frame? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u37	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before answering your various questions, I have no problem speaking on the issue of nuclear safety. Of course, AFCN considers transparency and communication to be essential values in today's society, even when it comes to nuclear power. The Agency therefore strives to communicate as much as possible, to the extent possible. Indeed, I hope you understand that not all information can be made public. In this case, there is a duty of confidentiality in relation to the safety of nuclear installations. The transparency of management cannot compromise the essential mission of the PSAN, which is to protect the public. I would also like to point out that the AFCN did indeed receive the Greenpeace report on Tuesday, 17 October. The AFCN experts are currently analysing it. Based on this analysis, the AFCN will draw the appropriate conclusions. Having said that, I will now answer your various questions. I think we have already discussed this issue several times in this committee. As part of its mission to protect the population, the AFCN obviously takes into account the terrorist threat in its safety and security analyses of Belgian nuclear power plants. There are two specific aspects related to this issue. At the plant security level, AFCN ensures that all technical and organizational arrangements are made to prevent and detect theft, sabotage, access by unauthorized persons, and diversion and any malicious acts, such as terrorist acts. In addition to these measures, the AFCN also ensures that nuclear facilities are as resistant as possible to external accidents. It is therefore a question of nuclear safety. As far as aircraft falls are concerned, the problem is both a matter of nuclear safety and safety. For the protection against accidents of external origin in connection with human activities, Belgian practice for years has been to take into account an accidental plane fall. This point is one of the foundations of the design of our power plants. In addition, it is reassessed during periodic reviews. After the attacks of 11 September 2001, an intentional drop in aircraft also became a concern in the United States and around the world, including Belgium. The AFCN has contacted the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) to address these concerns and to take action to prevent and manage their consequences. A new re-evaluation was carried out in 2011 and 2012 as part of the stress testing programme conducted following the Fukushima incident. The information considered to be publicly available has been published in the report of the resistance tests, of which you have certainly received a copy. The European resistance tests focused on the risks of earthquakes and floods. AFCN has extended them to include human-caused accidents and, in particular, aircraft crashes. On the basis of their results, additional measures have been taken at the sites of the Belgian nuclear power plants to increase the resilience to such events and the ability to mitigate their consequences, including with regard to aircraft falls. The various reassessments highlighted the fact that spent fuel storage pools are unlikely to fall due to the thickness of concrete walls and their location at a height very close to the ground. In addition, although the quantity of radioactive elements in the pools is higher than in the core of a reactor, one of the main problems remains the evacuation of residual heat. This is much lower in spent fuels than in the core of a functioning power plant. Managing a problem in these facilities is therefore easier than in the reactor even when the time before fuel damage is significantly shorter and there are problems related to temperature and pressure for pressurised water reactors. The design of swimming pool buildings is different depending on their seniority. The resistance to the fall of an airliner was examined for all installations during the resistance tests: for the oldest units (Doel 1 and 2 and Tihange 1) and for the most recent installations, including the DE building in Tihange, bunkerized from the start against the possible fall of a airliner. Resistance to aircraft fall was examined for all facilities during stress tests. New fuel storage facilities are planned in the medium term, not because of this problem, but because the current storage capacity needs to be increased. It is clear that for these facilities, the most recent standards will be used, particularly for the consideration of aircraft falls. As I have already said, the AFCN received a copy of this report on Tuesday, October 17. The Agency's experts are analysing the entire report. Based on this analysis, the AFCN will draw the appropriate conclusions. You cannot escape the fact that the French authorities are responsible for monitoring the safety and security of French nuclear power plants. They shall ensure that French operators take the necessary steps to ensure the safety and security of their nuclear facilities at all times. I am convinced that the French authorities will respond appropriately to this report, if necessary. I now turn to the additional protective measures following the attacks in Paris and Brussels. As a result of these attacks, a series of additional security measures were taken at nuclear sites. Unfortunately, I cannot give you any details about them, in order to guarantee their effectiveness. However, I can tell you that the Belgian government had already decided, at the end of 2015, to create a specialised surveillance and protection body within the federal police force. This new Directorate will be responsible in particular for the safety of nuclear installations in Belgium. Pending the effective creation of this specialized police force, which you voted for last week, for which I would like to express my eternal thanks, military personnel are deployed on Belgian nuclear sites. The latter have an armed response capability at the sites.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u38	Minister, I did not say that you did not like to answer questions on nuclear safety. A floppy of these questions are asked each week. Thankfully, therefore, that these do not pose a problem to you. That being said, you have responded globally, but not precisely to what is in the report. You have told us about the measures actually taken, but not the elements.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u39	I said we were analyzing them. We received them on October 17. It's October 25th. You can come back.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u40	I agree.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u41	Minister, I am pleased that the analysis takes some time because it is a very important issue. But if you are reassuring about stress tests and plane crashes, you know our differences on this point. Unlike my colleague, I believe that one element at least lacks transparency: the type of aircraft to which power plants, reactor cores and swimming pools are able to resist. I assert that the tests performed and the calculations repeated in 2011 concern Boeing 767 but not the largest carriers that frequent Bierset. The problem is recognised in the document to which you refer although it lacks precision: it simply says that there is a risk of penetration in the three oldest power plants. It's written as it is in the document, so you can't lie about it. Of course and fortunately, the risk is unlikely. However, it does exist. The aim will therefore be to strengthen measures, particularly for the oldest installations. As far as I'm concerned, I think that information about the type of aircraft is a secret that is inappropriate because this secret protects appearances more than the installations themselves. As for your comments on the situation in France, of course this is the responsibility of the French authorities. But you know as well as I do that if an accident occurs at the Chooz power station, Belgium will also be affected. That is why my colleague Gilkinet and I ask you to remain attentive to the situation in Chooz and Gravelines. We'll come back to the rest later.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u42	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. The fact that the AFCN is carefully considering the report is very important to us. We'll give him time to do it. I think it is a good policy to move forward in this way. I'm quite with you about that. I also expect, in a month or a month and a half, when things are a little off the table and the analysis has been done by the AFCN, that we can talk about it again with you in the Committee on the Interior or that we can talk about the report in a nuclear safety committee, perhaps even in camera if it is necessary. I think Parliament has the right to information. The AFCN must be able to report on the conclusions it draws from this report. I would like to thank you for the clarification you have given regarding the strengthening of structures, especially swimming pools at the sites, and if I understood correctly, and the future expansion of these in terms of the quantities needed to cool down, I will say, for the fuel. It's a subject you know we're concerned about. We remain very attentive to it. We will return to the topic within a reasonable time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u43	Mr. Minister, there is no reason that only Messrs. Nollet and Lamotte or even Mr. Thiébaut ask you about the safety of the power plants. There is no more reason for us to limit ourselves to Belgian power plants. In this case, as Mr Nollet pointed out, the safety of the Chooz plant concerns Belgium as much, if not more, than the French State. You know that I ask you regularly about this. The heart of my inquiry is the report of the French Institute of Radiation Protection and Nuclear Safety (IRSN), dated September 8th and addressed by mail to the President of the French Nuclear Safety Authority (ASN). The aim of the project was to take account of the return of experiments and the failure in the management of fire-sectorization. In particular, it dealt with the deviations detected at three French nuclear sites: Bugey, Cattenom and, above all, Chooz-B. I must not remind you that this latter plant is literally enclaved in Belgian territory, on the Meuse river, near the communes of the province of Namur. In its letter, the IRSN explained that it had identified three significant safety events, related to failures in the management of fire-sectorization and which merited initiatives by EDF. The problems identified at the Chooz power plant are the most worrying. Variances were identified in the implementation of compensatory measures for hopper opening activities to pull cables. The mail details: "In total, the operator considered that the compensatory means would have been ineffective for 122 hoppers. In addition, he stated that he had exceeded the compliance deadline of 27 hoppers. However, the operator's examination of the consequences of these deviations indicates a fire spread that would have been limited to the volume of safety lights in the same electric track. Nevertheless, many of the hoppers were in the electric building and could have affected the equipment required by the operating technical specifications." EDF's own analysis of these incidents is rather overwhelming. Thus, there is "a lack of awareness of the requirements of fire-sectorization, of the means to be used as compensatory measures and of the criteria for deciding on the severity of the sectorisation anomalies, of the inadequacies in the technical inspection of the operators and in the monitoring of EDF". The company also points to "organizational failures, particularly on the part of driving teams, such as the absence of regular checks". You will agree with me that these are strong terms and disturbing facts. "The IRSN notes that these three incidents have several common causes related to organizational and human failures. From the analysis of these incidents, it is clear that sector management is not at the expected level due to a lack of awareness among service providers, but also within EDF teams. In addition, no robust organisation seems to have been set up on nuclear power plants, while a prescriptive repository exists." The Institute's conclusions are staggering for EDF since it considers that the provisions implemented by EDF are not in line with the extent and recurrence of the malfunctions found and the potential consequences of them. This is a very worrying report when one imagines the potential consequences of a fire on a nuclear site, particularly as far as our country is concerned, if it takes place at the Chooz power station, as we delegate to the French authorities these monitoring missions without the ability to control or directly intervene by the Belgian authorities, while our country will be the first to suffer the impact in the event of a failure. I do not have the opportunity to directly challenge the NSA, as we can do with our supervisory authority. Mr Minister, have the French authorities alerted you to any deficiencies in the management of fire screening in Chooz-B? Have you read this mail through an official channel? What follow-up do you intend to give to this mail? Have additional information been requested or will it be requested by Belgium? Directly, or via your French counterpart, will Belgium call on EDF to resolve this organisational failure as soon as possible? In general, what monitoring is carried out by the Belgian State on safety reports on French nuclear sites close to our territory? There is Chooz, but also Gravelines, obviously, even Cattenom. Is it not appropriate, in view of the increasing number of worrying signs of the degree of safety of these nuclear installations, particularly that of Chooz, to review the arrangements for cooperation between France and Belgium in this respect with a view to a greater and more direct capacity of the Belgian authorities to be informed of the situation in these plants and to require adequate and effective security measures?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u44	Mr Gilkinet, AFCN has not been notified by the French Security Authority (ASN), nor has it read this letter. However, the AFCN holds periodic bilateral meetings with the ASN. During these meetings, information on the state of the plants in each border area, including the Chooz power station, is regularly exchanged. Through this channel, AFCN can request additional information about the Chooz power plant and the IRSN report. But you probably do not escape the fact that the control of the safety of nuclear power plants falls within the competence of the French NSA, which ensures that French operators take the necessary steps to guarantee, at all times, the safety of their nuclear installations. I am convinced that the French authorities will respond appropriately to this case, if necessary. I also hope that you will understand that it is not possible for me to comment on technical issues that are taking place entirely outside our country. In our territory, know that the AFCN operates continuous radiological monitoring via TELERAD, the automatic network of continuous measurement of the rate of radioactivity. This network is active throughout Belgium, particularly in the vicinity of the Chooz power plant. Please also know that there is a convention on the exchange of information between the Belgian and French nuclear safety authorities. The Convention provides that in the event of an event and of a well-defined situation in relation to nuclear sites close to the Franco-Belgian border, it is the responsibility of the competent authority to notify its counterpart. This convention applies to all events placed at level 1 and above on the INES scale as well as certain specific events classified at level 0 or not classified.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u45	Minister, first of all, I note that the AFCN has not been notified. On the other hand, I would like to apologize for having been a little long, but it seemed to me that it was necessary. Indeed, this is a more than worrying report which points to dysfunctions. And, in my view, it is problematic that the NSA did not spontaneously inform AFCN. You say that meetings are held regularly, at which time Belgium can request information. But you didn't tell me if that had been the case or if that was going to be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u46	I probably wasn't precise enough. That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u47	Okay. Thank you for taking into account my inquiry. The PSAN will request accounts from the NSA. I know that the French authorities are responsible. That is the problem. As a representative of all Belgian citizens and paying particular attention to those of the province of Namur, I do not have the capacity to interrogate the French authorities. So I'm trying to do it through you. I am concerned about the proliferation of facts, whether minor or major, at the Chooz power station. You say that there is continuous radiological monitoring and that in case of a type 1 or more serious incident, we will be notified. Personally, I don't want to be warned when it's too late. Above all, I want Belgium, through you, to exert some form of pressure on the French authorities, to tell them our concern or to change these cooperation protocols. This plant literally has its feet in Belgium. If there is a problem in Chooz, it is for the apple of Belgian citizens, first the inhabitants of the province of Namur, but also the others! I cannot therefore content myself with your usual answer. That is why I am tabling a motion of recommendation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u48	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Georges Gilkinet and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Georges Gilkinet and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Security and Interior, responsible for the Régie des Bâtiments, asks the government - to communicate to the French Government our greatest concerns about the deterioration of safety at the Chooz power station; - to strengthen the control capacity of the Belgian State over nuclear power stations near our borders, in particular that of Chooz; - to ensure much greater transparency vis-à-vis the Belgian population and parliament with regard to the safety of these nuclear power stations located on French territory but in direct proximity to our territory." A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Georges Gilkinet and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Georges Gilkinet and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Security and Home Affairs, with responsibility for the Directorate of Buildings, calls on the Government - to inform the French Government of our deep concern at the deterioration of the security situation at the Chooz plant; - strengthen the control capacity of the Belgian authorities in relation to nuclear power stations in the border regions, in particular the Chooz plant; - to inform the Belgian people and Parliament much better about the safety of those nuclear power stations which are located on French territory just across the border.' A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Koenraad Degroote. A simple motion was tabled by Mr Conseil Degroote. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u49	Minister, the Japanese company Kobe Steel has just acknowledged that it has for years falsified the performance of products delivered to more than 200 customers. They admitted that their employees had provided false quality inspection reports for both automotive and nuclear products. Minister, has one of our nuclear power plants been a direct or indirect customer of Kobe Steel? What are the components that may be affected? Do you have every guarantee that falsification does not entail any risk to our plants and therefore to workers and residents? Is there a second scandal after the Creusot Forge case which is still far from having revealed its full scope and on which I had the opportunity to question you?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u50	Mr Nollet, at present, AFCN cannot yet confirm whether a Belgian nuclear power plant is a direct or indirect customer of Kobe Steel. AFCN asked Electrabel to determine whether components supplied by Kobe Steel or manufactured from metal supplied by Kobe Steel were installed in nuclear power plants and, if so, to determine the impact of any falsification on the acceptability of the component in service. In view of the various cases of fraud or falsification revealed in recent years in the nuclear industry, the AFCN will closely monitor the development of this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u51	Mr President, the number of falsifications and frauds in the nuclear industry is impressive! Luckily, we're starting to find out. I thank AFCN for following this closely because it is potentially problematic. Minister, I will ask you again after the budget work, and I hope we will see more clearly by then. I hope that we can be reassured and that there will be no scandal in addition to the Creusot Forge, which is already causing us a lot of trouble.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u52	Minister, in the future, police officers will be fully compensated for the costs of serious violence against them. So far, only part of the insurance was covered. This situation was not admissible and I congratulate you, Minister, on making this decision. I ask myself two questions about that. First of all, how is this going to happen in practice? Is there any control in place to prevent possible abuse? Then, to your knowledge, what is the extent of this problem? Similarly, it appears that this system will operate with retroactive effect. Do you have an estimate of the number of police officers who could benefit from it for past events? Thank you for your answers and the follow-up you will give to this file.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u53	Mr Minister, following Mr Flahaux's question, there is indeed a gap which seems to be classified as unconstitutional. The gap is that for the members of police and emergency services there is a difference in regime when they are victims of an act of violence within and outside their hours. Agents and aid workers who are injured or seriously injured during their hours will receive the compensation. This is not the case outside their hours, even if this act of violence is directly linked to the performance of their duties or the task which they may have carried out on the same day. Mr Vanessa Matz was right to address this problem and tried to remedy it by offering us a correct and correct solution through her legislative proposal. Now, as Minister for the Interior and Security, you are also making a commendable attempt through the Royal Decree that all costs incurred by policemen who are seriously injured by violent aggression are paid, under the motto that "it is impossible for a person to risk their body and members to be victimized for society a second time." That is a noble ambition of the Minister and of Mr Matz, which we can only support. Now I have a practical question about the KB. Does the measure taken in the Royal Decree include policemen and aid workers who, outside their hours, are victims of an act of violence linked to their profession?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u54	First, Mr Flahaux's questions. A new draft royal decree has been drafted to compensate police personnel who are victims of a serious act of violence beyond what is currently reimbursed on the basis of other legislation, e.g. on industrial accidents. In order to obtain this compensation, the victim or another person who has an interest will have to apply to the designated service for compensation for industrial accidents. This service forwards the request without delay to a commission composed of representatives of the integrated police and a doctor of the Federal Police Medical Service. The Commission will then decide whether all the requirements for specific compensation for the costs of a serious act of violence are met. In the event of a favourable decision, the Federal Police Medical Service will reimburse these costs. In order to prevent abuse and ensure a processing unit, all claims for compensation will be processed by the same commission. The draft Royal Decree provides for compensation for costs incurred after its entry into force regardless of when the act of serious violence took place. At present, it is difficult to estimate the number of integrated police personnel who will be able to apply for compensation for the costs of a serious act of violence that occurred to the staff member prior to the entry into force of the Royal Decree. Mr Top, you had a question about the scope. In fact, a draft of KB was recently drawn up which complements the existing rules. This draft introduces a number of special provisions for accidents at work of police officers following a serious act of violence. More specifically, it provides for a system of reimbursement of costs which are not reimbursed on the basis of the other legal or regulatory provisions. On the basis of Article 2 (3) of the Law of 3 July 1967 on the prevention or compensation of accidents at work, accidents on the road to and from work and occupational diseases in the public sector, an accident which has occurred to a police member outside the service of his staff, but which has been caused by a third party on account of his duties, shall also be regarded as an accident at work. In view of the above, the draft decision is therefore also applicable to police officers who, outside the scope of the service, are victims of a serious act of violence caused by a third party, because of their duties.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u55	As soon as the new royal decree is in force, we will have the opportunity to take stock. However, I would like to reiterate my congratulations for your clear commitment, which will reassure the members of the police force.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u56	Thank you, Minister, for explaining that these incidents are also reimbursed outside duty hours. That will be a relief for the people of the security services.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u57	Mr President, Minister, our modern identity cards, with their e-chips, allow us to sign documents online, open a bank account, order a telephone subscription, etc. Of course, many precautions are taken to avoid fraud. However, recently, the press told us that 5,782 minutes had been prepared for identity usurpation in our country in 2016, an increase over the last few years. For the first quarter of 2017, 1,316 minutes would have already been prepared. Minister, my question is twofold. First of all, do you confirm these figures? If so, can you detail them by telling us, with supporting figures, what action has been taken on these files? Then, can you explain to us the means that you have and that you are mobilizing to counter this growing phenomenon?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u58	Mr Flahaux, the General National Data Bank (BNG) is a police database where the facts are recorded on the basis of minutes resulting from the judicial and administrative police missions. The figures you have mentioned relate to the number of acts recorded by the police in relation to the usurpation of names, such as this offence is included in article 231 of the Criminal Code, also referred to as "carrying a false name". The table, which I will give you, shows the number of facts recorded by the police in relation to the usurpation of names with a breakdown between the facts achieved and the attempts, as recorded in the BNG on the basis of the minutes for the years 2012 to 2016 and the first quarter of 2017, at national level. These data are from the data bank closed as at 20 July 2017. Based on the figures, the number of recorded incidents increased from 4,500 to nearly 5,800. I have decided to strengthen prevention through various concrete actions towards the municipalities which are the source of the identity chain and which, therefore, occupy a key position in the detection of identity fraud. By ministerial circular of 27 May 2016, co-signed by my colleagues the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, a coordinated approach to the prevention of identity fraud at federal and local level has been developed and transmitted to municipalities, local police and Belgian consular posts abroad. This circular serves as a guide to the municipal SPOC (Single Point Of contact), i.e. the reference official for the fight against identity fraud designated in each municipality, in cases where he or she suspects fraud of a Belgian electronic identity card, a kid-ID, a Belgian residence permit for a foreigner, a passport, a travel document or a civil status document. Several concrete improvements allowing for better detection of false documents by municipal or consular officials are included. With regard to the awareness-raising of the municipalities, all the designated municipal SPOCs, whose role is described in the above-mentioned ministerial circular, were invited to the conference "Fraude à l'identité" held on 19 and 20 September 2016 at the Palais d'Egmont in Brussels, during which the circular was explained and evaluated. With some 700 participants spread over two days, the organization of this information session was a real success. By circular of 30 September 2016, the municipalities were also invited to participate in provincial training courses on combating identity fraud. These interactive and small group training sessions were held from September 2016 to March 2017. Various practical cases of frequent identity fraud were examined in detail. This training programme brought together more than 700 local SPOCs. My services will also continue to develop and promote the document validity control system (the doc check system) with a view to increasing its use by public authorities and the private sector. The aim is to prevent identity fraud in all transactions in which an identity document is used by the parties to establish identity and, therefore, to protect the citizen. My services will ensure that certain objectives of the Comprehensive Security Note and the National Security Plan 2016-2019 are pursued and achieved. On the subject of identity determination and identity usurpation, thirteen measures are described. Various objectives will be pursued, including the continuous improvement of the physical security of identity and travel documents. It also includes improving the procedures for issuing, raising awareness among different target audiences and improving the flow of operational information between the actors involved in the fight against identity fraud. By analogy with passports, the integration of fingerprints into the electronic identity card chip will be progressively implemented from 2019, whenever a new card is issued. This will allow better control in the fight against identity fraud (including look-alikes), intellectual fraud and card falsification. The facial recognition project will be expanded. The process of comparison and recording of photos will be reviewed by allowing the comparison of the holder's photo recorded in the National Register with the photo transmitted for a new card and a photo of the citizen made at the municipal counter, to combat look-alike and intellectual fraud. Photos received by the municipality will be digitized and can also be compared with previous photos. There will also be an analysis of the possibilities of developing a life enrollment process, with the FPS Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u59	Minister, thank you for your extremely comprehensive answer. This shows you're taking the problem with your arm-to-body. It is interesting to note that the figures provided do indicate a significant increase between 2012 and 2015, followed by stabilization. The measures you are announcing should further reduce the phenomenon. The use of a false identity is rarely done for laudable purposes. It is often because we have bad intentions: a robbery, a terrorist act or something. I am fully satisfied with your answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u60	Mr President, Minister, since April more stringent controls have been introduced at airports. All passengers flying to and from countries outside the European Union will be subject to more thorough and thorough checks in order to prevent Syrian fighters with an EU nationality from entering Europe. Every day air police officers screen 25 000 passengers, of whom an average of 185 are taken separately for further investigation, search, interrogation and even arrest in certain cases. We do not know what the facts are based on, but it may be from persons who still did not pass on their change of address to wanted criminals. Of course, this will lead to a delay because cops need more time and queues are getting longer. Airlines are complaining about this, too. Safety is very important, as well as the smooth operation of airports and airlines stationed there. Hence my next questions. First of all, how many men are available to do these checks? Secondly, how many men are carrying out these controls effectively? Thirdly, are there structural deficits? Fourthly, how much longer are the waiting times? Are there any figures on that? Can waiting times be compared to previous ones? Fifthly, has there been any consultation with the airlines and the airport with a view to finding other solutions?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u61	Mr President, one of the basic principles is to hold one meeting in the sitting. This improves efficiency. Anyway, you're the boss of work. Mr Top, on 7 April 2017, at European Union level, the regulation amending Regulation 2016/399 on the strengthening of controls on the basis of relevant databases at the external borders came into force. For the sake of clarity, this applies not only to airports, but also to other external borders such as rail and maritime ports. In order to cope with the additional workload of Article 8.2 of the Schengen Borders Code, I have provided 70 additional border controls for all border posts. The recruitments are ongoing. A total of 476 border guards are available specifically for airports to carry out the enhanced controls. There are no structural deficits anymore, since following the attack in 2016 the implementation of 183 personnel was foreseen for the aviation police through the IDP. These personnel were all recruited and are primarily used for security assignments at airports. However, they can also be used for border controls. The revision of the Schengen Borders Code has significant implications for current infrastructure, logistics and capacity. There are 54 additional staff specifically for the aviation police who will join the aviation police in the near future. The selections are currently ongoing, but are expected to be in the units only in early 2018. It must be borne in mind that, in addition to pure border control, there are also staff who are responsible for the second line. Passengers who are left on board or do not have the right documents shall be dealt with by these persons. They are part of the number of border controls. This implies that when there are many passengers in second line, fewer boxes can be opened. I come to your fourth question. The implementation of Article 8.2 of the Schengen Borders Code, which imposes systematic controls on all EU citizens travelling extra-Schengen, has indeed established longer queues in all Schengen countries. This has an impact on the workload at the border in July and August. Indeed, at that time the workload is increasing significantly compared to the other months because the non-Schengen traffic is increasing more strongly in the summer than the Schengen traffic. For Zaventem, for example, in July compared to June +23 % for non-Schengen and +6 % for Schengen. It should also be taken into account that the workload in July is higher at the level of departure than at the level of arrival due to mainly many departing passengers. In August this is reversed. I'll give you some observations for the summer months for Zaventem. The highest peak is 40 minutes. Withdrawal periods and peak times of the control boxes and the e-gates are quite similar. Grosso mode for half of the number of days in the month there is a peak moment where the waiting time for both the control boxes and the e-gates is longer than 20 minutes. An estimate of the global waiting time varies between 15 and 20 minutes, even in peak hours, except during a few days when there have been some technical problems in the federal police system. A waiting period of 15 to 20 minutes is not excessive for the checks to be carried out. Peak moments depend mainly on the number of passengers leaving in a short period of time. For example, there is a peak with the departing passengers in the morning because then many aircraft leave at the same time. In short, this summer's peak increase has reached a maximum of 40 minutes. Furthermore, there is continuous operational consultation between the airport operator, not the airlines, and the aviation police. Other problems are discussed with the airlines. For example, Zaventem was tuned during the summer months which peak days there would be, the so-called red days, and for this purpose a maximum occupancy of the control boxes was provided. Further consultations are under way to provide, inter alia, infrastructure solutions, e.g. an increase in the number of border control boxes. I have to add that the problem in Charleroi is relatively much greater, because the infrastructure there is not at all sufficient. There are also calls from the airport operator to see how this infrastructure can be met.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u62	Mr Minister, as the figures in your answer show, the stricter controls are slowing down. However, it is good that additional people will be recruited, who will join the services by 2018. I urge continuous consultation, as you yourself said, to find more structural solutions in order to minimise waiting times. I expect the consultation with the airport operators of Zaventem and Charleroi, where the scary housing is indeed a problem, to produce good results.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u63	Mr.President, Minister, since 2015, terrorist acts have hit various targets blindly, affecting everyone in their daily lives, regardless of their social origins or philosophical options. Yet, the memory of the attacks committed in France by Merah or at the Jewish Museum in Belgium reminds us with pain that our Jewish fellow citizens remain targets of choice for terrorists, in a context where anti-Semitism seems to reappear from the past with rare violence. In this context, I am reminded that the general security arrangements around places such as Jewish crèches or denominational schools would have been modified. For some of them, fixed surveillance would have been replaced by mobile patrols in a wider perimeter. Some parents are concerned about this situation. Minister, is this correct? If so, can you tell us why this reduction in the level of protection? What is the level of deployment around educational places frequented by young Belgians of Jewish faith?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u64	Mr President, Mr Thiébaut, in the context of the level 3 threat established by the OCAM for Belgium, public places are considered soft targets and are potential targets taken seriously by the authorities. To date, there has been an exercise to optimize the arrangements for the places mentioned in the question. Security arrangements have been adapted to improve security and defence capability in the face of the unpredictability of the terrorist threat. In addition, these new dynamic patrols have maximum synergy with the efforts of the local and federal police to improve responsiveness. It is important to stress that this system ensures the highest possible level of safety. During dynamic patrols - oriented towards schools, crèches, synagogues and other Jewish institutions - the focus will be on the key moments when these places open or when groups of people leave the buildings. Ongoing consultations were held with representatives of the Jewish community to inform them of these changes and to further adapt the measures to their own needs. A final meeting was held on Monday, 16 October. In short, the National Security Council decided to move a protection that I would call static towards something more dynamic. I understand that this seems paradoxical to you. We need fewer troops, but the effectiveness and level of security are increasing due to the unpredictable nature of the patrol crossing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u65	Minister, you can still understand that parents feel that the places they frequent are less secure. In fact, in the past, police forces were present on a permanent basis, whereas now only patrolling is carried out.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u66	That is why we communicate a great deal with the Jewish community. Even yesterday, I participated in a Radio Judaica program to address this issue and to explain.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u67	All right, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u68	Minister, a transparent government is one of the essential elements in gaining, gaining and maintaining the trust of citizens as a government and as a state institution. The police are also such a state institution. The slogan "Police," your friend "Police" is a commonly used pronunciation. The police are responsible for maintaining public order in our country and are often at the service of the citizen. The police go along with his time and have been using the website policeonweb.be for quite some time. This is a website where one can get information, but where one can also file a complaint online, register his or her alarm system or request police supervision. Just there the shoe wrings, because that latter function does not work properly. I often hear complaints from people who want to use Police-on-web, but who always get an error message. That was already communicated to the police services, who then stated after a few months that they were going to look at it. That problem does not exist for a few days, weeks or months, but apparently it has been for years. The first complaints came in three years ago and apparently they are still being looked at, but very little or nothing was done about that problem. I carry, I suppose, like you, a proper functioning of the police high priority. The e-government aspect is also part of this. Mr President, to what do we owe these problems? How come after three years the problem is still not fully resolved? Will you, as Minister responsible for police services or ICT services, urge them to resolve this problem as quickly as possible? Can you give a timing from when the citizen can again make full, correct and easy use of Police-on-web?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u69	Mr Top, over the years three main causes of problems have been identified. First, there is the unavailability of the Police-on-web service. No citizen can use the system. The problem may be at the level of the police, Fedict or the Home Office. Thanks to good cooperation between these services and new procedures which have been put in place over the years, such inability is fortunately now kept to a minimum. Secondly, one of the reasons for malfunctioning is unknown to the street. The citizen specifies an address during his encoding. That address will determine which police area the form will be sent to. The police work with street lists, which are updated every two or three months. In the case of new streets or a renaming of streets, it is possible that citizens cannot complain via Police-on-web. The problem will then be solved at the next update of the street lists. The third problem is a long name with characters. In that case, the citizen cannot make a statement. For the first and second problems mentioned in the previous answer, solutions have been found, as has been said. In the meantime, the cause of the third problem has also been identified. However, it requires a complex and costly procedure to resolve this in the outdated technological version. Meanwhile, we are working on and investing in a new version of Police-on-web, in which all the mentioned problems will be solved. That renewal of Police-on-web will be carried out during the first semester of 2018. From then on, citizens will also be able to use Police-on-web in a simple and uniform manner via all local police websites. At some point one continues to brittle a system and one has to decide to stop and build something new. We are now at that stage. The first semester of 2018 will be the new Police-on-web up and running.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u70	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I'm glad to hear you're putting timing first. I'll keep you at your word. I am therefore, along with a number of citizens who cannot use the system right now, in a happy expectation that the new version will be there in the second semester of 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u71	Mr President, Minister, this question is in line with my previous question. It is about more thorough monitoring of those on average 185 people per day, with longer waiting times resulting. It came to my attention that sometimes there is a risk of arbitrariness in performing security checks. For example, it has happened several times that people had to show their ID card when checking in neither at the security check nor when boarding. On the return flight it was a very different story, then they had to show their ID card both at check-in and at security check-out and when boarding, in the other country of course. Since the end of last year, the security services have been using behavioral detection methods. Maybe this has something to do with it. You understand, however, that all this is not entirely clear. That's why I have the following questions for you. Does what I mentioned fit within the procedure of this new method? How is it that, on departure from Belgium, several checks can sometimes be passed at the airport without effective control, but will be thoroughly checked upon return? Is control on return rather than on departure the procedure or is there some arbitrariness here? Do you see any risks to our security, both locally for the airport and nationally for the State interest?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u72	Mr President, Mr Top, the control behavioral detection carried out by the aviation police staff at the entrance to the airport building is completely separate from any identity checks at check-in, security check-out and boarding. The latter checks shall be carried out by the personnel of the air carrier or by the personnel of the security firm.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The finality of the behavior detection control is the detection of any suspicious persons based on their behavior or their answers to asked questions. A third form of control concerns border control. This border control is only provided for passengers leaving or entering the Schengen area. This check is carried out by the aviation police. Furthermore, since the revision of Article 8.2 of the Schengen Convention, this control has been strengthened for EU nationals, but we have already discussed this. The figure of 185 intercepted persons is linked to this intertwined border control. As for your second question, the situation varies from one country to another. Until a few years ago, the identity card of passengers was also requested from us when checking in or boarding by the airline's staff or compared to the identity on the boarding pass. This has apparently not been implemented in our country for a few years, or at least not by the vast majority of airlines. It is even a bit contradictory that the low-cost companies do and the premium brand companies do not. In other countries this is still the rule. However, in the framework of the PNR Law, I did impose on companies the need to re-compare identity on the boarding pass with the identity card from 2018 onwards, in order to avoid being able to travel under a different name. As far as your third question is concerned, the check on return, as you mentioned, is carried out abroad and is therefore covered by the directives of the country concerned. Finally, the lack of identity checks in some procedures, check-in or boarding, can sometimes indeed cause a problem. That's why I made the decision to compare the identity with the boarding pass from next year on. I must say that in my mailbox I receive many more emails from people who say they took the plane and that no one has asked for their identity card anywhere than from people who say there was a little too much control. So people are asking questions about that. That is why we have responded to that. From 2018 onwards, we will re-introduce it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u73	Mr President, Minister, thank you for the answer. That was also the reason for my question. Concerned citizens are wondering the same thing, namely that it is strange that there is less checks in Belgium on departure than on return, that there is a different method of working. I am pleased to hear that from 2018 the inspection of the identity card will also be imposed on boarding. The only question then is whether there is no possibility of imposing that obligation of identity check when boarding even earlier than from 2018?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u74	These are rather difficult negotiations with the airlines. The low-cost companies do it, but the others apparently have to adapt their computer systems and so on. Those are the things that we have been able to agree with them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u75	Mr. Chairman, Minister, recently, the alarm bell was fired by some police officers to denounce a lack of uniforms. More specifically, it is some new hires who find themselves undressed. This problem has been going on for several months, forcing some agents to buy their own pants, shirts or ties. On the other hand, it seems that for some time the problem has also extended to police officers already on duty. Some areas would lack more and more equipment. Mr. Minister, you have recently assured us that the situation will be restored in the coming weeks and that, for the parts that would remain missing, the police had found alternatives. What happened in practice? What is the extent of the situation? In what time frame and by what means will the situation return to normal? What are the alternatives found by the police for the parts that would remain missing?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u76	Mr Flahaux, several factors explain the lack of security stocks: the delay of some suppliers, the complexity of the administrative procedure for the release of certain budget appropriations, etc. For several pieces of equipment, the security stock is currently too low. Any delay in the award of a new contract, in the delivery of a supplier or in the allocation of a budget creates a stock shortage. In this case, the situation is mainly due to delays in the award of a few new contracts and in the delivery of several suppliers. I got to know the thing. These include jackets, head coverings, sweaters, polos, belts and ties. Pants and shirts are not involved. Aspirants and operational members received these pieces. With regard to the Fleece sweaters an agreement was reached with the supplier to reduce the delivery time for 1,000 units. This makes it possible to equip the aspirants. In general, the situation will be regularised within a few weeks and, at the latest, in the first quarter of 2018, depending on the equipment part concerned. The new contracts have just been awarded and the first deliveries are expected at the end of January. We're talking about ties, belts and Fleece sweaters. An urgent order was placed for belts and ties in order to specifically equip the aspirants. The situation is being regularized for jackets. For the other parts, we contacted the suppliers to ensure that they complied with their commitments. The federal police do their best to provide an equivalent piece to the extent possible (e.g. a shirt instead of a polo). Finally, the supplier of a missing part agreed to reduce its statutory delivery time by paying additional costs.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u77	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. So our policemen won't have to paraphrase Rika Zaraï's famous song "No shirt, no pants". I'm reassured! More seriously, it is true that the problem of the mass of clothing arises at different levels. On the one hand, in the police areas themselves, some authorities – which was not the case in my area – sometimes tend to restrict the police's access to their clothing. On the other hand, it is true that in the past, supplies were made locally, markets were made specific to the local police or even to the police zone. Now, for ease and better prices, we go through federal markets, so through you. I am reassured if you are aware of the problem and if decisions have already been made. This reminds me of the famous Walloon communes – I will not mention them – where there were no more tires to change those of the "combis" vehicles. I would point out that it was not up to you. It seems to me that being properly clothed is just as important as the question of compensation in case of aggression, which was the subject of a question earlier.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u78	Mr President, as you can see, I am addressing every aspect. Minister, the police in the local police areas and the federal police are, it seems, increasingly absent. In 2016, the days of absence would have tripled to more than 9,000 days. This would translate, according to many officers, an increasing stress due, in large part, to the terrorist context and to the many related tasks, preventing the focus from being on other matters. For its part, the Federal Police's Stresteam Service is increasingly involved. For 2016, he reportedly conducted 322 consultations. Minister, do you confirm these figures? To be able to interpret them in a meaningful way, what are the figures from previous years? How do you position yourself against this problem and what means do you have to improve the situation? Little down on my question: a long time ago, even before the creation of the police zones and even when police personnel were still part of the communal staff, a study on absenteeism had been carried out on all communal staff. It was long before you were a minister, but already the police were distinguished by their most important absence rate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u79	Mr Flahaux, it is true that the rate of absenteeism is high in the police services. It averages 7.8 per cent in 2015 for the federal police and 7.9 per cent for the local police. These averages exceed those of federal public servants (6%) and the private sector. Between 2012 and 2015, there was an increasing trend not only in the police but in all sectors. For further information, I invite you to refer to my exhaustive answer to the questions raised by Messrs. Calomne and Kir (respectively No 20274 and No 20363 on the fight against absenteeism). It is planned in the short term to conduct a more in-depth study and monitoring of absenteeism in the police services. The identification of its causes, including stress, will form part of the absenteeism action plan that is currently being developed within the integrated police force, an action plan in which the unions are full partners and in which they actively collaborate. In the action plan that I will discuss later, a more in-depth study and monitoring of absenteeism in the police services is planned in the short term. The first detailed results of this monitoring should be expected for the first half of 2018, between April and May. I'll give you the figures provided by the Stresteam for the federal police and the local police. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this is the number of consultations per year and not the number of people who have consulted the Stresteam. The last column contains only burn out cases in 2016. In this case, the figure advanced of 322 is relatively close to the data provided, but since it is a number of consultations and not a number of files, no conclusions can be drawn. Detailed consultation figures are as follows: to the federal police, in 2012, almost 3,000 and in 2016, 3,063; to the local police, in 2012, 819 and in 2016, 390. With regard to your second question, I also refer you to the answers to the parliamentary questions already mentioned. The plan to combat absenteeism is currently in the process of reflection and consultation with the relevant partners (the federal police, the local police commission, trade unions, internal preventive services) and is expected to lead to the approval of an action plan by the end of October. Emphasis is placed on: the chain-based approach; the pursuit of a constructive and effective two-way policy in the area of absenteeism, in particular with a view to achieving optimum reintegration of staff and monitoring of possible abuses; an approach that is part of modern and flexible human resources management; the integral and integrated objective in which the comprehensive approach is aimed at both integrated police and different forms of absenteeism and their possible specific approach. The overall maturity of the programme is scheduled for three years. Nevertheless, many measures have already been envisaged in the short term. I am thinking here of the unambiguous definition, within the integrated police, of absenteeism, the monitoring and benchmarking of the figures, the reorientation of the medical service according to a two-pronged policy, and the optimisation of a number of existing institutions, commissions, workplace practices and the establishment of local multidisciplinary consultations on reintegration and, last but not least, a more in-depth study, a monitoring of absenteeism within the police services. The unions also proposed their collaboration in this in-depth investigation into the possible causes of absenteeism. A first general meeting between the federal police, the CCPL and the unions took place on 22 August. Subsequently, on the basis of the proposals, suggestions and comments, a programme proposal was drawn up with the various projects. The aim is to ensure that these projects, within the framework of the absenteeism programme, which is carried out jointly with the same partners, form a joint action plan to be submitted to the Integrated Police Coordination Committee. This programme will then be evaluated every four months with the same partners in the presence of the trade union organisations. The progress achieved and its possible adjustment will be assessed here. As part of the decisions taken on key tasks within the police, we questioned the existence of a medical service within the police. There is no question here of the free provision of such a service, but of the necessity of its existence. I read the numbers of absenteeism. For my part, I believe that a medical department could deal with this problem. Indeed, if we could move from the current absenteeism rate of about 8 per cent to the average rate of 6 per cent, a huge capacity would be released at both the local and federal police levels. Recruitment costs enormously. It also takes time. Then, if we could find a way to improve the situation in terms of work, additional capacities will be automatically released within the integrated police force.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u80	Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive answer. Since the reform of the local police areas, the fact that former gendarmes and police officers have been assembled has not made it easier for you. Among the former communal police officers, each had its own tradition. All of this has been consolidated without any real personnel management policy. On the other hand, often – I have experienced it as president of a police zone – the ability to motivate is not the most common quality among chiefs of corps. They often produce hard administrative notes, whereas it is necessary to raise awareness, explain and convince. I am extremely satisfied with your answer. For me, you're talking about gold. I am confident that by reducing the absenteeism rate to 6 per cent, as is the case for public servants, we will gain a significant amount of work.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u81	Mr President, Minister, I have already had the opportunity to ask you about your plan to reduce the number of scientific and technical laboratories in order to meet European requirements. Since then, the trade union representatives of the scientific police who participate in the discussions with your services have repeatedly expressed their concern about the consequences of the proposed reform. According to them, keeping only five front offices for the collection of information on the ground and five back offices for their analysis throughout Belgium, as expected, would be a "true ineptitude". They believe that this loss of capacity will be felt on the ground by extending the time frame for investigations, increasing the risk of loss of information and degrading the quality of work. For them, reform will be costly in terms of efficiency. They also point out that there is a real risk of loss of knowledge of the terrain and therefore of the criminal environment, if at least fourteen front offices are not maintained throughout the country. In the face of these concerns, Minister, my questions are as follows. Is there a possibility of keeping fourteen laboratories rather than five, as the unions fear,? How do you respond to union representatives who believe that your reform will ultimately be costly and will only complicate the work of the scientific and technical police? With regard to the future of the 400 people currently working on all sites, what message do you send about their employment? Will their function evolve? Are there any transfers planned? Finally, are recruitments planned to enforce your reform and also to remedy the shortage of forensic officers?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u82	Mr President, Mr Thiébaut, thank you for this question. You give me the opportunity to clarify things and to put an end to the many rumours that are circulating in this regard. To be quite clear, the decision that was taken by my Justice colleague and myself is only about reducing the number of back offices of the forensic police that will be accredited. There are indeed five, i.e. one per court of appeal. With regard to the number of front offices that will be maintained, consultations are under way with the Minister of Justice on the possibility of keeping fourteen front offices to carry out certain technical and scientific police missions, such as the descent and taking of physical traces and clues at the scene of criminal and criminal acts. For front offices, other essential parameters come into play, such as proximity and service to police areas. The final decision on this subject will be taken shortly. I do not hide from you that I defend the front offices with great conviction. The accreditation of laboratories is expensive, so we would limit them to five. The fourteen front offices, i.e. the services which must be close to the citizen, would remain.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u83	Accreditation is expensive because of the new European standards.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u84	Yes, it is. With regard to your second question, I would like to stress that this reform is necessary in view of the requirement for accreditation imposed on us by the Council of Europe and its Framework Decision 2009/905/JHA of November 2009 on the accreditation of providers of scientific police services carrying out laboratory activities in the field of scientific police. For our part, this is not necessarily the financial aspect of optimisation per se, but mainly an improvement in the service offered and a strengthening of its quality. We want to set up a quality system within all the technical and scientific police sites to, among other things, strengthen international police cooperation, ensure the reliability of our methods of analysis and thus of our traces and indices, and also standardise and continue to professionalize our technical and scientific police. It is also true, however, that we have the ambition to invest, as a good father of the family, the means necessary to implement these changes within the police organization Forensic, while taking into account the budgetary and capacity realities that we currently have. From a budgetary point of view, it is clear that there is a considerable difference between the achievement of the necessary investments in five back offices rather than at most fourteen. My message to staff will be reassuring and positive. Every employee who works in the technical and scientific police laboratories has the guarantee to keep his or her job within the police organization. In view of the fact that the missions carried out within the front and back offices will be quite different, adjustments to the functional profiles for some of these staff members are likely to take place in the coming months. In this context, the "Quality" working group, set up within the judicial pillar, is currently looking at the competency matrix, and hence the related training and employee function profiles, but is waiting for a decision on the number of front offices. Transitional measures will also be developed. Finally, many initiatives have already been taken to address laboratory shortages. These steps continue, of course. An external recruitment of senior inspectors, specialized in technical and scientific police laboratories, is coming to an end. The next training, specialized and following the basic training, will be organised in 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u85	Minister, thank you for the quality and completeness of your answer. I hear you are going to plead for the maintenance of at least fourteen front offices, not five - as some rumours suggested. In a way, your present communication is therefore reassuring.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u86	Question No 21389, by Mr Demon and No 21390 Mrs Jadin's 21522 will be converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u87	Mr. Hellings will not be here to ask his question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u88	Minister, a site specializing in new technologies is reporting a news of particular concern. The security of millions of encryption keys, particularly used in national identity cards, has been seriously compromised. These are the codes developed by the German manufacturer of Infineon chips, which has been producing them since 2012. Weakness allows hackers to calculate the private part of any vulnerable key by using nothing more than the corresponding public part. Hackers can then use the private key to usurp the identity of their owner, decrypt sensitive data, insert malicious codes into digitally signed software, and bypass protections that prevent access or falsification of stolen PCs. The information is all the more troubling as these products meet international safety certification standards. Minister, are you aware of this flaw? Are Infineon chips or chips of the same type used in our ID cards? What measures are in place to ensure the protection of citizens' personal data?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u89	Mr. de Lamotte, electronic ID cards issued before March 1, 2004 contained a chip from Infineon. However, the problem does not lie in the chip itself, but in an optional library, which can be used to generate keys on the map. I must point out, however, that this library was not used to create keys in Belgian identity cards. Therefore, the problem does not arise for them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u90	Minister, thank you for reassuring us. The site was indeed quite alarming about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u91	Mr President, Minister, this subject is of particular interest to me. I have recently asked you about the situation of the road police in the province of Hainaut, which suffers from a shortage of staff. Obviously, in view of the reaction of the unions, your response did not convince since notice of strike was filed at the common front for the period from December 1, 2017 to January 2, 2018. The recent highway accidents, associated with the many construction sites currently in the province, for which you are not responsible, have had the gift of putting the patience of the motorists to the test, as well as the police officers who are not numerous enough to deal with them. The provincial president of SLFP recalls that in the province of Hainaut there are three traffic stations: Peruwelz, Mons and Charleroi. To date, there is a police personnel deficit of nearly 53% for all three positions. In Peruwelz, there are 16 police officers out of the 32 planned in the frame; in Mons, there are 14 police officers out of the 36 planned in the frame; in Charleroi, there are 20 police officers out of the 35 planned in the frame. In the face of this situation, the road police are on their knees and are waiting for reinforcements with insistence. Minister, do you have any answers to this dismay on the ground? Are any reinforcements planned? If so, when will they be effective and in what number?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u92	Mr Thiébaut, following the filing, on October 16, 2017, of the strike notice, it is planned to organize a union negotiation in the course of November 2017. The analysis of the capacity situation of the Federal Police of the Hainaut Road is currently under way. It is planned to provide all the answers to trade union questions during the same trade union negotiations. Note, however, that a consultation took place on 18 September 2017 between the Directorate of Road Police (DAH) and the Director-Coordinator of the province of Hainaut. It is clear from this consultation that the Federal Police of the Hainaut Road will benefit from the reinforcement of the intervention force of the Directorate of Coordination and Support of Hainaut, at the rate of two operational members per day. Finally, the Integrated Police recruited 1,600 officers in 2016. It is planned to carry out 1,400 recruitments in 2017, 2018 and 2019. The new police officers will be operational as of next year. In short, there is indeed a lack of capacity everywhere. We're busy recruiting. The police now have to manage the police leaving schools to send them to the various services. In the meantime, we will see concretely with the union how far we can go. As I said, we are at the highest level of recruitment. It takes a little time, it's true.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u93	Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u94	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Flahaux's 21398 will be placed in the Committee on Justice. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Calomne's 21402 was postponed. Questions Nos 21562 and 21580 by Mr Thiébaut were postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Delannois' 21422 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u95	Minister, ASN – the French equivalent of AFCN – has recently expressed concern about the "degraded" state of water circulation pipes of 29 of the 58 reactors in France's nuclear fleet. Cold water pumps could stop operating in the event of an earthquake or flood, says ASN in a press release. The problem was deemed to be serious enough to rank it at level 2 on the INES scale, which had not happened in the last five years. Unfortunately, it happened at home. Some pipes are so rusty that the thickness of their walls has decreased and they may not resist in the event of violent events, says the ASN. The problem is that these pipes are used to pump water from rivers or the sea to cool the essential components of reactors. Water tanks are provided in the event of temporary failure, but if the problem persists, a chain reaction leading to the fusion of nuclear fuel is to be feared. It was this type of failure that caused the Fukushima incident. "These degradations are the result of corrosion that may have developed in the absence of adequate preventive maintenance," explains the ASN press release. Minister, what is the situation in the Belgian park with regard to the problem of rust and the thickness of the walls of the water pipes? When were the last tests carried out on the subject? What were their results? Have you made any representations to the French authorities regarding the Chooz power station to which Mr Gilkinet is particularly attentive?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u96	Mr. Nollet, AFCN is aware of this incident. The problems of internal flood zones and the corrosion of pipelines have already been studied in the past, particularly in the context of periodic safety reviews of nuclear power plants. An analysis of the applicability and potential implications of this incident for Belgian power plants is under way. At the end of November, AFCN should know more about the issue and should know whether the analysis of the situation in France highlights new elements that have not yet been studied in the past. As part of its mission to protect the population, the AFCN is following closely the development of this issue. As far as contacts with France are concerned, I have an appointment with my French counterpart in November. We will then take the time to discuss many issues and I will put the safety of nuclear power plants on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u97	Minister, thank you for your answers. I will come back to the issue of corrosion at the beginning of December as the balance sheet will be completed by the end of November. I will also come back at the beginning of December to follow up on your meeting with your French colleague so that we can take stock of what my colleague Gilkinet rightly and regularly worries about the situation at the Chooz power station. I invite you to put this specific item on the agenda of this meeting with your French counterpart, on the basis of all the questions that Mr Gilkinet has asked you recently.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u98	Question No 21424 by Mr Gautier Calomne was postponed to a future meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u99	Mr. Minister, you're caught up, I'm sorry for you. This subject is really challenging, again. The local information commission (CLI) of the Chooz power station - a French body responsible for informing the populations bordering nuclear power stations - met on Monday, 16 October. It is clear from this meeting, where I was represented and which has been the subject of articles in the French press, that iodine tablets will now be distributed within a 20 km radius around the plant, compared to 10 km at present. This is positive information, except that these iodine pills are reserved for French villages and French citizens, as if the nuclear risk stopped at the borders. At that meeting, it was also announced that the nuclear safety instructions would be listed in a small booklet accompanying the coupon of the tablets - these tablets will have to be picked up from the pharmacist - specifying that the pills should only be swallowed if the instructions are given and how these instructions are to be distributed. It was also announced that the LTC would travel to each of the new municipalities affected by the distribution to inform the inhabitants of the distribution. This is a good French initiative, but we are wondering why it is not coordinated. I must not remind you that the Chooz power plant is literally enclaved in our territory and that radioactivity does not know borders. The difference in treatment between Belgian and French populations in relation to nuclear risk is particularly striking. Minister, have you been informed of French intentions to extend the scope of distribution of iodine pills around the Chooz power station? Do you know when the French populations concerned will have these pills? What about the Belgian population, just as much or even more exposed to nuclear risk? I confess to having read the answer you gave last week to my excellent colleague and group leader Jean-Marc Nollet. If there is a gap in the distribution of pills between the French population and the Belgian population, you will admit that this is a problem, at least psychological. Will Belgian residents also receive iodine pills? How long? By what means? Will they have instructions for use in this regard? Will it be the same as for the nearby French populations? Are information sessions also planned on the Belgian side of the border? What about the information to the Belgian population concerned in case of an incident about the need to take these pills? One might imagine that France is inviting these pills to be swallowed and that Belgium is not doing it or vice versa. In general, how do the French and Belgian authorities coordinate on this issue? Would it not be useful to provide for uniform and coordinated treatment of this "iodine" problem between our two States? I am thinking here of the problem of Chooz, but also of Gravelines, since I am also concerned about my fellow citizens who live in West Flanders.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u100	Mr President, dear colleague, my services and the experts of AFCN and Bel V, via the ASN, have very regular and in-depth contacts with the Prefecture of the Ardennes. They had been informed for more than a year of the French authorities' intentions to extend the scope of distribution of iodine tablets around the Chooz power station to 20 km, a measure which we look forward to because it complies with what we have been applying in Belgium since 2002. According to the information we have obtained from the Interministerial Defence and Civil Protection Service of the Ardennes Prefecture, the predistribution of iodine tablets in pharmacies located in the area of 10 km around Chooz has just been completed. Still lacks the deliberation of all the municipalities to validate the extension of this measure within 20 km. Distribution within 20 km is expected to be implemented effectively by the end of 2018, but the official guidelines will still need to be communicated. Iodine tablets have already been available in Belgium since 2002 for populations within 20 km of Belgian, Dutch and French nuclear sites. Since in Belgium, these tablets are considered a medicine, they have been predistributed with their instructions for use in pharmacies which then make them available to the population. A new campaign to predistribute iodine tablets and their instructions for use and an information campaign on nuclear risk are planned for February-March 2018. However, approval of the new nuclear emergency plan remains a prerequisite for these campaigns. The 20-kilometre predistribution strategy is confirmed in the new plan, but it also provides for an extension of this measure to 100 kilometres around nuclear and radiological sites. This will therefore lead to predistribution in pharmacies throughout Belgium, with particular attention to priority groups (children, pregnant women, nursing women and the elderly who keep their grandchildren). In the event of an emergency at Chooz, crisis management is organised on the basis of an in-depth analysis of the situation and consultation between the corresponding bodies of the two countries, both at local and national level, on the following areas: alert, radiological analysis, decision-making, implementation of protection measures and information to the population. Crisis structures will ensure a coherent approach to the protection measures to be taken on each side of the border, including the taking of iodine tablets. These measures will be communicated to the population through the information channels provided for in the emergency plans. As far as Belgium is concerned, the information unit at the federal level, in collaboration with the officials of discipline 5 (communication) at the local level, will communicate the necessary information to the population. This bilateral arrangement for collaboration between counterpart bodies is complemented by a communication mechanism with international bodies, the European Union and the IAEA. The messages sent by France to these international bodies are then transmitted by France to the various Member States, including Belgium. In terms of technical and radiological analysis, the experts of AFCN and its subsidiary Bel V work closely together bilaterally and in international forums with their French counterparts from the ASN and the IRSN to coordinate their expertise. An integrated cooperation agreement also exists between the federal services of the Governor (SFG) of Namur and the Prefecture of the Ardennes in the field of emergency planning and crisis management concerning, inter alia, the Chooz nuclear power plant. In this context, the Namur SFGs are contacted by the Chooz nuclear power plant for any type of incident that occurs there and then pass on the relevant information to the Belgian communes in the area. The powers are divided between the two countries, so that in the event of a nuclear incident, the French PPI, which is extended to 20 kilometres, applies on French territory, and the Belgian PPOI, on our territory. Finally, a draft letter of intent on emergency planning and crisis management has been drawn up by the interior administrations of our two countries. In particular, it aims at relaunching the working group on the protection of populations, provided for in the Franco-Belgian agreement of 8 September 1998 on the Chooz nuclear power plant, as well as the exchange of information in the event of an incident or accident.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u101	Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive answer. You are talking about a draft letter and a revival of the coordination bodies. Does that mean it's not working right now?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u102	Agreements simply need to be renewed after a certain period of time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u103	So we're in a renewal phase.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u104	That's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u105	Our hope is, of course, that there will never be a nuclear incident. But in case of an incident, it's about protecting everyone in the same way. You know our concern about nuclear risk and my particular concern about the Chooz power plant. Added to this is the issue of coordination between the two authorities, Belgian and French. I'm really asking you to pay attention to it. When Belgians learn that there is a distribution of iodine pills in France - even if it is an enlargement that aligns with what is happening in Belgium - they feel that they are not being considered how stakeholders of this risk. Beyond that, if one day there is an incident, it is essential that the reactions be coordinated in terms, in particular, of information on the taking of these iodine pills. It is important to remind him regularly and all the links in the chain must feel concerned, starting with the minister and the local authorities and nuclear safety authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u106	Debates of the European Parliament 21439 by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu will be converted into a written question. According to the agenda, we are now ready to deal with my question No. 21444 together with Mr Terwingen's question, but they will be placed a little further on the agenda. Debates of the European Parliament (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Thiébaut's 21562 were converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u107	Mr President, Minister, every new football season, sports authorities set a new match schedule. The security measures put in place around these events are important, especially in this period of terrorist threat. However, the impact of the timetable on the cost of this security is not negligible. At the beginning of the season, the local authorities and the police areas concerned have the opportunity to state their wishes, in particular as regards the availability of sufficient police capacity and the impact in terms of overtime. These considerations are integrated into the unilateral decision-making process of sports bodies and must also be part of the time slots established with regard to television rights. Through this process, police intervention is immediately limited to a particular momentum that can come into confrontation with other police tasks. Minister, what was the cost of the security measures put in place for the Pro League games last season? What is the responsibility of each of the competent authorities/institutions, i.e. the federal police and police areas? How are local interests integrated into the development of the match schedule, particularly in light of the fact that some municipalities have other activities for them? I'm not talking about risky games, I'm talking about Pro League games. How are television rights integrated into the development of the match schedule? Do local authorities and especially the mayors have the opportunity to refuse to stop the calendar, to set certain matches at certain times (day, Saturday, Sunday, Friday) or at certain times of the day, which is obviously important? I'll add an element. I know that a Standard-Antwerp match called "at risk" took place in Liège. For this game, the police zone counted 15,000 euros of overtime per hour. Care is therefore relatively important and is the responsibility of all citizens. I had not placed this additional element in my written question, but I wanted to mention it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u108	Mr de Lamotte, in order to answer these questions, my services contacted the federal police and the Pro League. It is impossible to provide an exact cost, since the cost depends on a variety of factors, such as the length of service, the number of hours worked, the timing of the match, etc. The overall cost estimate is based on an estimate of the number of hours worked and the costs incurred per hour. Various factors can also influence this global deployment, such as the number of games, the composition of divisions and play-offs, and the occasional crises within a given club, which go hand in hand with supporters' protests. Since 2015-2016, the level 3 of the general terrorist threat has also been taken into account during sporting events, which also leads to a slight increase in numbers. On the basis of the composition of a platoon, it can be assumed that a medium-sized service consists as follows: 3 per cent of officers, 13 per cent of middle-level police officers and 84 per cent of middle-level police officers and auxiliaries. The estimated cost in euro for the past season is 6.7 million. It is important to point out that the comparison in figures with previous seasons will be difficult to achieve in view of the profound change in the championships. The first and second divisions of the 2015-2016 season were 16 and 17 teams, respectively, while the Pro League 1A and 1B of this season were 16 and 8 teams, respectively. This change also has an impact on the number of matches played in regular competition and in play-offs. Finally, the play-offs between 1A and 1B teams make it even more difficult to set numbers by division. As far as the distribution of the financial burden is concerned, the benefits of the policy are generally not paid. There are currently no practical arrangements for imposing the payment of benefits, whether for an intervention in or outside the stadium, nor are there any lists drawn up by royal decree referring to the administrative police missions for which compensation can be received from the organizers. However, some municipalities apply a tax to the club; others have an arrangement for financial intervention to compensate for police deployment. This question of the charging of police costs is still open at both Belgian and other European Member States. There are differences between police areas in terms of mobilization. On the one hand, they are objectively based on the specific situation of each police area and on an analysis of the dynamic risks of the different meetings (situation of the stadium, infrastructure, number of supporters, etc.).). On the other hand, the difference in approach and mobilisation is often linked to the way in which the mayors and/or the police carry out their responsibilities for the maintenance of public order. Thus, in some cases, preference is given to quantitative rather than qualitative deployment of the police. The choice of police deployment is therefore decided by the local authorities. The impact of the cost of maintaining order on the organiser of the meeting is therefore delicate, since the organiser does not take part in this decision. Finally, when a police zone requests reinforcement, this reinforcement can come from both the federal police and another local area that has to bear the cost. This is a discussion that must be conducted politically in the light of the issues and implications arising therefrom. What benefits? At what point? What about discussions on the number of police officers who will be engaged only for football? What about other festive events? During the development of the Jupiler Pro League, Proximus League and Amateur Division 1 calendar, all mayors are invited to make their wishes known to the URBSFA calendar manager. As such, all their requirements are considered to be binding. The hours of the Jupiler Pro League games are known to the mayors and have been the same for the last six seasons – and will remain the same for the next two seasons – Friday at 8:30 p.m., Saturday at 6 p.m., 8 p.m. and 8:30 p.m. and Sunday at 2.30 p.m., 6 p.m. and 8 p.m. The hours of the Proximus League are as follows: Friday at 8:30 p.m., Saturday at 5 p.m. and 8:30 p.m. and Sunday at 4 p.m. On the other hand, no schedule is specified for amateur division 1 meetings. The URBSFA calendar manager will therefore take into account both the broadcast hours and the requirements of the mayors, while ensuring the balance of the sport calendar. Indeed, a club cannot play two days in a row. There must be at least two full days between the two meetings. For example, a club that plays on Thursdays will not be able to participate in a meeting until the following Sunday. Finally, the mayors do have the competence to refuse the running of a game. However, prior consultation of the manager of the calendar and the mayor by the manager of the file avoids such a situation. Indeed, since 2011, this consultation with local authorities prior to the publication of the calendar offers the possibility of making the latest adjustments if a problem still arises. If such a ban were to be imposed, a solution would be sought with the local authorities. It may also happen that exceptional circumstances, unknown at the time of the release of the calendar – as was the case two years ago due to the rise in the level of the threat – prevent the organization of the meeting. In this case, the matches were postponed. Contact was immediately made with the local authorities with a view to finding a new date for them. Some mayors also impose conditions for holding meetings, for example by providing only for certain days and/or hours. These requirements do not pose any difficulties with regard to the timing and conduct of meetings. On the other hand, television rights holders must adapt to these rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u109	Minister, thank you for your detailed answer. If I understand correctly, the mayors are contacted before setting the annual calendar of seasons. With respect to Friday, Saturday and Sunday match times, are they permanently blocked in the calendar? Could we not negotiate that the games do not take place at 8:00 p.m. or 6:00 p.m.? Overtime for the police is higher at those times. Could a mayor refuse matches at these hours on the days you just mentioned? This is a supplementary question, but it specifies your report. I thank you from the outset for the elements provided in your report which I will read with great attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u110	As always, the mayor has responsibility for security. If he believes that the time of the game can influence the safety of the game, it is his responsibility to contact the organizers to find a solution. Such arrangements are always made on the basis of consultation and not unilaterally. The concertation is always with the organizers and the Pro League. The mayor with responsibility for security can, in extreme situations, cancel matches. On the other hand, he cannot systematically refuse them in his municipality or town at a specific time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u111	I take note of this effect of systematic refusal. The mayor should be able to say, at the beginning of the concertation, that he does not want a match at any time. This poses other types of problems. I hear that the debate is not closed because the cost of law enforcement in risky games is high. You yourself mentioned the figure of 6.7 million for the municipal taxpayer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u112	Question No 54, by Mr De Pasquale 21460 by Mrs Katja Gabriels and No 21460 by Mrs Gabriels and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u113	Minister, a serious deterioration of concrete has just been observed in the Doel 3 bunker. This bunker houses backup systems such as emergency pumps and diesel generators. The degradation of the detected concrete calls into question the guarantee of the operation of these emergency systems, leading to a serious increase in the risk of an external accident. However, the operation of these systems must be guaranteed at all times. Minister, can you tell us more about what has been discovered and why this has not been seen more quickly? Can you also assure us that none of the other six reactors are affected by a similar situation? What lessons do you learn from this situation related to the aging of our power plants? Was this incident classified on the INES scale?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u114	Mr Nollet, at the beginning of October, during a planned stop at Doel 3 planned to carry out the annual maintenance of the plant, a deterioration of concrete in the bunker was observed during an inspection by the operator. This is more precisely a degradation of the roof of a space housing the steam exhausts. This space is not accessible during the operation of the reactor because of the significant thermal risks to the personnel. The bunker houses second-level backup systems such as emergency pumps and "bunkerized" diesel generators. The operation of this emergency system must be guaranteed at all times and therefore this building must withstand any event. The degradation of the detected concrete undermines the building's resistance, which increases the risk of an external accident. The condition of the concrete will therefore be strengthened during this planned stop. This reinforcement will have to be completed before restarting the reactor. However, this event did not have an impact on the health of workers, the population, the environment or the operation of the facilities. The safety authority requested a reflection on the condition of concrete in similar premises in other reactors. With the information available, the operator was able to demonstrate credibly that the other reactors are not a priori affected by the degradation mechanism. Nevertheless, the premises will be checked at the next stop because, as you said, you cannot enter it when the plant is operating. Analyses are still under way to demonstrate whether degradation is related to aging or whether there are other parameters that play a role. After analysis, this event is currently classified at level 1 on the INES scale. Further analysis is under way, which could result in a level adjustment to an INES 0 or a non-safety incident.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u115	Minister, since the analyses are under way, I will probably come back in December on this subject. Do you have any idea how long it takes to complete the work at Doel 3?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u116	I don't have that information, but we won't start until the work is done.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u117	Yes, you did say that in your answer. Therefore, I will ask you again about the current analysis and the time it takes. Minister, thank you for your answer and for your availability today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u118	Debates of the European Parliament Question No 215, by Mrs Jadin: Question No 215, by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu: Question No 215, by Mr Kir and Question No 215, by Mr Kir Mrs Jadin's 21570 will be converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u119	Mr. President, Minister, a number of current developments have once again brought the issue of sexual harassment to the forefront, both internationally and in our country. As we know, too many victims, for various reasons, do not file complaints as a result of such acts. It is my regular responsibility that some of them fear to meet with the police for fear of being tried, not being taken seriously, being guilty, etc. Of course, I have no doubt that such actions are exceptional and that the vast majority of agents receive the victims with all due professionalism. Nevertheless, this fear persists in many people who have been subjected to this type of harassment. Mr Minister, you know that in the Social Empowerment Opinion Committee, we worked for three or four months on this issue, not only with regard to the police but also with regard to judges, hospitals, doctors, etc. Because the problem is also in the management of follow-up. What do you think about this problem? Have you taken any action or will you take any action? What means do you have to encourage these people to speak and, above all, to file a complaint?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u120	Mr Flahaux, as answered in plenary session on Thursday 19 October to the questions posed by Mrs Winckel and Mr M. Van Hees on this point, I repeat my view that, whatever the complaint, the police are expected to take every complaint seriously and that every victim who files a complaint is treated professionally. This is a fundamental principle that must prevail in this area. It is therefore essential to break the taboo around this issue. Indeed, while the messages delivered in recent days by the media show totally unacceptable situations both inside and outside our borders, only 10% of the victims, for various reasons, file a complaint with the police services. Measures to combat this phenomenon are included in the note "Integral Security 2016-2019", in the National Security Plan 2016-2019 and in the National Action Plan to Combat Gender-Related Violence 2015. To answer your question, I can tell you that during their basic training, police officers are aware of this issue. In addition, a computerized manual "Delictions of Mors" has been widely distributed. The Field Response Guide also incorporates the various procedures in place for sexual violence. In addition, tools are available to enable our police officers to intervene professionally and adequately in the care of victims. With regard to the means used to encourage victims to speak and file complaints, victims should continue to be encouraged to file complaints, including through awareness-raising campaigns, multidisciplinary interviews following victimization and through surveys of victims. I would also like to refer to the initiatives taken by my colleague Zuhal Demir, who has made the fight against this phenomenon a priority. It will launch public awareness campaigns, training for professionals facing this issue, and three pilot projects in November. Among them, the establishment of sexual violence centres providing a multidisciplinary reception for victims of sexual violence and where hospital staff and specially trained police officers will accompany victims. Finally, it will also launch a comprehensive study on the phenomenon of sexual violence in order to measure its scale more accurately.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u121	Minister, thank you for your answer. The subject is really important. This is also a question of generation. The members of the police, who belong to the younger generation and among whom there are more women, are more open than the police officers "of my age", both against women and men or sexual minorities such as transgender or gay. Minister, I know that, like Secretary of State Zuhal Demir, you are very attentive to the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u122	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Thiébaut's 21580 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u123	Minister, on 18 October 700 policemen in 16 cities, including Cologne, Wuppertal, Leverkusen and Düsseldorf, were invaded in houses and commercial premises. This happened after the Home Secretary Herbert Reul of the CDU of the Netherlands North Rhine-Westphalia banned the Hells Angels MC Concrete City and its sister organization Clan 81 Germany. The country government had previously announced a zero tolerance against criminal rockers gangs, who, in its view, undermine the rule of law and violate the government's monopoly of violence. Of course, the activities of these criminal motorcycle gangs do not stop at national borders. They also have their branches in the Netherlands and Belgium, including in the border region. In May 2017, the media also reported that there was some sort of strength measurement growing between the Hells Angels and the Outlaws in Genk. In the Netherlands, the number of criminal motorcycle gangs increased sharply between 2010 and 2015. A lot has also been added in Belgium. The Benelux Consultative Parliament, of which I have recently been a member, has already discussed the cross-border approach to the problem of the so-called outlaw motorcycle gangs or OMGs. There is now a possibility that, because of the strict approach of the government in North Rhine-Westphalia of the Hells Angels and probably also of other criminal motorcycle gangs, and the stricter approach in the Netherlands, criminal activities will shift to the provinces of Limburg and Liège. You announced in 2015 that you would work more closely with the Netherlands and Germany to tackle cross-border problems with criminal motorcycle gangs, and you also mentioned the detection and prosecution of the gangs as criminal organisations. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Firstly, is there any consultation with Germany, in particular with the Land of North Rhine-Westphalia, on the cross-border activities of criminal motorcycle gangs with a view to reducing security risks? Secondly, is there an information communication on the measures taken, whether administratively or judicially, by the Dutch and German authorities in order to assess the effects in Belgium? Thirdly, does this cross-border problem also arise with criminal motorcycle gangs from France and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg? Fourthly, what is the state of play regarding the intention to amend the existing police cooperation agreement between Belgium, the Netherlands and Luxembourg in order to facilitate the exchange of administrative information on criminal gangs by local authorities in the border regions? Fifthly, is there now an evaluation of the action plan on the administrative approach of those motor gangs and cooperation with Germany and the Netherlands? Finally, how do you think cooperation on this issue with the Netherlands and Germany can be increased?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u124	Mr Vermeulen, I am going to answer your questions systematically. As for your first and fifth questions, from information available to the Highsider cell, there is currently little spillover effect from Dutch criminal motorcycle gangs who want to move to our country. In the province of Limburg, and under the leadership of the parquet, the working group Criminale Motorgangs meets about bimonthly. It consists of magistrates, local and federal police, and the RIEC Limburg. The working group sets out strategic lines, promotes a uniform approach, e.g. model regulations on the licensing of the club houses, disseminates methodologies and follows the evolution of the clubs based on the imaging provided by the AIK. In this way, clubs, members and chapterrs come into the picture as soon as they engage in activities from abroad in Limburg. RIEC Limburg provides ad hoc support and know-how when mayors are confronted with the clubs. For example, there was the clubhouse of Satutarah in Hasselt and an event of Satutarah in Sint-Truiden. As regards cooperation with Germany and Luxembourg, I refer to the exploration carried out from the Benelux Task Force in the Euregio, which resulted in the Tackling Crime Together report and the preparatory work for the establishment of the EURIEC. For further explanations on EURIEC, please refer to the oral question No. Mr Terwingen. The Action Plan on the administrative approach of motor gangs is still in progress and has not yet been evaluated. This brings me to your second and sixth questions. The Highsider cell of the federal judicial police that succeeds the criminal motorcycle gangs is only occasionally kept informed of actions and investigations in the Netherlands and Germany. This information is currently being shared through the two Limburg Regional Information and Expertise Centres (RIECs). These exist both in the Netherlands and Belgium and were established for the administrative approach to organised crime, including the motorcycle gangs. From there, communication is always made with the concerned or with all the mayors. A consultant from the Dutch Limburgs RIEC acts as a direct liaison and also has its own workplace at the Belgian Limburgs RIEC. For your information, we also have a RIEC in Antwerp and there is a provision in Namur. In the Aachen declaration of 2016 between the Netherlands, Belgium and North Rhine-Westphalia it was decided to launch a strategic consultation. This meeting was scheduled for July this year, but was postponed until further notice by the Netherlands. As part of the Steering Committee of the Aachen Declaration, there is a proposal to examine whether the judicial files can be recentralised with Europol, in order to obtain a better picture and to assess whether or not we can deal with motorcycle gangs in the border region by means of a judicial and/or administrative strategy. In reply to your third question, I can tell you that there is indeed cross-border activity of criminal motorcycle gangs from Luxembourg and to a lesser extent from France. It concerns a limited number of files. Following the administrative measures taken in the Netherlands, no direct relocation effect was noted. The club acts more as a criminal network, facilitator, because members can commit criminal offences individually or in a limited group. It's not so much that a club runs all the criminal activities and would then move them across the border for the sake of the approach. In reply to your fourth question, I would point out that the negotiations between Belgium, the Netherlands and Luxembourg on the adaptation of the police cooperation treaty are under way. Further work is being carried out on the basis of a draft text drawn up by the Netherlands. The aim is to conclude the negotiations in early 2018 during the Belgian Presidency of the Benelux. The chapter on the exchange of information will include the exchange of police information with administrative authorities for administrative purposes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic759x.u125	Minister, I am very pleased about the cooperation and the bimonthly meeting of the team. However, I regret the progress of the planned cooperation with the Netherlands and North Rhine-Westphalia. According to the Aachen Declaration of 2016, this cooperation would start in 2017, but it is almost 2018. I hope that we will be able to put some more pressure on this cooperation. I note that you wish to conclude the cooperation agreement between the Netherlands, Belgium and Luxembourg during the Belgian Presidency of the Benelux countries.
