ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u2	The general discussion was suspended at the plenary session of 9 March 2017 following an opinion from the Council of State on the amendments tabled in plenary. The general discussion was suspended in plenary on 9 March 2017 following a request for an opinion to the Council of State on amendments tabled in plenary. Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Denis Ducrame, Olivier Chastel, Françoise Schepmans, Jean-Jacques Flahaux, Koen Metsu, Katja Gabriëls.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u3	The general discussion has resumed. The general discussion was resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u4	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u5	Mrs Smeyers also refers to the written report. Mr Ducrame, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u6	Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking the opposition for the lengthy debates we have had on this proposal for no less than seven months. I would like to congratulate them for their endurance, and the majority for their endurance.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u7	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u8	If you say so, Mrs. Onkelinx. It's a good proposition, as is ours. I shall briefly go back to this proposal, which we have discussed many times already in committee, asking for a large number of opinions on which I will come back. We also started a debate in plenary about a month and a half ago, when a number of amendments were tabled, with requests for opinions from the opposition to the Council of State on these amendments. I will go back to the summary elements of this proposal, which we are submitting. The level of terrorist threat remains high in our country. Action has been taken by the government and we are working, opposition and majority, on recommendations within the framework of the Attentats Commission. We will soon have to conclude this important work. In addition to that, we continue to debate a number of proposals in the Committee on Terrorism. This proposal aims to empower the mayors who are confronted with establishments suspected of terrorist activity. These mayors are often without tools. They must, as we have already seen, use urban or fire safety considerations to find a parade. This is not always possible, as a number of mayors have told us in the hearings organised by the Attentats Committee. The mayor of Verviers, for example, explained to us that it was not always feasible, and the mayor of Malines told us that, in this kind of situation, it was through the planning or fire safety section that he could act. This proposal aims to extend the competence of the administrative police offered to the mayor by Article 134quinquies of the new communal law to the act constituting one of the terrorist offences covered by Title 1 ter of Book II of the Criminal Code, as already exists - I stress - to combat trafficking in human beings. Thanks to our disposition, the mayor will henceforth have the power to close an establishment when there are serious indications that there are activities that constitute a terrorist offence, after prior consultation - it is important - with the judicial authorities, and after hearing the owner or occupant of the premises so that he can assert his defences. Indeed, we wanted this proposal to be perfectly balanced. The proposed closure measure is, of course, a preventive measure, as well as measures already taken by the federal government to deal with the phenomenon of terrorism. As I have indicated, in order to order the closure of an institution, serious evidence of the conduct of a terrorist offence must be established to the requisite degree of law. The mayor must therefore base his action on formal elements, concrete elements which can, of course, find at their source a complaint and/or police reports or information provided by the Public Prosecutor's Office. The aim here is to provide an additional tool. We have had quite a long debate on whether or not this is a new tool. Of course, it is not because the bill under consideration is in fact based on existing provisions. I am thinking in particular of Article 134quinquies of the new communal law drawn, moreover, from a proposal by Mrs Vanessa Matz. We have had the opportunity to return to this unanimously passed bill on combating trafficking in human beings and to give the mayor the opportunity to close down these places of trafficking. We have also drawn inspiration from article 9bis of the Act of 24 February 1921 on trafficking in poisonous, soporific, astounding, psychotropic, disinfectant or antiseptic substances and substances that may be used for the illicit manufacture of narcotic and psychotropic substances. In 2006 and 2012, new provisions strengthened the administrative power of the mayor. This is strictly the case with regard to the closure by the mayor of establishments in respect of which there are serious indications of activities constituting a terrorist offence. As I have already indicated, we have taken the time, as this type of sensitive proposal requires, to conduct a balanced dialogue which has enabled us to listen to a number of opinions. There was the Council of State, which recognized the constitutionality of the proposal. It was a fundamental first step. We have also sought the opinion of the Minister of the Interior, who has proved to be in favour. We asked for the opinion of the College of Attorneys General, which was also positive. Another important opinion was that of the associations of cities and municipalities. In the course of the debates in committee, we were open to what could change the proposal. Thus, three amendments were adopted. For legal reasons, first of all, but also in order to ensure consistency with the other provisions on administrative police covered by the new communal law, in particular the obligation to have the decision validated by the municipal college - I will come back to that. Mr Demeyer, we were able to have an exchange on this: you had argued in favour of involving the College in such a decision. We wanted to be consistent with the old provisions and listen to your suggestions. That is why we have also proposed this amendment. Yes, one thing is clear: we opt for the administrative route, while obviously surrounding this new prerogative of the boundaries necessary for its exercise. I have referred from the outset to respect for the rights of the defence through the prior hearing of the individual, the obligation of proportionality of the measure which must be justified and may be the subject of an appeal to the Council of State. Of course, there has been sufficient emphasis on the temporary nature of this measure: a maximum of six months. Another principle that we consider to be fundamental is the prior consultation with the Public Prosecutor's Office. After the lengthy discussions in committee, which led to amendments being tabled by the majority, it is now a matter of action. We have been able, and I welcome it, to vote in committee on this text without a majority-opposition split. The CDH supported him in this way. The mature and useful debates, which have not been subject to political friction in the pejorative sense of the term, allow us to debate in this plenary session a perfectly concluded bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u9	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on 7 March, following the interventions of the opposition, in particular those of my excellent colleagues Stéphane Crusnière and Emir Kir, the text was referred to the Council of State. He's coming back to us. I would like to say it all from go, because this text comes from the Temporary Committee on the Fight against Terrorism: our objective is not to challenge the measure. In fact, we must give ourselves the legislative means to act on this subject without asking for the texts (planning texts, fire protection texts or certain judgments of the public prosecutor's office as I have been forced to do). That said, the method does not seem correct to us. It is not enough to take the time to make the text quite satisfactory. Why, in our view, is the text not appropriate? First of all, because the measure will be ineffective. This matter is not treated as a noisy coffee in a neighbourhood, with temporary measures, perhaps successive ones, that will have to be taken up again. Secondly, this text is dangerous. It is dangerous for local authorities and will therefore not apply. Thirdly, it is dangerous, even if - I concede - it has experienced improvements. The opinion of justice is important in a logic that we do not share, but it is important. Ratification by the college is also important even if the college will be placed under the same conditions as the mayor. In this regard, the analogy suggested to me by several members of this Assembly with the text on trafficking in human beings does not convince us. What were we supposed to do? In our view, it is the prosecutor's office that must take responsibility, as it does in making certain decisions. The prosecutor's office is actually the federal. And the federal government, once again, minister, is running away from its responsibilities by rejecting to the cities and communes responsibilities that they do not have. He runs away from his responsibilities both politically and financially. I come to a slightly broader consideration. Why? Because I believe that this text is inspired by a general philosophy. Here are some examples! Federal police are emptying. We're told we're going to ask to fill in the executives. We're waiting to see. Federal police are privatizing themselves. The debate is ongoing, Minister. With the MFO-2, the hypothecized capacity – you have produced a text for the Attentats Committee – will weigh on cities and municipalities with threats of sanctions, ladies and gentlemen, if we do not go in that direction. And finally, more broadly, the distinction – and we are going in this direction, here precisely – between the administrative police and the judicial police will fade. This change will further entail the responsibilities of both local authorities and local finance. It will, ladies and gentlemen, be the best collega's, the responsibility of the mayors. And I have had enough singular interviews with many of you in all groups to know that you are aware of it and that you are aware of it. I'd like to say it here. I won't say it again. I probably won't have the opportunity to repeat it anymore, but I would like to say it once at least. And the measure proposed to us today goes in this direction, that is, the accountability of the mayors on federal matters and the blurring of the distinction between the administrative police and the judicial police. Clearly, Minister, this is the Antwerp model. I would even say the N-VA model, without it being aggressive. Simply, you have a model. What I blame is that they sell it to us as a sausage, per slice: a slice, a second slice, a third slice. I think it would be in the interests of the country, this House and the functioning of the State to discuss your vision as a whole. It's not all to throw away. It has some interesting elements. But discussing it piece by piece leads to a form of suspicion. We put this model in place without having really discussed it. Mr President, Minister, I conclude. We agree with the general objective. I will not let it be said that we are lax, that we do not want to react. But we believe that we should not subscribe to the method, not only because the means, the proposed process is inefficient and dangerous, but also because it involves a further postponement of burdens on local authorities, which is not acceptable. We will therefore vote against this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will in turn try to be brief and to highlight the main points that we have already made during the discussions in committee. These have been included in the various opinions of the Council of State, which we have received. First of all, on behalf of my group, I would like to say that the fight against terrorism is a political priority, but above all that the role of local authorities and mayors is fundamental in this fight. The principle of strengthening mechanisms for the exchange of information, mechanisms for action or even mechanisms for preventive action poses no problem to us, but on the contrary. We're really involved. I refer again to the Committee of Inquiry into the attacks of 22 March. All the cases of terrorists that we analysed included an important local dimension, whether it concerns the work of the local police or working in the neighbourhoods. It is known that the police and local authorities obviously know their neighbourhood much better. They have always had an important role to play, or could have played an even more important role. On this principle, we find ourselves there. On the other hand, a set of criteria – and I will refer to the remarks of the Council of State – seem to us problematic in this bill. First of all, the principle of proportionality. Questions on this subject were asked in committee; the answers were either unsatisfactory or non-existent. The Council of State had already pointed out that the proposal under consideration constituted a significant interference with the freedom of trade and industry and, for that reason, it was necessary to demonstrate its proportionality in a convincing manner. In our view, the answers provided were not sufficient. Secondly, we wonder whether it is more appropriate to entrust the decision not to the mayors but to the judicial authorities in charge of research, whose job it is to carry out such closures. Consequently, the Council of State points out that prior consultation with the judicial authorities, envisaged in the article of the new communal law as proposed, may in any case be unfeasible or, at the very least, inappropriate because of the secrecy of information and investigation. There is therefore a concrete problem. Several opinions were given to us, some of which were positive – as Mr Ducrame reminded us – and others much more critical, such as those of the Unions of Cities and Municipalities. In conclusion, the text is imperfect. It is impractical and inefficient in the fight against terrorism. We find ourselves quite well in the conclusion of the Council of State, which I quote: "The closure measure envisaged by the proposal may thus be considered disproportionate, because it is useless, in relation to its infringement of the fundamental freedoms of the operator or owner of the establishment." We fully agree with this analysis. The other important point, in our view, is that, in order to put such a provision in place, it must be by order or with greater involvement of the public prosecutor's office and the judicial authorities. That is why, as it stands, we cannot support this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u11	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you are faced with a mayor who is asking for more effective instruments to deal with all kinds of crimes and crimes. You are also faced with a mayor who is sometimes particularly frustrated by the lack of efficiency in the performance, the lack of speed with which parquets work and so on. Minister, I also made it clear in the previous debate, but you were not there, that unlike...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u12	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u13	I was two minutes late. I'd like to explain to you what happened. In any event, Minister, in the previous debate I made it clear that, despite the suggestions made about the opposition, you will always find an ally in the sp.a in the search for greater efficiency in security policy. I also share your opinion and that of the government that we should not create the illusion that we can guarantee absolute security for everyone at any time, but that it must be a common effort to achieve the maximum. That is also the inspiration of all our interventions on security policy, even today. I read in the newspaper today Mr Degroote's comments on the efficiency of military commitment to police work. Our group has been saying for years where efficiency gains can be achieved, and the government is advocating this, but for some reason it is not. For example, I drew attention to the conclusions of an investigation in police zones, which show that there is a lack of coherence in the recommendations sometimes formulated by the Security Council on the basis of OCAD analyses. For example, I, like other Members of this House, have pointed out that until today there has been a structural problem of the flow of information between federal police forces and local police forces, between judicial services and local police services. There is still a problem, especially in those places where people are supposed to hang on and follow clearly. There is also still a problem because local police services cannot use cameras in stations and in subway trains locally. You announced a new law on this matter. I believe that everything is ready to create the network. Technical preparations are complete. We're two years later. But the legislation has not yet been implemented. I drew attention to the fact that the P Committee finds that there are far from everywhere LIVCs, not even in places that are considered risky. There is also little initiative from the government or the security services to force things where there is no LIVC. I have pointed out the effects of disseminating confidential information from State Security. I explicitly referred to what happened in the Flemish Parliament, where confidential reports from security services were made public. Apparently, no action was taken against that. The effects have been made clear to me by a number of representatives of security services. I also referred to the pressing demand of the police services to clarify the way in which dangerous psychiatric patients should be approached by the police. According to a report, danger is being created, both for police forces and for patients. Think of the Jonathan Jacob affair. No action has been taken. Mr Minister, I learned yesterday in the P Committee that all these reports and all these questions are on the table of the P Committee and on the table of the government. For one reason or another, everything gets stuck, so many months after the dramas that have happened to our country. I read in my view, Mr De Wever, that it is really necessary to create unity in the Brussels police structure. I read the same in the proposal of CD&V, the security plan, namely that we must effectively achieve a unit of security command in our capital. I read all that. When I speak to you about this, you say: 'Yes, but that is not in the coalition agreement'. As if the attacks were in the coalition agreement. As if the previous proposal on professional secrecy was in the coalition agreement. As if all the measures we have taken together in the meantime were in the coalition agreement. Minister, in terms of security and security in our capital, everyone agrees on this, except those who have their roots in the Brussels context. Furthermore, every analyst agrees that we need to achieve efficiency and a unit of command. You slide that forward with your party and also CD&V slides it forward. We'll do it, too. It is obvious, but the government says: 'It is not in the coalition agreement'. What we are experiencing here today, Mr Vice-President, is that there are two proposals on the table, in a kind of compromise. The MR gets a proposal and the NV-A gets a proposal. I would like to ask the government to what extent they are not even threatening the security policy in our country and in our cities. In fact, I come to the proposal of the MR, which we have indeed debated for a long time, even in the absence of the members of the government, in order to be able to effectively ask whether this is in line with the approach proposed by the government or by the security services. We do indeed have a number of questions. The questions are clear, I think. They're also completely neutral. All the questions, or almost all the questions I have, I also read very clearly in the opinion of the Council of State. The Council of State considers that prior consultation with the judicial authorities referred to in the legislative proposal is not feasible. This is also true in practice. What is even more important is that the Council of State says 'and we too say 'that it is not always advisable to be able to work quickly'. Here is the frustrated mayor, who wants to act but can't, because he has to consult first, he doesn't get advice and so on. It is also not always advisable. Another point, and this is an in-depth comment, also for the survival of this bill, is that this may affect the presumption of innocence. If a mayor is acting autonomously and perhaps arbitraryly, then the presumption of innocence, one of the basic rights of the European Convention on Human Rights, to which we were not going to touch, may have been violated. According to the Council of State, the measure will not be able to contribute effectively to the maintenance of public order or the prevention of crime. I can illustrate that, Minister. It is not always appropriate to fly in on the basis of police information or close all offices. It is also unclear to me; I have also put the question to the main producer, Mr Ducarme, which institutions are referred to here. Will they effectively allow mayors to close cases where people have passed on the OCAD list? Allow me to close the schools in Vilvoorde? Allow me to close the gambling offices? Allow me to shut down the station? Allow me to judge that all prayer rooms should be closed? I would like to know the implications of this bill because it is almost a basic rule that we can explain out here what the law is about if we approve it. I'm also asking these questions to the government. What is the consequence of this bill? After consulting his chief of police, can a mayor effectively close all these cases alone? Is that the point? Isn't that the point? Does he have the authority to do that, or not? Mr Minister, my fellow Members and I sometimes get frustrated, just like the police, when it may be necessary to act in the context of maintaining public order, but we are effectively informed that there is a judicial investigation, that there are telephone taps, that we want to be able to keep a watchful eye on a number of matters. Mr Minister, I would like to ask you clearly: should a mayor, on the basis of this bill, not care about that and can he do so? I really don't think this is a good thing and that this bill perfectly allows me to decide tomorrow to close the mess, even if there's a judicial investigation going on. I think this is not good, even though I am sometimes frustrated by the slowness with which the parquet reacts or by the slowness of the investigation. I think there are a lot of questions to ask about the extent to which this is really about a proposal that benefits safety. Maybe I can also give the response of some of the police forces and police chiefs I've contacted about this. My chief of police has already warned me that our corps does not have the men and the means to act anywhere I think we should act. My chief of police indicates that our people are not trained and do not have the weapons, equipment or training to act in cases where there are terrorist indications. In that case, there will only be one mayor who wants things to be decided. Minister, I would not know how to do that in places where much is being recruited, such as in the station environment and the station buildings, unless you would give me the authority to demand the federal agents and the specialised services to do so. Minister, you are playing with risks in terms of the security of police officers and police forces, especially at the local level. I share the frustration of Mr De Wever and other mayors that we must be able to act more effectively. Minister, we can even agree with the intentions of the legislative proposal, namely that we need to be more efficient, but not in this way. It may be worth considering that a lot of frustration can be removed and that a lot of efficiency will be gained at local level if the mayors, after consulting their chief of police, can address a question to the public prosecutor, with the question being answered within 48 hours. That answer may mean that we have to stop, as the court is in the process of conducting a judicial investigation. The answer may also include approval as it is important for local government to act urgently. In this case, capacity will be provided and a full team will be organised with the DirCos and with the specialised services that can go in. That is also the thrust of the amendment we are tabling. If there are indications of terrorist sites, places where terrorists are or places where people are on the OCAD list or where people are looking for each other to recruit, then I am the first mayor to ask for an efficient method. I believe that the efficient method is that I or my Chief Constable can go to the Attorney General, ensuring that we receive a substantiated response within 48 hours and, as far as I am concerned, prefer to have the capacity and the means to act, without confusing ongoing investigations. We have already learned enough about terrorism, including in the Committee of Inquiry. We have already learned enough that it is about finding connections, looking for links and looking for links between different types of crime. This is a judicial investigation to be conducted under the direction of the federal prosecutor. I am the first in favour of strengthening and strengthening this and being able to activate it on the initiative of a mayor. But don't let security depend on a form of arbitrariness of a mayor who's tired of waiting for the parquet, who wants to fly in everywhere and who wants to give the order to his chief of police, on the basis of this law, to close down some of the establishments. I repeat that this really puts his security people at risk. We therefore ask the government to consider our suggestion, in particular that a mayor who has all the possible indications listed in the bill can explicitly address a question to the public prosecutor, with a guarantee that there will be an answer within 48 hours. If there is no answer, then the mayor should take his own responsibility. I believe this is reasonable. I believe that this will also increase efficiency in terms of the operation of judicial investigations and the public prosecutor's office, and certainly in terms of the flow of information to local police forces. I believe that we can take this step forward without endangering police officers in a large number of police areas, which are not adequately equipped and trained. I would ask you to consider this. I hope the government will support this because it is entirely in the logic of its security policy. We are all aware that improvements are still possible in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u14	Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is in principle no constitutional obstacle to the law allowing an administrative authority, in this case the mayor, to decide on a measure which infringes freedom on the basis of serious evidence of the commission of a criminal offence. I think everyone will agree with that. As mayors, we are used to intervening when we face problems related to public safety or tranquillity. Mr. Demeyer referred earlier to the closure of certain cafes or establishments in the horeca sector. However, where the facts do not give rise to specific disturbances in terms of security or public tranquillity within the meaning of Articles 134 et seq. of the Communal Law, it is necessary to consider whether it is more appropriate to entrust the decision, not to the mayors, but to the judicial authorities in charge of the investigation, prosecution, investigation or judgment of the criminal facts concerned. In doing so, one would only respect the powers and competences of each other: administrative police (in the head of the mayor), judicial police (in the head of the public prosecutor's offices or investigating judges). In fact, there was not much to change, if reference is made to article XV.30 of the Code of Economic Law, which already provides that: "The Public Prosecutor's Office or, if a judicial investigation is initiated, the investigating judge may order the provisional closure of the offender's establishment." This is already at our disposal a series of elements and arguments of a legal nature that allow intervention, either administratively or judicially. In the proposal before us today, we want to go further by entrusting a very specific and, in my view, exorbitant power to the mayors. Every time we talk about terrorism, attacks and legal measures to improve the protection of our citizens, our group is always attentive to checking the solutions that are proposed to us or to proposing solutions for us to move forward in a common sense of protection for our citizens. That is what our colleague Georges Dallemagne did in the Attentats Committee. He also suggested an amendment to entrust the investigating judge, of his own motion, if he is himself concerned because a case is being investigated, or at the request of the Public Prosecutor's Office if the case is not being investigated, with the provisional closure of an institution belonging to an accused person or in which the activities in question take place. In doing so, I find that our colleague Mr Dallemagne has brought about a completely correct and legally valid solution. The investigating judge may, in fact, decide in full knowledge of the case for this particularly serious measure, namely the closure of an institution on the grounds of terrorist offences. At the same time, Mr Minister, one of the objections of the Council of State was to evacuate the principle of proportionality, which must be assessed in order to verify that the closure measure can indeed be decided. The judiciary would thus have assumed its full responsibilities. Unfortunately, the committee did not accept this amendment. My group has therefore tabled another amendment in plenary. I'll come back. You want us to propose that the mayor intervene on the front line in matters as delicate as those relating to terrorist offences. What are you asking this mayor? You ask him - it seems obvious to me - to consult with the judicial authorities. He will be happy to consult with the judicial authorities. Let's get in touch. Interventions may be exchanged. After this consultation, what will the mayor still be holding? It will still be required to hear from the person who is the owner or operator of the establishment in which terrorist activities may flourish or from institutions in which radicalization or terrorism training would take place. I don't know if we can imagine it, but in a situation as delicate as this, going through the hearing of the person whose establishment is intended to be closed, it is no longer to spare any surprise effects. It's giving her time once she's heard. Hearing also means drawing up a report, a report which must be communicated to it to verify that it agrees with what is said. You can imagine that, during the hours or days that follow, anything that is likely to constitute evidence that could be found in the establishment will disappear. In this way, I think there is one aspect to which the committee may not have paid sufficient attention. Indeed, burgermasters, there are of all styles. Some are a little cowboys, others are cautious, others are afraid of everything. Imagine a burmese who hears rumors and quickly conducts an audition. The person is barely a party to the decision to close the institution. He had prior information from the prosecutor's office, but he was not told that the prosecutor's office should give him his consent to the closure. It can therefore decide to close an institution without any training or competence, on the pretext that terrorist offences could be committed there, with its full and sole authority. Imagine the situation, minister, where the prosecutor or an investigating judge is in charge of an investigation and has in the collimator the same institution and the same person who owns or manages it and who is placed under surveillance or spinning and who may be filmed or listened to. The Public Prosecutor's Office or the investigating judge may consider that, for the purposes of the investigation, he will leave the institution open. We will leave it open for a while, in order to obtain information, to indict more perpetrators, because we can see who goes in and out, until we can see flagrant offences and order a search. All these investigative duties could, depending on the personality of a mayor or the way he appreciates things, fall completely into the water, prove totally useless and thus make an investigation lose the efficiency she was seeking. We must appreciate what is being proposed to us in the light of this kind of thinking. In addition, Mr.Minister, Mr. Bonte has referred to this, and a mayor is being asked to take on a responsibility that is not within his competence, but that of the judicial authorities. The latter, when they decide to close an establishment, are protected by some form of immunity. The Public Prosecutor's Office and the investigating judge are not personally responsible for their actions, either criminally or civilly. Tomorrow, a mayor who will close on the basis of false information or insufficiently substantiated information, may find himself in front of an owner or operator who will challenge his decision before the Council of State or a civil court, in order to obtain damages or even a criminal court to obtain a conviction. The mayor will be alone in this situation, as a natural person, not as a communal administration. It's going too far! If the Minister of Justice were with us tonight, I would tell him that with this type of legislation, what we are doing is still to unload federal obligations on the municipalities. Without considering this on the same footing, I can recall that we have already been asked to sanction parking, incivilities, because justice no longer has the means of personnel or equipment to prosecute these offences. Tomorrow, we're going to ask a mayor, in the context of terrorist offences, to shut down establishments without any other information than the ones we'd like to give him. In my view, it would be, in the head of the federal authorities, no longer to play their role in protecting citizens, in terms of security, Mr. Minister of the Interior, or in terms of the effectiveness of justice, Mr. Minister of Justice. In the face of a text like this, many mayors – there are some in this assembly and there are others – ask themselves a lot of questions. Yeah, maybe we should try to find solutions. In commission, the cdH tried to work with you. I spoke about the amendment. This one was not accepted. Today, I heard Mr Ducarme refer to it, but he left the Chamber. He said that it was never just a text by Mrs Matz, a member of the CDH, voted unanimously by our House some time ago on trafficking in human beings. Why would it not be the same today with regard to terrorist offences, he asked. These situations and acts of a fundamentally and totally different nature cannot be placed on an equal footing, if only through the involvement of networks or the international involvement of terrorism. They are also of a different nature, Mr Minister of the Interior, because in the field of terrorism we have a federal prosecutor's office and specialized investigating judges. This is not the case with regard to trafficking in human beings to date. It is therefore not possible to compare the two texts. By the way, I would point out that Mrs Matz's text called for the mayor's decision to be confirmed by the municipal council. In the text tabled here, it is requested that this decision be confirmed by the College. This does not seem logical to me, even if, on a regular basis, a mayor's police orders are to be ratified by the municipal council which follows the date on which they were taken. What you want to do here, if you're followed, is a personal responsibility of the mayors. If it is a full responsibility, let them assume it; in this case, they should not be asked to return three days or a month later to their peers to have their decision confirmed, or possibly, to get undressed! Can you imagine the situation we will find ourselves in with regard to terrorism? We must take full account of the texts that are put to us for the vote. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as in these matters, we always wish to be attentive and positive, as I said to you two weeks ago in plenary, we tabled an amendment for which we sought the opinion of the Council of State. This amendment would have to be considered, since you want to involve the mayors, and since it can be admitted that a mayor is supposed to know his population, because he plays on proximity. It may indeed, in consultation with the Public Prosecutor's Office, exchange information. It may be useful for the public prosecutor to know the information that the mayor can give him, just as it is essential for a mayor to know the information that a public prosecutor can give him, while knowing that it is also possible, sometimes, to undermine the secrecy of the investigation. If we really want to give the mayors something, the proposal we are making is not so far from the FDF amendment. De DéFI, excuse me, Mr. Maingain! You have to live with your time!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u15	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u16	I totally agree. Mea culpa, Mr. Cheron. If you really want to involve the mayor, which can make sense and which one can understand, then it is indicated in the legislation that it is the agreement of the judicial authorities that the mayor takes the decision. We have tabled an amendment to the effect that we ask you to vote with us. At that time, I think we have the guarantee and legal certainty that can accompany our work. If, of course, colleagues follow us on this path, we will have no difficulty supporting the text of the majority. If that were not the case, we would not be able to support the text and we will abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u17	Mr President, many arguments have already been made. If I can sum up my thinking, this bill is a powerless matamore effect. This is part of the many publicity effects which suggest that the weapon needed to combat terrorism has been found and when, in a few years' time, the number of establishments closed by the mayors will be assessed, under this law, it will be peanuts! I have asked that we take stock of the number of establishments closed by the mayors in the fight against trafficking in human beings, which is just as marginal. And for good reason! These are appearance effects! First, there is nothing comparable in the fight against terrorism, with its international dimension, the aspects of confidentiality and efficiency that it requires, and the closure of an establishment because of suspicion of drug trafficking. These are two very different phenomena. It was recalled that at the time, the Council of State had not given an opinion on what had been the adaptation of the new communal law in 2011. Here, the Council of State has given an opinion, which is insane and devastating from a legal point of view. By way of an amendment, I have highlighted the fact that a fanfaren mayor, under the pressure of his local public opinion, because he receives testimony, will tell the prosecution that he hears it, but that he ignores his opinion because he considers that he must give immediate satisfaction to his people who, without it, will consider it ineffective, will perhaps put a whole work of judicial investigation into it! This is to have the personal, immediate and random satisfaction of saying that he will have closed a facility that has serious clues! And I'm not talking about the consequences if his judgment is wrong! The damage it has brought to the reputation and reputation of the managers of the establishment is clearly not part of the authors' thinking! I have tabled a fairly logical amendment. I say: if this is an express request of the prosecutor's office to the mayor, because, in its strategy, the prosecutor's office considers that an administrative police measure of the mayor could be effective. There will then be guarantees that the mayor will not threaten the effectiveness of the judicial investigation work. So yes, under these conditions, this administrative police measure can be considered. Once again, it is the right balance between safety and effectiveness. But you don't make that choice. It is an announcement effect, with no real scope, without consultation with the judicial authorities to seek a procedure. The opinion of the College of Attorneys General you have is inconsistent. The concertation is not binding on you, Mr. Ducrame. The mayor is not bound. The opinion is not binding. You didn't hear the arguments. I ask you to have the reason to preserve the effectiveness of the judicial investigation if the prosecutor's office vetoes it. Your proposal does not allow the prosecution to veto it. However, this is essential if the fight against terrorism is to be effective. The Federal Prosecutor's Office still has the best possible analysis of the reality of a counter-terrorism investigation, not the mayor. I would also like to point out that in many areas of the police, chiefs of corps complain that they do not receive useful information from the federal police, specialized in the fight against terrorism. Maybe that's reasonable. Better yet, some chiefs of corps tell their mayor that, since there is a judicial dimension, they should not communicate the information to the administrative authority. And rightfully! Indeed, the separation is strict. The mayor, in the exercise of his powers of administrative police, cannot know the elements which would possibly justify the search for an offence and the criminal prosecution. It's totally excluded. The mayor must be kept separately in his powers of administrative police from the work of the investigation by the prosecutor's office. So what is more reasonable than to favour the judicial investigation, which is the most effective in the fight against terrorism, against the illusion of a baseless power of a few mayors who will try to boast of results that they will not even have?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u18	Mr President, I would like to speak for a second time in the debate after hearing the excellent speeches that followed my speech. I would like to make three points. First of all, without revealing the secret of the closed session of the Attentats Committee, I would like to tell you that the remarks made here are consistent with what we have heard. Then it is clear that we often receive indications through the heads of bodies. When we want to intervene in a particular situation, we are told that this is not possible, because the prosecutor's office asks not to move - without explaining why or how. You then understand that an investigation is under way. In this case, what does the mayor do? He's not moving. The judicial investigation takes precedence over administrative action. Finally, and I return to my Liège file, I was only able to intervene at the time when the judicial police indicated it and with the support of the Public Prosecutor's Office. That is why I would like to make it clear solemnly that the objective is shared, but that there are sufficient indications, obstacles and ways of improving this text so that we can quickly get back to the table and improve the right text. Otherwise, we're going to miss targets and maybe we're going to install something worse than what's in place right now. Mr Ducrame, I solemnly request that the work be given back to the profession. You understand that the statements made here do not convey any political intention. As I know you are interested in this text, I solemnly ask you to be able to work on it a little further and perhaps even to reverse the proposal. Several mayors spoke today. Maybe we should have done it sooner. In any case, I urge you, let's still work on the text!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u19	Mr President, a number of questions have been asked to the government. It's a bill, so it's coming from Parliament. Who are we, the government, to stop that? We support the proposal before us, but I would like to make a number of comments. First of all, the consultation of the public prosecutor's offices is provided for in the text. It is true that there is no decision of the prosecutor's office, but what is the mayor who heard that the prosecutor's office was considering an investigation in that case? Mr Demeyer, in that case, after consulting the prosecution and if you hear anything going on there, will you intervene on this establishment? Will you stand up to the court? Perhaps the big difference between the majority and the opposition is that we start from an empowerment of the mayors, from a certain confidence in the mayors and in their sense of responsibility. That's the basis of this bill. I come to a second element, the security of the policemen. You are well aware, Mr Bonte, that the DSU is available to local authorities and that POSA is available for difficult tasks. You are well aware that corps that are faced with such matters can use their people's training and armament. The parallelism with human trafficking is justified. Human trafficking is also not about pussy; it is also a serious form of crime. I do see the problem that when action is required, all safety equipment must be taken, but these are available and can be called upon. The last thing I want is to unnecessarily endanger the policemen.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u20	Minister, I have said that my party has always worked throughout the entire security debate so far if we are convinced that it will improve the efficiency of security policy. You ask me if I will act on trafficking in human beings, which I have already had to do. Then one indeed goes to the parquet and follows the parquet. But that's not the guarantee that's in here, this is not the guarantee that the Council of State is talking about. One has to consult beforehand. The Council of State says that one should pay attention to the secret of the investigation. I invite you to explain in detail what speed or slowness, or with no or incomplete information, our police services are at work. Read the report of the P Committee on your table. We talked about it yesterday. One of the bottlenecks is that the flow of judicial information from federal police to local police is slow, incomplete or non-existent. Saying that this offers the guarantee to be able to act is completely ignored. However, I do agree with your philosophy, namely that one should be able to claim the court order in order to be informed within 48 hours. That is exactly what our amendment says, and then we are a step further. Secondly, read the other report from the P Committee. You know that the police may be willing to provide training, training and equipment in a number of places, but they are not able to do so today. In terrorist investigations, people do not know what is behind the gates and facades. We must be able to assess this sufficiently and to strengthen it and therefore be fully informed. Thirdly, something you have already experienced is that intervention by the police is destroying or disrupting judicial investigations. That is what is at risk here. The key is therefore the ability to mobilise, as mayor, the judicial authorities to provide full information to the police services, including whether or not it is useful and desirable to act. According to the present bill, the mayor is still free to act. Whether you like it or not, you put police officers at risk. Take it from me.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u21	Mr President, I will be brief, but since several mayors have spoken in this debate, I would like to point out that the mayor must always act as an administrative authority and that he is often alone in the face of his responsibilities. It is, of course, acting on the basis of serious evidence, whether it is trafficking in human beings or drug trafficking. All decisions are made on the basis of substantiated reports, on the basis of investigations carried out. In any case, it is the experience of all the mayors represented here. There were several possibilities for action. We have chosen the administrative route. Mr. Demeyer spoke about his experience. I can also say that when I was forced to close several places where there was radicalism, I did so, in fact, by referring to the legislation on urban planning permits and fire safety. It is necessary to be clear and to be able to refer to possible radicalizations in places. But every time – and I did this for a mosque in Molenbeek-Saint-Jean – there must be prior consultation with the judicial authorities. Any mayor who respects himself will, in my opinion, necessarily act in concert with the latter, as well as with the chief of corps and the local police authorities. In conclusion, the instrument proposed to us tonight seems to me to be interesting in the fight against terrorism.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u22	Mr President, Mr Schepmans, you are indirectly bringing water to my mill, since you are assuming that no mayor will of course run counter to the information that the judicial authorities will give him and that it is unimaginable that a mayor who would not be "normal" would run counter to information that he would have obtained from the prosecutor's office. Can you answer, today, from all the mayors of the Kingdom in relation to what you have just said? If that is the case, why not just write it down by stating that this intervention by the mayor will be carried out in agreement with the judicial authorities? Indeed, in this way, you would have solved the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u23	Mrs Schepmans tries to tell us that, in short, the closure of a horeca establishment for night-time noise is similar to the closure of an establishment for terrorist threat and that what is done so spontaneously and so easily in the context of the closure of a horeca establishment for night-time noise or any other act of prevention can obviously be done in the fight against terrorism. A little serious! The jurisprudence of the Council of State requires that before you take an administrative police action, you summon the person in question. Better yet, you have an obligation to do a pre-hearing. The jurisprudential obligation! Even better, you must first communicate to him all the elements that form the basis of the hearing requirement! And so, we're going to communicate to the person we suspect and for whom we would have serious indications of a terrorist threat, which we've collected through the police. If you have a police report, you must even attach it to the summons to the hearing. The person will be told: "I am transmitting to you the elements that I have under my police powers. Of course, I may have consulted the prosecutor's office." It can sometimes be seen that the prosecutor's office is not reacting, unfortunately. Or even if the prosecutor called the mayor to caution, nothing excludes the case of a local mayor who, as the elections approached, thinks he is doing a good political blow to show that he has... courage! [[Laughs]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u24	What did you understand? I'm sorry, but I still need to know what I'm thinking. I'm not used to letting myself go to trivialities! [[Laughs]] This mayor will go and communicate to someone who may be the subject of surveillance or observation what even the prosecutor's office has not told him! The Public Prosecutor's Office will never tell a mayor what specific measures are being implemented in the investigation. Never and for cause! All of this is going to be handed over to the interested ones, saying: "Come and see me! I'll hear you because there's a terrorist threat in your facility. Come and see me!" But at last, ma'am, it's such a laugh! It's such an illusion that you make people believe. This has nothing to do with the usual administrative police measures of a mayor. This has absolutely nothing to do with it! It is an announcement that will be without tomorrow, and I hope so in the interest of the effectiveness of the fight against terrorism!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u25	Mr President, on the occasion of this debate, many mayors speak. I understand that the difficulties which Mr Maingain faces are different from those which I encounter in my commune. He's got problems with night noise. I can assure you that I have problems that are significantly more serious than those you mentioned. And when we talk about drug trafficking, Mr. Maingain, extremely serious situations may exist in certain places in the territory of the communes. Maybe you're less informed than I am. In any case, I can assure you that with the police it works and that the results we have achieved are very concrete and positive. So don't reduce the role of the mayor, saying that he will only take care of night noise! It's limiting his responsibilities. Everyone takes them. I take mine at my level and I can assure you that when you close an establishment, you shut it down. Then the person concerned is summoned to be heard. But in the meantime, the establishment is not open. Often, in any case in Molenbeek, I can assure you that individuals do not come to be heard. They do not present themselves, because they are well aware of their responsibilities in situations. And when they are heard, there is necessarily a confrontation which then makes it possible to make an order, an order on the basis of obvious evidence, facts which are relayed in particular by the police.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u26	Mrs Schepmans, the emotion with which you describe the problems is a credit to you, but now you need to make the connection with the present draft law. If you see in your municipality very serious problems of drug punishment, with dangerous components, as you describe them, then you should ask yourself whether this bill will not pass your purpose if it is used. I'm assuming you want to wipe out Molenbeek's drug treatment with carrots and branches. For such phenomena one contact the parquet. Now, in connection with the drugs problem, we are often told that long-term research is needed to get to the source. Mrs Schepmans, this bill allows you perfectly, after you would have called the courthouse, from which you would not have received an answer, which is often the case, for example, to close the case out of electoral or other considerations, with the result that the whole judicial investigation has been destroyed. I will come back to the question I asked earlier, but I have not received an answer to it. What kind of establishments are we talking about here? Is it about cafes, hotels or restaurants, is it about mosques, is it about schools, is it about businesses, is it about train stations or metro stations? We need to know what we're going to vote on here.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u27	I refer to the regulation on trafficking in human beings.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u28	No, read the Council of State. The Council of State rightly makes the distinction with trafficking in human beings clear, because this is about law enforcement after consultation of the public prosecutor. The Council of State points out that terrorism is another form of crime which is best held in judicial hands. That is the essential distinction I want to make. So I ask the question again, Minister. Is it about train stations, is it about subways, is it about mosques, is it about churches, is it about schools? I want to know. It is, after all, an ambition to close down establishments where people with a terrorist background or a terrorist judgment are. Nobody asks what happens if the mayor doesn't close it. My third question is addressed to the Minister of Justice. I am really glad that you are back, Minister, because you are also at the heart of the debate. TV is cinema; here it is about safety! One of the comments of the Council of State is that we share this concern that a mayor's own action, in accordance with the proposed legal provisions, may be particularly detrimental to judicial investigations, which are often longer and are much more sustainable, all the more so because of the fundamentally inadequate exchange of information between judicial services and police services, as stated in a report by the OCAD today. You are therefore risking making judicial investigations at the assembly line. I asked the chairman of the committee to hear you on this matter in committee. I couldn't. I also asked if the federal prosecutor could give his opinion on this. I couldn't do that either. So I really believe that the legislative proposal, with the best of intentions, can cause the greatest damage in security policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u29	One can make anything a caricature. The only parallel I wanted to draw is the one with the wording for trafficking in human beings and drug trafficking, because it is the same. In this context one can ask whether it is about mosques, train stations or grocery stores. The mayor is well placed to evaluate when to act and whether to ask for support. You can make anything a caricature, but at the time you approved the same text for another crime phenomenon.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u30	If you are referring to caricatures, I will read out what the Council of State writes about it: "In contrast to the crimes which are part of the existing Article 134quinquies "trafficking in human beings, trafficking in human beings and access to the territory, residence, establishment and removal of aliens," the crimes that the present bill seeks to add, namely terrorist offences, do not have a direct link with the powers of the administrative authorities." The Council of State notes that this is a category of offences entrusted to the federal prosecutor under Article 47d of the Code of Criminal Procedure. That is also correct: it is the federal prosecutor, who is responsible for this. So you want to create 308 or more than 500 federal prosecutors without us getting the information, without the police being equipped to do so? That's what your bill does! Again, the biggest screw-up of this could be the regular policeman.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u31	I cannot remain unanswered after what I have heard, particularly from Mrs Schepmans. Madam, when we have to audition a renter for a closure, even if he does not appear, he will have been summoned on the basis of a very precise and detailed text. So, even if he doesn't come, he's been warned of what we know about him. Secondly, in order for our decision not to be broken by the Council of State, we must have seven very precise conditions. And, listening to you, I think that might be a problem. Thirdly, with regard to drug trafficking, which you are talking about, it is the same thing. We know how this is done with the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office and the Federal Police: a very large number of elements must be brought together for drug trafficking to be stopped, for the police to intervene and for justice to be concerned. Otherwise, the investigation is null and void. We are moving here towards legal uncertainty that will be worse than the situation we are currently experiencing. You called Mr. Maingain. I can understand that he's not in the same situation as you, so I'm going to talk to you about Liège. This may be a little closer to your situation. I always wonder why the few colleagues, who are in the same situation as I have known, to gather information from the judiciary on judgements taken for terrorist acts against persons attending such mosques, have not applied the case law. However, it is well known nationally and internationally. However, this case law is objective. It's not a rumor, it's a res judicata decision. It then allows to object to a decision and to close a mosque in a commune in the capital, such mosque in Flanders or a mosque in Wallonia. Why didn't we? I wonder. I think it's because colleagues think it's risky. And I can understand them, as I can understand the magistrates who, suddenly, can think that if responsibility can be taken by the mayors, it is so much better! Everyone's scared. Magistrates can be afraid too. Finally, will the same procedure be repeated for a problematic establishment every three months? Proportionality requires first closing three months to prevent the Council of State from breaking the decision. And then, the second time, six months. And we'll do it again. That's not going to work. It is necessary to be able to make a decision on objective criteria, defined by a federal authority, and to have effect over time. I am very much under pressure, and I am even more so after the debate than before.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u32	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u33	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1473/9) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1473/9) The title was changed by the Committee to "draft law inserting an article 134septies into the New Municipal Act in order to allow the Mayor to close down the establishments suspected of terrorist activity." The title has been amended by the commission to "proposal for a law inserting an article 134sepies into the New Communal Law in order to allow the mayor to close establishments suspected of harbouring terrorist activities". The bill has 2 articles. The bill has two articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u34	****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the Rule that has been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u35	Sustained: the vote on the amendments and Article 2.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u36	Adopted: Article 1. Adopted: Article 1. ******
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u37	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 2050: Valerie Van Peel, Sarah Smeyers, Karolien Grosemans, Koen Metsu, Peter Buysrogge - 1687: Valerie Van Peel, Sarah Smeyers, Karolien Grosemans.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u38	The general discussion has resumed. The general discussion was resumed. Mr Bonte spoke. He may continue his statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u39	Mr. Secretary, it's hopeless. It's hopeless for a minister to walk out of a parliament during a debate on security to get on TV. It is hopeless that we will be voting on a proposal that is crucial in terms of security policy, namely the role of the mayor in relation to the judicial authorities, without the Minister of Justice saying a word. I think there's history here. What is certainly hopeless is that we are seeing a form of compromise here, whereby the N-VA should get a bill of professional secrecy and the MR should get one around the mayors and their role. That has to pass, while many questions remain open, while several calls have been made for the people of the federal judicial authorities to be heard, while several times they have been asked to hear the ministers, with the deep conviction that this is a serious risk to security policy. Not to gain honour, as with trophies and for which they should serve, namely to profile, but from the deep conviction that one thinks twice before one approves it. It is very frustrating to note that this must be done without the opinion, without the opinion, without the information of the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u40	Mr Bonte, Mrs Van Cauter is asking for the floor for an interruption.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u41	Mr Bonte, it is equally frustrating to be accused over and over again of a cow trade, of not doing any serious work in the Committee on Terrorism, while we have systematically discussed a number of proposals very thoroughly. I remember that in the substantive criminal law preparatory acts to terrorism under a bill dealt with in committee, have now been criminalised. I have read in the media that the adoption of the proposal by this Parliament, not by your group, Mr Bonte, has prevented a number of attacks today. I also noted that even when it came to financing terrorism, terrorist offences and terrorists, your group did not have the courage to vote in favour. No cow business is being conducted today; however, a number of legislative proposals are being discussed in detail in order of order. This bill, on which we will resume the discussion this evening, has also been discussed very thoroughly in committee. The Minister, and you know that it is very good to discuss legislative proposals, as usual, even when your group was part of the government, represented by his cabinet. Here too, there has been a very thorough answer to all the arguments and questions you have put. I would like to comment on this because you have just raised a number of questions about what is currently going on, in particular the duty to speak for employees of social institutions. If I have understood you correctly, you have no difficulty in communicating administrative data if requested. You think this is perfectly legitimate. If I have understood you correctly, your group can approve this part of the legislative proposal. On the other hand, you wonder how an OCMW employee or social security institution can decide whether or not a particular fact is an indication of a crime to be reported. The Minister referred earlier to Rule 29, which applies today to all officials. If officials become aware of a completed crime, they are obliged to report it. This duty applies not only to civil servants but to every citizen, in accordance with Article 30. Mr Bonte, we are right to devote a great deal of time to the fight against terrorism in this House. Many speakers have said that once the terrorist leaves his home for the purpose of an attack, every intervention is late and, in any case, victims are made. It is therefore very important, particularly in the case of terrorism, to be able to punish preparatory actions and intervene very early in the chain. Therefore, it is also important to gather information so that an employee, in the event of a crime, is in a position and is also expected to report it. Mr Bonte, like you, we know that not every employee of an OCMW, for example, knows the full Code of Material Criminal Law. The same applies to Article 29. Not every employee knows what to do with 100% certainty. I may be able to give you some examples that you are also not sure you are dealing with a crime or not. What are they doing? One makes a judgment to the best of his ability and if one is in that possibility, one is supposed to report a completed crime. Today, Mrs Van Peel's proposal goes a step further. She says if there's any evidence of a terrorist crime. Why clues? Because it is important to be able to intervene very early in the chain and to stop preparing for an attack very quickly. If we allow ourselves to be committed, then there is a state-of-the-art danger and the citizens of that country are put at risk. That is why it is expected, Mr Bonte, even if there are indications, that these employees are effectively reporting. Since "instructions" are not always read in the same way, and because it cannot be clear to every employee of a social institution that one is dealing with the designation of a crime, there is no sanction for this obligation. I believe that this is a good thing. The same difficulties are encountered in applying Articles 29 and 30 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. However, this works in practice. We shouldn't turn the tables. It is those who prepare and commit a terrorist attack that we must prosecute. We must not persecute those who feel the urge to speak in order to protect our society and its citizens. We must give them the right to speak, we must give them the opportunity to report that there are indications of a terrorist offence. And this as soon as possible, to avoid worse.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u42	Mr. Bonte will answer, but what you say is incorrect. We'll have the debate in the Terrorist Attacks Committee. On the one hand, however, there is an over-judicialisation which has already caused problems in Belgium, while on the other hand, the intelligence services are prevented from obtaining indications to control the situation. What you have just said runs counter to what we see in the Terrorist Attacks Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u43	Mrs. Onkelinx, I think you've misrepresented the facts. It has never been said that the inclusion of preparatory acts or certain qualifications in substantive criminal law gives rise to an overload and the inefficient prosecution of, among other things, terrorist offences. The following has been said. Rapid reporting of information indicating a crime can prevent the strategy of criminal investigation from being brought to an end in an efficient way. That is what has been said in the committee about the terrorist attacks. Apparently we have another reading of the facts.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u44	Mr President, when there is a crime, a crime that is known, we must denounce it. We've only been saying it since the beginning of this evening. No problem! The same is true when one can stop a start of execution. But now you're going a lot further. You're criminalizing preparatory acts. That was voted on. And now you're talking about denunciation of serious evidence of a possible pre-trial act that is itself criminalized. That's the problem! It is because you have an increasingly wide field which, beyond what has been said about the importance of professional secrecy, will pose a clear problem to all those involved, a major enforcement problem and put in particular social workers in major difficulties of interpretation of what they can or should not do.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u45	Mrs Van Cauter, you say in your first sentences that we have been able to discuss and question everything on the substance. Together with other colleagues, I have already said it several times, every meeting, to know the government's opinion, to obtain the presence of the ministers. I am learning today, with Minister Borsus' speech, that he has formally asked, on paper, to be present at the meeting in committee, but we have never been able to see him. Mr President, I really want you to look at this at the level of the Bureau, with the Rules of Procedure in hand. If MEPs ask for the Minister's presence, if the Minister says he wants to be present in writing, what can prevent this discussion between MEPs and the government? Mr Van Biesen called for a majority. Read the Rules of Procedure, Mr Van Biesen. You've been here longer than I have. A minister always has the right to express his opinion when dealing with a bill and a Member of Parliament always has the right to ask the government, but it could not. We have not seen the Minister of Justice, we have not seen the Minister of the Interior, we have not seen Minister Borsus, despite our pressing and the fact that Minister Borsus says he wanted to be present. I want to remain calm, but I really ask that the rules of the game be made clear at the level of the Bureau: do we really need a majority or not, if the Minister says he wants to come? Your colleague said that it was actually no longer worth discussing, that it is obvious that everyone is in favour of this. I would like to come back to the information problem. I just said it before you left. I also told the Minister of the Interior. There is a report on your table, Minister, which shows the obstacles to the transfer of information from the federal police to the local police, from the judicial police to the federal police. I hear Mrs Van Cauter refers to the discussions in the Committee of Inquiry. At least what's happening here is to try to pass on a bunch of information to the parish. The only thing I find out is that there's quite a bit of chaos in this information business. There's a lot of chaos. Mrs. Van Cauter, you follow justice better than I do. We are still seeing people from Vilvoorde convicted of terrorism and imprisoned. Only we don't know. The judgment follows by fax if requested only weeks later. However, we are expected to follow everything closely. I would just like to point out the chaos that exists in the information system. How is it possible that a person is sentenced to a certain number of years in prison, but that the chief of police is only aware of this? How is it possible that someone may or may not be released temporarily, without his release being known? For the record, this is about someone convicted of terrorism. A great deal remains to be done in the field of information management. That will also come out when the Committee of Inquiry will write its report. Here, however, we want to organize all kinds of additional data, and my assessment will also be that a lot of useless data will have to be processed. After all, every information, every phone and every note will have to be investigated by the parquet or by the local police. I don't know how they'll do all that. However, validation must always be carried out. I invite you to look into this famous so-called dynamic database to see how much information the police, such as Vilvoorde and others, have in it every day. Take a look at what was recorded in that dynamic database today. I invite you to take a good look at that. Not even all FTFs are included with all the formal data. So that has to be looked at. In other words, I fear that chaos will also be created in the information system, apart from the other reservations I have. Mrs Van Cauter, we remember well, I did not follow the work of the Committee of Inquiry that, when the whole world was looking to our shame, Abdeslam, the most wanted terrorist, we could not find in four months' time. We couldn't find him.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u46	Demagoog.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u47	Demagoog, Mr. Van Rompuy? Why? I do know that in the Molenbeek police station there were very crucial data that had been confiscated for a very long time, which could lead to the address where Abdeslam was staying.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u48	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u49	Wait for the investigation of the Committee of Inquiry. The crucial data remained there because they did not have capacity, did not have the necessary attention. Everyone has forgotten that there were cell phones, laptops and sticks, but afterwards they were read out. We will find out from the investigation. All I do know, Mr Van Rompuy, is that Abdeslam was arrested after the pizza delivery man told the police where he was. Just like Abrini at some point...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u50	We must let the Committee of Inquiry do its job. It does not make much sense to start or repeat this discussion here.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u51	I think it makes sense. I would like to point out that well-organised information is crucial and that the present legislative proposal creates chaos throughout the information system. There are two things that pose a major threat. The first concerns the quality of aid. It is not only about OCMW employees, but also about other employees. I believe that relevant information will no longer be communicated over the table to the aid workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u52	Mr Bonte, we agree on one point: the flow of information is very important. In the past, there have been reports in which a lack of information flow has indeed been identified. So far, we're in agreement. The present proposal can add information and you say that processing that information will create chaos. In fact, you contradict yourself. On the one hand, you are talking about lack of information and, on the other hand, you are saying that information will cause chaos.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u53	Mr Degroote, you challenge me to repeat my speech just now. I have repeatedly said that I am absolutely asking for all the relevant information that can lead to the fight against terrorist offences to be shared. I agree with that. But I added at the same time that it must be clear from whom that information must come. People talk about OCMW presidents here all the time. The list of institutions is also about annual holidays, pension services, childcare services, CWFs and so on. It must therefore be clear who should do what, from whom one can expect what. However, it needs to be much clearer where that information needs to be checked and checked in order to be useful for security policy. Today, I am pleased to note that the government and the Minister of Justice as author is issuing a letter saying that such information can best be shared with the judicial and police authorities in the Local Integrated Security Cells as soon as possible. That is the plea I made earlier and I wanted to repeat it here. But don't expect those 60, 70 or 80 000 people to call the parquet. I don't know how many, because no one will answer the question about who's going to call the parquet. That's the organization of chaos. If we have learned one thing now, it is that we are best placed in order in the information system, between all those police services, judicial services and social services. There's an architecture for that. Then use it. You want, of course, to be the symbol of so-called responsive services with a duty without penalty. What that may mean is another mystery. However, I understand that the symbol is much more important than the content.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u54	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that several arguments have already been exchanged during the discussion, but I think, as several colleagues have said, that this is an important text. Also important was the discussion we had in the Committee on the Fight against Terrorism. Our group has been repeating for a long time and on many occasions that it considers the fight against terrorism as a political priority; a targeted, effective fight that respects the fragile balance between greater security and respect for our individual freedoms. So this text is really important because it touches on visions of society that we consider fundamental because it concerns visions of different societies and on which I will return. That is what makes this text important. The debate has been lengthy. Ms Van Peel recalled that the first text was discussed in April 2016. This first text was very different from the one we are discussing today; this element has not yet been mentioned. He had responded to an appeal by the Attorney General in September 2015 and was talking about a strengthened collaboration between the CPAS and the judicial authorities, because CPAS reportedly caused judicial obstruction, as was recalled. In principle, stronger provisions and mechanisms for better collaboration and information flow between justice and CPAS could be advanced and, where appropriate, compromises, something that has never been attempted. This first text dealt with the passive obligation to inform, at the request of justice. CPAS must lift their professional secrecy in order to respond to specific requests. This first text has been harshly judged by the Council of State, and I will not recall all the reasons. A second text was tabled in September 2016. That's the one we're talking about tonight. It differs from the first on two important points. All social security institutions are now targeted. The first text referred only to CPAS. However, the second point is for us the most fundamental in the whole discussion. What has been added is the introduction of the obligation of active and pro-active information for all social workers. It is really at this level that, in the eyes of environmentalists, we really switch to another vision of society. This poses a real and fundamental problem to us, beyond the legal problems that have been pointed out, concerning the type of society in which we want to evolve. I would also like briefly to return to all the actors on the ground who have mobilized around these debates. As other speakers have said, such a societal debate has mobilized our citizens, and in particular those who feel they are being targeted, i.e. the social workers, the staff of all the CPAS, the Walloon, Brussels and Flemish federations of CPAS, the Union of Secretaries of CPAS of the nineteen Brussels municipalities, a series of schools of social workers, students who will be social workers tomorrow and who rise up against this measure, the Network for Combating Poverty, the trade unions, the academic world, and not just the ULB's rector who had written a white card. Other high academic authorities have stood up against this text, and in particular against this provision of the active obligation. We have not had hearings in the Committee on the Fight against Terrorism. We had an in-depth discussion, but the hearings were not possible, because you refused them. Of course, we've had written opinions, but nothing or almost anyone has moved you, or even eyebrows. This is quite regrettable, especially since it is really a particular provision which poses a fundamental problem in relation to a vision of society. We could have been more sensitive to this unanimous demand on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u55	This is not just from this part of the country, from this type of CPAS. No, this request to be heard was entirely unanimous. Even today, there has been a mobilization, as in the weeks and months before. It is regrettable that we cannot listen, audition, discuss and respond. It is not a question of fully agreeing – I put myself in the shoes of the majority. But at least listen, pay some attention to these claims. That was not the case. In the third part of my presentation, I turn to our more specific remarks on the provisions before us. The first, which has already been extensively commented on, relates to the passive obligation. In principle, we were ready to move forward on that. We are in favour of a better flow of information. We are for a better collaboration between justice and CPAS. There must be no doubt about this. Even if we would have liked to review some of the provisions of the text, we were really ready to discuss and move forward on that point. The second part of the text deals with the active obligation: the obligation for civil servants, social workers, to proactively communicate to the authorities any information that may constitute a serious indication of a terrorist offence. It is written in this way in the text. I will develop the main fears for the future and difficulties in principle that we have on this measure. First of all, its scope is extremely broad and is defined too vaguely, as the Council of State says. Indeed, how can gravity be identified? How to put the cursor on the serious index? When does a clue become serious? These are questions that we have asked in committee and that the CPAS federations also ask themselves. Is there not finally a risk of full disclosures as a precautionary principle? The Council of State also notes the problem of the lack of proportionality, i.e. that offences of all kinds are treated in the same way. No difference is made between the potential serious and less serious "indices" that would be reported. The second point which was also widely commented on in the Committee on the Fight against Terrorism is that it concerns all functions within the CPAS. We joked a lot, reminding that it would concern the gardener and the cook. But it's true!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u56	I understand that some will be subject to professional secrecy and others will not. But this means that the same treatment will be reserved for the director, social workers, and all employees within CPAS and social security institutes. We could still have imagined a certain differentiation between the different functions, between the different levels of responsibility. The question was raised as to what type of sanction was involved. The criminal penalty has been withdrawn, but one can imagine that if a public servant commits a fault, he or she may be punished by his or her hierarchy. All this has not been specified. This brings me to the last fundamental point concerning the future of the daily lives of social workers and staff of CPAS and other social security institutions. With this text, they are really being asked to fulfil a role that is not theirs, namely that of the police inspector. Their behaviour towards their users, their hierarchy will have to change completely. What about the pressure? We have all had contacts – at least I did – with workers, CPAS workers who feel that this text is going to put enormous pressure on their shoulders. Indeed, they will have to manage all these new elements. Moreover, there is the fear of a penalty that is ultimately unclear, which further reinforces the fear, the stress they will feel in the weeks to come, the months to come, when the law will be enforced. Beyond all these reasons, I would like to point out that, in its opinion on this second text, the Council of State called for a review of the proposals relating to the active obligation, which has been done for some of them. I am thinking in particular of medical confidentiality. It's a lesser evil. For the rest, the whole remains as it is. The situation therefore remains problematic with regard to all legal issues. More fundamentally – and I will end with that – this is really a vision of society for us that is carried by the government. These are political choices that are ultimately made here, which, in our view, are particularly problematic. Public servants, social workers, are being asked to act as members of the federal police. But what is the next step? We're setting up a system here. In the future, will other officials be asked to play their part in the fight against terrorism? Yes, the fight against terrorism is a top priority. But it is not by asking some of our officials to play a role that is not theirs that we are going to answer. The second point, which is fundamental to the vision of society that I describe, is the undermining of professional secrecy. Here, clearly, by attacking professional secrecy, the system of functioning of our social security and social security institutions is being attacked. I am thinking in particular of CPAS, because we know how fundamental trust between the social assistant and CPAS users is, as several CPAS presidents have expressed. By undermining this professional secrecy, by forcing workers to communicate proactively, we necessarily harm their work, which is essential for our society. Another point that remains extremely problematic in this vision is to point the finger at the users of CPAS and social security institutes, as being more likely than others of our fellow citizens to be attracted to the sirens of hatred of terrorism. We point to a certain category of our fellow citizens and this only strengthens the potential divisions within our society. It is precisely in the fight against terrorism that we must avoid.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u57	The text would cover certain categories of citizens. What do you mean by that?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u58	I hear that we are dealing specifically here with the users of CPAS, the most modest people in our society. It is well known that here, what we are particularly aiming at, are these categories. The bill came with a request regarding the alleged obstruction of justice by some CPAS. It is well known that the intention comes from this problem. It is the CPAS that are targeted at the base. This has indeed been extended at the request of the Council of State, but the question arises as to why these categories are systematically targeted. In this text, it is these people who are targeted: the users of the CPAS. The relationship between social workers and CPAS users is being undermined. In our view, this is one of the major problems with the lifting of professional secrecy in the context of this text and therefore in the context of the fight against terrorism.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u59	You know very little about the CPAS Act since the CPAS Act 1976 provided for the right to social assistance, regardless of the level of income, education, etc. This means that someone who has a psychological or marital problem has the right to go to the CPAS. But you categorize the CPAS audience. Mr. Ducrame just asked you the question. You're entangled. You have not been able to answer when the CPAS law shows that everyone is entitled, even outside of financial problems, to the help of the CPAS.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u60	What is at risk here is the relationship between social workers and CPAS users, whatever they may be and whatever their difficulties or problems. Undeniably! Talking to CPAS presidents... I'm trying to answer your question. Have the courtesy of looking at me!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u61	Mr Vanden Burre, the law before us only represents one group, namely the terrorists. These are not OCMW's, victims or relationships between social assistants and clients. However, when someone finds out that there is a terrorist in front of him or her, we believe that the public interest should be at the heart of the relationship between the social assistant and that person. That's all the bill is about.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u62	To answer you, ma'am, what is hurting is the relationship between the users of the CPAS, whatever they are and whatever the reason they use the CPAS, and their social assistant. It is therefore the whole functioning of the relationship of trust that is undermined with the active obligation to inform. That is what I am putting forward and that is what, for us, is undermining the social system of which the CPAS is one of the pillars. That's the reality. Talk, I imagine you did it, I hope, with CPAS presidents, with CPAS advisors. There is no question today of implying that we are more lax or that we would have a certain tendency to let terrorists be at peace and wander around. That is really the argument that we believe is not admissible. Of course, we share this objective. Simply, this method is not effective in relation to the objective we share. And I can say that we share, in a common way, this objective of combating terrorists in general. Particular attention should be paid to those who are registered. But that's not what we're doing here.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u63	Mr Vanden Burre, like all opponents of the bill, you say, on the one hand, that a social assistant sitting in front of a terrorist today will report this. The facts prove that this is not the case. On the other hand, you argue that now that the declaration is required, clients will no longer dare to turn to the social assistant. So you're constantly contradicting yourself. In the discussion on professional secrecy in the case of child abuse, did you also use the argument that child abusers might not go to the doctor anymore? That argument just doesn't work. The professional secrecy was never meant to be total; there was always a limit. Well, the majority is drawing the line today in the face of terrorism. In our view, that is not the case with the relationship between a client and his social assistant. Isn't that obvious? If you really don't agree, please put it in the paper. Honestly, we've had that discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u64	Honestly, you blame us for trying to contradict you, but you have to admit that you're pushing us the pole. You tell us that you agree to lead the fight against terrorism, you acknowledge, because judicial authorities have said so, that CPAS have not contributed. Without wishing to reveal certain discussions in the Committee of Inquiry, it is well known that, for at least one case, if several information from different sources had been encountered, a crucial action could have been taken. This means that the gathering of information upstream is important. I do not repeat Mrs Van Cauter's argument, we have all heard it. But to say that it is because of this that one is obliged to destroy the trust established between the user of the CPAS and the social assistant, it is incredible. I've never been president of CPAS. I can imagine myself in a situation where, in order to appeal to the CPAS, I will start not to trust the social worker who listens to me for I do not know what payment problem, because I would know that if he suspects me of having done something that could affect terrorism, I would risk a problem. But not at all! The vast majority of citizens are not concerned. The ones we are looking for – it has just been recalled – are those who have criminal intentions and we feel, at some point, that the feeling of wanting to commit a criminal act is present in the person. This may include meeting with a social worker who can perhaps provide interesting information. That is the only objective of this proposal, which does not concern millions of other citizens!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u65	Mr Miller, I will also return to the committee of inquiry without revealing what has been said. There has never been an active obligation about the example you refer to. Secondly, the problem is that of the relationship of trust. Even without the law we are discussing here, that is already the case. We know that difficulties sometimes arise in terms of the relationship of trust between the social worker and the user. Therefore, I do not claim that adding another layer to this relationship is null and void, but it helps to dismantle it. That is how we perceive the consequences of this proposal. And we're not alone in thinking that way. Thus, all the secretaries of the Brussels CPAS share this concern. So it's not like we're isolated on this issue. All actors in the field highlight their working conditions in terms of professional secrecy and the relationship of trust between users and social workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u66	Just one more word, Mr. President. Mr Vanden Burre, we have already responded on several occasions to your argument that you are not alone in defending such a position. Information was disseminated.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u67	That's what you say when we don't agree with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u68	Secondly, you remind us that the social worker is already obliged to transmit information in different cases. I do not have the feeling that this has been dismantled, to resume your term, the trust that is established between a user and a social worker who does his job properly, who is a professional and who works in really difficult situations. Mr Di Rupo and I, in Borinage, are very familiar with this type of difficulty. In addition, we know very well that CPAS is a place where people in difficulty find extremely important support. So come and say that...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u69	Those who were there this afternoon in front of Parliament would have liked us to discuss them together.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u70	I find that talking about a dismantling of trust between a social worker and the person who comes to find him is ultimately a cynical use of a dossier that we are all facing, namely the protection of our fellow citizens from terrorists. You cynically argue by talking about an "attack against social workers." That's not true!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u71	It's a reality. Hundreds of students, future social workers, demonstrated on this subject three weeks ago. I think that's an argument. When you say, "We're never right on our own," that's still an argument. To tell us that we are cynical about this is not correct. It is a question of feeling on the ground, which we are relaying here to Parliament. I wanted to let you know. It is a reality today: this provision makes things more difficult. We can sneeze on words.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u72	As you have invited me to do, I will briefly add three elements. The first one is next. The image and the presentation you make of a reality that would like all social workers, all CPAS and all interlocutors to be opposed to this provision to be inaccurate. For meeting many CPAS, social workers and a number of interlocutors involved in this law, I can tell you that there are also a significant number of people who support it. Secondly, the social workers are insisting on clarity. This law brings some. They also ask us for clarity as to how it is applied. What facts, what kind of clues, what situations, what elements, what procedures? It is an element that, in consultation with the CPAS and the SPP Social Integration, we are of course planning to deal with quickly, within two months of the entry into force of this provision. This element will be dealt with via an indicative and explanatory circular. Thirdly, I absolutely disagree with you on one point: what undermines trust is the fact that some, really involved, or likely to be involved in terrorist acts, use this relationship of trust and take refuge, where appropriate, behind professional secrecy, while the vast majority of this relationship of trust is obviously not concerned. The use of it by some criminals is what undermines the relationship of trust and not the text we are discussing today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u73	I agree with you. Therefore, let us focus, Minister! Things are not targeted; I agree with you on your last point. The problem of the text lies in paragraph 3: it is the obligation for every worker to proactively inform the judiciary. This provision is not targeted. You yourself say that for the vast majority, there is no problem. So, let's focus! That's the problem I've been trying to describe for a few dozen minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u74	If social workers are wrong at the moment, it is not only because of this provision. We are faced with federal requirements for social workers and CPAS. These requirements are associated with normative policies of exclusion. What role is being built for future social workers? This question arises in all schools in the social field: are people in difficulty accompanied or are they a tool of control and exclusion? You are busy adding a layer to existing information and control provisions and it is an infringement of rights. You are using the fight against terrorism to reduce the rights and autonomy of social workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u75	Colleagues, you will understand that. Our group will oppose this text with conviction.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, I feel you all very well! This is a delicate debate because it is on the ridge between two foundations of our democracy: on the one hand, the right to privacy and, on the other, the right to security. I will bring to the debate elements of nuance in relation to what I have just heard here, but above all outside this House, where there is a lot of counter-truth. I must confess that I was surprised this morning to be contacted by a large media outlet who asked me why I wanted to correct the CPAS law. I told them that there was no question of that. I was surprised that this media, after six months of debate, did not understand that we were amending the Code of Criminal Investigation. The second question was: why are you dealing specifically with social workers only? I replied that I was sorry but that the word "social worker" did not appear in the text before us, which is a correction of the Code of Criminal Investigation which concerns all social security institutions and their staff. I think that, unfortunately, the way in which the debate was presented to public opinion has heated up some people, whom I have been able to meet and who, in a calm and serene debate, on the basis of the text they have often not read before, told me that they now understand better what it is, that they may not agree with this text but that they are reassured on certain beacons. I regret that this debate was held in these terms, because this debate is very important, fundamental for the future. The way in which this has happened may suggest that this is the flagship solution in the fight against terrorism. But we know that it is only one element of a patient puzzle in which a whole series of measures, more or less important, together contribute to the fight against terrorism. I would like, on behalf of my group, once again to return to what seems to me to be the right proportion of this debate, i.e. a clarification, a difficult, sensitive but indispensable arbitration, between two obligations, two duties which are incumbent on each of us, which are both the foundations of our democracy and both the guarantors of our freedoms. As we know, professional secrecy allows the journalist, the lawyer, the doctor whom I am, in particular, the social assistant or even the notary, the police officer to carry out a service towards society or towards us personally, a service that is sometimes vital in the privacy of a personal relationship, with the confidence that confidences, information about our privacy that we want to keep discreet, will not be revealed. Again, there is no point in saying that, as a doctor, I am obviously totally attached to this professional secret. As is well known, this professional secrecy is based primarily on article 458 of the Criminal Code, which states that any person who has a secret entrusted to him cannot disclose it. It is forbidden to reveal it under penalty. It's a public order provision. But as any principle - the vast majority of colleagues have pointed out -, professional secrecy is subject to a series of exceptions, since values, even more important interests than those it protects, are at stake. The possibility of exception is at the very heart - it is interesting to note this - of Article 458 which states, in addition to what was mentioned earlier, that derogation may be made and that derogation may be made when permitted by law. Therefore, there are exceptions to professional secrecy in the very heart of this article. There are all the exceptions provided for in Article 458a. I won't come back. There is article 29 of the Code of Criminal Investigation, which also provides for a wide range of cases, in particular with regard to public officials who have an obligation to report the offences they find. There is a state of necessity. There is no assistance to anyone in danger. There are all these elements that some of you recalled earlier and that already make professional secrecy, again, not absolute. I would like to quote the anti-money laundering law. It dates back to 1993, but has been reviewed several times. It requires an impressive range of professions - from accountants to notaries, insurance brokers, banking brokers, real estate agents, lawyers, diamond dealers, etc. - in matters where there may be money laundering, in particular related to terrorism among other types of crime, to denounce such crimes and offences. There is a set of legal provisions that provide for derogations from professional secrecy. What we are dealing with today is the link between professional secrecy, which some people must be able to preserve in terms of social security measures, and the fight against terrorism. It should be recalled that this threat is still very present. We're still at level 3 of the threat. There have been attacks around the world; there have been no fewer than forty attacks since the beginning of the year. They kill thousands of people, hurt tens of thousands of others, but above all, cause the fear of hundreds of thousands of people, as well as a disaster within our societies, because they instill mistrust, fear, hatred of the other and they destructure the social fabric. The challenge of the fight against terrorism is of course to avoid the wounded and the dead, but it is also to preserve our social cohesion; it is of course to preserve our freedoms and combat the hatred that may arise here and there, as we see in France today, for example. That is the challenge of the fight against terrorism: to be able to oppose parties that instill hatred and seriously undermine our freedoms. There have been regular warnings from the federal prosecutor's office, the College of Attorneys General, as well as from youth magistrates who have come to testify in the Attentats committee, telling us that, in some cases, they were unable to do so. There have also been testimonies from social workers who tell us that this does not concern them, that under no circumstances will they report a terrorist offence. I have had three types of testimony about social security institutions. Some told us not to touch anything, that it worked well. They cooperate, they cooperate, they know how to deal with information that worries them. They have a long-standing internal procedure and cooperate with the justice and security forces. Others told us, wrongly but in good faith, that professional secrecy was absolute for them. They will never derogate from their professional secrecy. Social workers' schools have been mentioned here. This is a subject that will have to be discussed in some schools because I understand that some people understand that professional secrecy would be absolute for certain categories of functions. I am a doctor and I have not heard the doctors, who are also concerned, stand up saying that it is out of the question of reporting a terrorist offence. I heard a doctor worry about social workers but not himself. That's interesting. Nor have I heard the financial services managers, the accountants, the technicians, who can be informed. I think there is a particular sensitivity here, there will be an educational effort to make. We will have to pay attention to this fear, to this concern which, in my opinion, is overvalued, but which does exist. That is why, minister, I regret that you did not have time to tell us in committee how you were going to implement this bill. A third category of people told us that they would like to cooperate. But there is this article 458, and therefore there is a risk of criminal sanctions and prosecution. This is a clarification to be made because these people do not feel able to cooperate given the clear and clear barrier set out in the Criminal Code. We have had this discussion for two years. For two years we have been turning around in a lack of clarity. These three points of view are all in good faith. They are all brought in by social security institutions, all of which have found, or not, ways to cooperate, or not, with justice. I think after two years, it was important that we could have a clarification. And at the CDH we have tabled texts, which are currently being debated in the Committee on Justice, concerning this cooperation which some wanted, but felt they could not be implemented, which others thought might be a little superfluous and which others considered to be totally alien to their work. It is for this reason that it seems to us that the text is not a Copernician revolution. Of course, he makes the lines move a little. He's mostly clarifying them. But it was important to be able to move forward. What is the scope of the law that is being debated today? First of all, I want to repeat that this is not the original law. We are not discussing a ghost, but a text that has been completely revised, under our leadership, under the impetus of the Council of State and at the initiative of some members of the opposition or of the majority, in any case members who wanted to sweep away this idea that we would attack the CPAS and that we would be wide-ranging for all crimes and offences. Today we are talking about terrorist offences. That was the least we could expect from the Terrorism Committee to focus on this issue. This is not the original text. There is a question of a text which has been amended very broadly, of course with regard to medical secrecy. It was indispensable for us. We had tabled an amendment to that effect. It is true, an active obligation is created. But there are precedents. A whole range of other functions, in a variety of other situations, already provide for this active obligation. It is not a Pandora's box that we would suddenly have opened, a serious and unprecedented precedent in the legislation. No, it exists for a whole series of other crimes. It seemed to us that this could be done legitimately with regard to terrorism.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u77	Mr Dallemagne, can you tell me whether these provisions relate to evidence or offences committed?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u78	Generally speaking, this relates to offences that have been committed. In any case, these are clues. You ask me a question and I'll answer you. When it comes to money laundering related to terrorist offences, you have a financial officer, who says he has the feeling that there is something that could be related to such an offence. He's not a magistrate, he's not a lawyer. He's an accountant or financial manager. He transmits this to the king's attorney. Suspicion. He transmits this to a magistrate, whether to CTIF or elsewhere, he transmits it to a magistrate. We're asking for the same thing here. What is this notion of a serious clue? I would like it to be clarified. We will come back and my colleague Francis Delperée will say what we think about how we can clarify the text. I imagine once again, to take another example, that when you are a doctor, and you have someone in front of you who says, "I am going to Syria tomorrow", we have not read the Penal Code. We think it's a serious clue. But we're not ourselves a judge, a magistrate, a lawyer. We'll have to appreciate it, see what's going on. Is it the mother who's going to get her child?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u79	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u80	You spoke on your behalf, Mr. Vanden Burre; it is normal for me to speak on my behalf. In any case, for me, this does not de facto create legal uncertainty as long as these elements are clarified in a text. I must confess that as a doctor, although I have learned and consulted the texts, I am not aware of the whole notion of what could be a terrorist offence. I have the feeling that, in relation to certain elements, we are facing a terrorist offence. It appeared to me a priori, but perhaps I am mistaken, that there were terms of caution to have, which made it possible not to consider oneself as a magistrate or a lawyer. I believe that things need to be clarified in substance, and that there must be a ministerial circular. At the same time, I can understand that the legislator did not want from the outset to indicate that there was a terrorist offence, since we were there in an element of appreciation. We'll have to mark this up.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u81	Mr Dallemagne, I can hear you. You say that the legislator will have to clarify. In fact, it is the government that will handle it by means of a circular. It is therefore not even enshrined in the law. Beyond this, I would remind you that the Council of State has insisted on the principle of proportionality. It is therefore necessary to justify and, therefore, to detail the serious clues. However, this has not been taken into account in parliamentary proceedings. You agree by taking advantage of your profession as a doctor, while you are not even concerned with the problem. So be careful when choosing your examples!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u82	Of course I'm concerned!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u83	You'll excuse me, but things have been ruled out. As far as serious clues are concerned, you're issuing a real blank cheque.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u84	I do not agree with that. We will have further explanations on this point. We will have two speakers on this issue. In conclusion, we are before a text which, in my view, covers the lifting of professional secrecy in the context of terrorist offences. It does not upset the relationship between existing principles. In my view, it does not pose any risk to workers in social security institutions – whether they are, as I said earlier, accountants, technicians, doctors (which of course are also concerned), caregivers or social workers – who would have been wrong about the quality of the evidence they would have observed. On the contrary, it opens up a right that protects them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u85	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u86	No, there are no sanctions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u87	Seriously, do you believe what you're saying? The possible damages to be paid to a person, about whom one would have mistakenly believed to have detected serious clues, is a penalty! And if the employee did not report serious evidence, he might be fired. Isn't that a penalty? The criminal penalty for violating article 458 of the Criminal Code is also one, right? So stop saying that there are none; they exist!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u88	They already apply; they do not change.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u89	Except here we're talking about serious clues, with an appreciation that's totally different.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u90	I am sorry to disagree with you on this issue. There are already civilian possibilities for prosecution, whatever the case may be. And so that doesn't change. However, there are still doubts, Minister, about the effective implementation of this legal provision. You agreed earlier. There are still fears, which have been expressed by social workers or other professionals, such as psychologists. Unfortunately, you were unable to reassure them in committee. I am counting on you to explain here and to remove doubts about these difficulties. It is a matter of ensuring that the fight against terrorism, which is mobilising us all, is more effective tomorrow than it is today. That is the purpose of this and other provisions on which we have already had to decide. In conclusion, professional secrecy remains a fundamental principle for all persons who are custodians of it. It cannot be called into question in its democratic foundations. This secret is not absolute. Over time, in the light of societal developments and threats, exceptions have been added to the law. Given the importance of the terrorist threat, the text recalls the duty of everyone, including the staff of social security institutions, some of whom may have doubts in this regard, to contribute to the fight against this threat. In no case shall it call into question the importance and justification of the professional secrecy to which certain depositaries are bound. It simply recalls that this principle loses its meaning and legitimacy when it comes to preventing a terrorist crime. It also provides protection to those who would untie it for the right reason that they believe they are in the presence of serious indications of terrorist offences.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u91	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if the debate is to take place late, then there are advantages and disadvantages. The downside is that a lot has already been said. The advantage is that I can keep it a little shorter and fill some holes. The history has already been outlined by the other speakers, but it is important to stress that we have actually left from a very short text. The purpose of that text was to solve an identified problem, in particular the fact that some OCMW members had not addressed the question of the Justice, the Public Prosecutor or an investigating judge for administrative information. Following an opinion from the Council of State, a second version of the text was published. The Council of State's criticism was that the measure was difficult to impose only on OCMWFs and not on other institutions as well. Two amendments were therefore made to the text. Firstly, the text was widened to respond to the criticism of the Council of State. Secondly, something was added to it. Originally, the text only dealt with so-called passive communication: when information is requested, it has to be delivered. Suddenly, there is an active disclosure obligation. I wonder why. The reasons for imposing so-called passive communication were clear, because apparently there have been some problems in this respect. Maybe those problems could be solved in another way, but I could still understand the purpose of the mandatory passive communication. However, I do not see the reasons for the obligation to provide information. Are there any known cases in this context? In any case, we have not heard anything about this in our committee of inquiry. There are no findings in which an active information obligation on social workers caused problems in practice. The active information requirement is also not justified.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u92	Mr Van Hecke, this is called progressive insight. If you are talking about examples: that was the result of discussions with, among other things, the College of Procurators, the result of further investigation and the result of just thinking through. If today there are OCMWs they exist, those are the facts that even within a terrorist investigation, under the guise of professional secrecy, refuse to answer direct, pertinent questions from the court, even just to administrative intelligence, then you should think that within such an OCMW you might find something. What will an OCMW that within a terror investigation refuses to answer questions from the parish do, in your opinion, with information it finds itself? I would like to hear from you what, with your common sense, you think will happen within that OCMW. My moving insight says that such an OCMW will not be inclined to say anything on its own. So let's do that at once and give them the same duty, and I will stress it once again for my fellow Members of this House as any citizen in this country, except those with professional secrecy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u93	It is clear, therefore, that this addition has been made by moving insight. It has been noted: moving insight leads to amendments. I can only say that in the Committee of Inquiry, which we have not anticipated, we have seen a lot of things that sometimes go wrong, but not the things you mean by your moving insight, but perhaps we will solve a problem in a few years' time. I will look at what problems may arise with this progressive insight. For the sake of clarity, before you give all kinds of interpretations: when it comes to information requested by the Justice Department, there is no problem for us, if there is a problem on the basis of the current legislation, to legitimise it and to eliminate its ambiguity. Secondly, the active obligation to provide information. Of course, that's problematic. I'll talk about it later. Thirdly, there is actually one problem, and I acknowledge that, and we are also having this discussion in other forums with the Local Integrated Safety Cells that are operating today. Everyone is very satisfied with their way of working, but there is no legal basis for sometimes exchanging information. A solution must be found for this. The Council of State also says that a legal basis must be sought for this. This is the subject of another text which will be dealt with in another committee, first in potpourri IV and then in potpourri V, with many amendments in the coming weeks. I recognise that problem, Mrs Van Peel. I'm saying that clearly. I recognize the problem and I want to help find a solution. Until recently, the lyrics that met the standards were not satisfactory. There was serious criticism from the Council of State. That is a problem that we must solve. I believe that we all agree with the finality, that we should try to prevent terrorist offences, and that we should agree on how to deal with essential information when it is available. However, we need to look for a good regulation for that. I was surprised, Mrs Van Peel, that you read from that letter. You have been given permission to read that letter from a person who is angry, who is outraged at what he has been through. I have noted all the things you have quoted from that. For example, he's angry because he doesn't get access to the criminal record. That's what you said. That has nothing to do with this. That's not an OCMW mistake. That's not a problem with the OCMW. It's a problem with the Justice Department. He feels abandoned as a victim. He was very angry about that. Many victims are angry because they feel abandoned, even a year after the facts. We have made recommendations this week to remedy this. That is indeed a problem, but it has nothing to do with the problem we are dealing with today. This is not the fault of the OCMW or of the social workers either. There are other problems that make people angry. The examples cited always go back to the passive obligation to provide information. What are the problems with this text? There are five problems. A number of aspects have already been addressed. Firstly, there is a problem that we have mentioned from the outset. The third paragraph is actually very vague. What does that line say? It is about getting knowledge of information that may constitute serious indications of a terrorist offence. Now you need to think carefully. Suppose you are an employee of one of those social institutions that are referred to in this law and you are required to report when you have information that may be an indication of a terrorist offence. What do lawyers do if the law isn't very clear? What do judges and lawyers do? They look at the preparatory work. So I come to the second point I want to make: the intention is unclear. I've heard a lot of things here this afternoon and tonight. I've heard that if you find crimes, you have to report them. I've heard some people talk about clues. If there are any clues, you must indicate. In the preparatory work, as the statement by the Council of State says, Mrs Van Peel, you have said quite clearly in several places. I refer to the comprehensive report of 23 January 2017. You said it should be about information about the existence of a terrorist offence. It's in the preparatory papers two or three times. The Council of State also refers to this in its last opinion on the amendments tabled and accepts it. He says that it is the legislator's intention in the latest version of the text that it should be about a terrorist offence committed. A social worker must report, not when he has suspicions, but when he finds a terrorist offence committed. What does that mean? It is really necessary to check whether the constituent elements of a crime have been fulfilled; only then can we speak of a crime. Social workers are not qualified or able to determine whether the constituent elements of a crime have been fulfilled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u94	Mr Van Hecke, when a text is clear, there is no need for further interpretation. The text of the bill to be adopted states that it must cover serious indications that may constitute a terrorist offence. In the text itself, therefore, there is clear evidence of a terrorist offence, which should lead to a duty of reporting for the employee of a social institution. There have been many references to the existing reporting requirements in Articles 29 and 30 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, as we know today. This concerns a completed terrorist offence or other crime which an official, Article 29, or a citizen, Article 30, acquires knowledge or is a witness. I have just made that clear in my reply to Mr Bonte's speech. These are two different things, on the one hand, the completed crime, for which there is already a notification today, and on the other hand, information that may constitute serious indications of the existence of a terrorist offence, which Mrs van Peel is adding through her proposal, precisely in order to prevent a terrorist attack and to act quickly in the chain. If we wait too long and the terrorist attacks, it's too late to intervene. It is very important to communicate this information as soon as possible to the competent authorities, the public prosecutors and investigators, so that they can proactively intervene on this basis and prevent the attack from taking place effectively. I do not think the text can be clearer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u95	I can only read what I read. I see, on the one hand, the text of the law, which I interpret as you do, namely that it is about information that could be serious indications of terrorist offences. The Council of State makes comments on this, and I quote from the report: "The Council of State states that there is legal uncertainty when the reporting obligation relates to any information that can help to prevent any terrorist offence. The speaker opposed this statement: it is not about any information that could prevent a terrorist offence, but about the information about the existence of a terrorist offence." The quoted speaker is Mrs Van Peel. The author's interpretation is that it must be about a crime committed, while the text says, like Mrs Van Cauter, that indications are sufficient. That is the quality of the legislative work we are doing here. There is already a debate today on whether it should be about clues or a crime that has been committed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u96	You'll have to quote it in full. When I'm talking about a crime committed, it's because it's about a judicial finality. It's about tracking down and prosecuting crimes. It's not up to the social assistant to prove the crime. That's a public prosecutor's job. It's about a felony being stumbled upon and reported. This will also prevent de facto new crimes. First and foremost, the preparatory actions are now included in terrorist offences. In addition, if you pass on information about an attack that has already been committed, you will perhaps find another one. That is the answer given to the Council of State, which has been taken into account in its opinion. Secondly, he said that this is a correct interpretation. I wish you every success with your quotes from here and there, but I would have liked to have been a little serious.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u97	Ladies and gentlemen, we can discuss this for a long time. I would suggest, Mrs van Peel, that you re-examine the preparatory work of your own legislative proposal. In the analysis of the amendments tabled, the Council of State says that an amendment by Mr Maingain, I think, should be about elements. He then says on page 4 "It concerns the opinion of 28 March "that that amendment seems to suggest that the information is no longer required to relate to a crime committed. In a footnote we read, and I quote: 'That seems to be the case with the text adopted by the committee responsible in the Chamber. For example, it was stated in that committee that this is not about any information that could prevent a terrorist offence, but about the information on the existence of a terrorist offence. In other words, the Council of State interprets the text with the preparatory acts, as I say here, in the sense you have said. Mrs Van Cauter says that it is not. There are therefore different interpretations: the interpretation of Mrs Van Cauter, the interpretation of Mrs Van Peel and the interpretation of the Council of State. Now we see that, at the discussion, and so I want to know if you will correct that. Did you give a false explanation on the committee? Did you wrongly say to the committee, to reassure us all, that clues are not enough, but that it must be proven? In any case, ladies and gentlemen, whatever it is, when it comes to a crime committed, as you say, there is the problem of its interpretation and the assessment by social workers, because they have to investigate the constituent elements of the crime and of course they cannot do that; that is work for the public prosecutor and for judges. Whether they are indications and, as Mrs Onkelinx says, indications can be very broad: all the facts that could be indications of a possible violation of a terrorist offence. If one buys five litres of a particular chemical from the Boerenbond, one could of course do something with it; if I buy a kilo of nails, I can put it in a bomb. That might be information that might indicate a possible terrorist attack, especially if one has a beard.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u98	Mr Van Hecke, I remember that the lawyers who are beginning to make such caricatures usually do not have many arguments in terms of content. With all due respect, but it is very clear in the text, it has been set out very clearly in the committee and it has just been explained very clearly again. I know that game. You want to play attorney games, but in every trial, there are two lawyers who tell you the opposite. Whatever you say. However, it has been explained very clearly both in an opinion and in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u99	I do not want to play on the person, but I could also argue that anyone who no longer has substantive arguments to explain what is in the text then claims that lawyer tricks are being applied. I have here the interpretation given by the Council of State to your text with your statement. She's different from what Mrs. Van Cauter means by that. You should ask the people on the ground why they're worried. That's because they're scared and insecure because they don't know what the hell they're supposed to do. They do not know when to act or when to act. You do not know it, you all say something else, and the Council of State interprets it even differently. That is the problem and one of the major dangers in the legislative proposal before us. Thirdly, there is the danger of counter-effect. Other speakers have already mentioned it. The message given is that when someone comes to tell a social worker, the latter can no longer guarantee that he will keep his professional secrecy. After all, if he is provided with information that could constitute a serious indication of a crime or if he identifies a crime, he must report it in accordance with the interpretation ""." The social worker will therefore invite the person who has a problem to do his story, but must also warn him that he will have to transfer everything he tells him to the police. That is the reality. I'm taking the example of a lady who's a client at the OCMW, and who comes to tell me that she doesn't know what's going on with her son. She wants to talk about it, because she has a problem. However, if that mother knows that the information she communicates will go immediately to the police or to the Justice Department, she will not come up with that problem. It may be a serious problem, but we will not find out, because that woman will not show up. That is the reality. That is the danger that is being created.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u100	With all due respect, please stop playing this game. You have said a hundred times in committee and again today that the bill is not necessary and that there is already a state of emergency. If a social assistant stumbles upon a terrorist crime, he'll be able to tell you, because that's a state of emergency, according to you. Still, all these clients seem to be coming. It's not true that all this is a state of emergency, but that's what you always say. Still, those clients keep coming. Now that we say clearly that a terrorist offence must be reported... With all due respect, even the little mother who comes to tell us about her son because she thinks he's radicalizing is not covered by this bill. Then there's the LIVCs to fix it. Quite right, that's an en-and-story. If that little mother comes to tell us that her son took part in yesterday's attacks on 22 March, we're going to tell her. Then we're gonna call the parquet directly. Sorry, that's the caricature you're making of it, that that person wouldn't tell you that anymore, and that would do it today. Come on, please.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u101	The discussion clearly does not make much sense. I am well aware of the problem, but we must ensure that the laws and measures we introduce will not be counterproductive. I fear that through careless legal work we will have a counterproductive effect, which means that we will not achieve the objective we all support in order to avoid so many terrorist crimes. I come to the fourth danger, the confluence and the crossing of the functioning of the LIVCs. The LICVs are doing a good job, but they're not just working on radicalisation. They also work around returned Syrian fighters. They are therefore more concerned with than indications of radicalisation. At the local level people are put together: people from the OCMW, the mayor, the police, the public prosecutor. One can exchange data. A legal basis will have to be found for this, so that it can be done safely, and that is not a problem. People are going to exchange information. If you put the puzzle pieces together, you can get information to take the next steps and decide what you are going to do, keep it in the aid or bring it to justice and so on. What are we gonna do when that law comes? Social worker's noticing anything. Either there is a crime, according to the interpretation of Van Peel, or they are clues, according to the interpretation of Van Cauter. What are we doing with these clues? Are you going straight to the prosecutor or are you going to join the head of service or the chairman of the OMCW? He takes that information with him to the LIVCs to ask what to do with that information. The police may have a piece of the puzzle. The intelligence services may also have a piece of the puzzle. There one can agree on what one does with it. But now there is a risk that, on the one hand, there will be a direct notification to the public prosecutor, which could lead to a criminal investigation, and, on the other hand, at the same time an OCMW chairman will go to the LIVC with that information to see how they will discuss this in order to deal with it as efficiently as possible. So I have a specific question for the Minister of Justice. Mr Minister, as far as the LIVCs are concerned, to which you and your Home Secretary are very proud and everyone says that they work fantastic, what will be the interplay between the functioning of the LIVCs and the application of this law, where immediate notification should be made to the public prosecutor? In what case do we have to go straight to the parquet and in what case can we go to the LIVCs with that information? How do you see that? I would like an answer to that. I don't think you're gonna be able to handle this with a debriefing letter. I think it will require a little more work and that it will be a problem on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u102	Mr President, I have tried to put very specific questions to the government, including the Minister of Justice, on that point too. It remains deafeningly silent. I hope that the Minister will be able to give an answer to that within five minutes. Minister, I would like to add a question. Do you have any idea where no LIVC was founded? This is also mentioned in reports from the P Committee which are on your table. That might be the answer. What is even more important is when is there going to be an initiative for those cities that mordicus ignores the letter and not set up a LIVC? These are two questions that I would like to add, still in the hope that you will say a word in the discussion of this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u103	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u104	To say that we had an agreement that you would leave for the television studio. That's what you said.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u105	I think my question was unique and has not yet been answered. So I look forward to the Minister's reply. Finally, the fifth point. This comment was also made by the Council of State in its opinion of 29 November 2016. We are going to have a problem that is at the heart of professional secrecy. There is mention of the proportionality of measures. That's the essence. If we get it all together, this could undermine the very essence of professional secrecy. That is a fundamental problem, alongside all the other problems and dangers that have been posed. I'm sorry about this. If we had done more and more thorough legal work, we might have found solutions, but possibly together with the Minister of Justice, through the amendment of Article 458, which regulates a problem for people who are confronted with information but do not know what to do with it, but on the other hand could have regulated the functioning of the LIVCs. This is actually some symbol legislation that was launched and which is being adopted today, but which will cause a lot of problems in practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u106	Mr President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we have been debating a repressive bill for a few hours now. The aim is to amend the Code of Criminal Investigation. It is - this is the title of the proposal - to promote the fight against terrorism. I would therefore say, like many, if not all, in this House, that there is no reason to challenge this essential, existential concern. My colleague Dallemagne has just developed it. I would now like to make some criticisms or reservations. I express them with the agreement of the group to which I am honoured to belong. I will just make four remarks. The first problem is political. In any political society, legislators must, at all times, resolve conflicts of values. In the present case, there is one value that is to fight terrorism, but there is another value that is to respect human rights and public freedoms. These two objectives are legitimate. Both of you, that goes without saying. And it is appropriate for the legislator to make a balance of interests. It is a matter of seeking a conciliatory path. I have heard, I have read, I see that the first concern is clearly privileged. Professional secrecy, it is said, disappears as soon as the fight against terrorism is committed. The second point is a constitutional remark. You know articles 12 and 14 of the Constitution. They proclaim the principle of legality, a fundamental principle among all in criminal matters. And we know that the Constitutional Court, the Council of State and the European Court of Human Rights are multiplying judgments in this area and reminding us of this fundamental principle of legality. It means in this case - this is really the least - that we must be able to identify in a precise and clear way who is the target of the new repressive provisions. What is the bill doing in this area? It is content - this is obviously the easiest or most convenient solution - to cite two laws: the Carrefour Bank Act and the Social Insurance Charter Act. Comprehensive who can or understand who will! Legislation, by reference, is always a critical process. It is above all a critical process in law enforcement. Let us take a simple example: it will be enough to amend tomorrow the Carrefour Bank Act or the Social Insurance Charter Act to increase or decrease the scope of the people who will be affected by the legislation that is, for the time being, on our table. Thirdly, there is another constitutional problem. This is a problem that is clear from article 23 of the Constitution. You know this article that enshrines economic, social and cultural rights. I would like to point out here that social security is not social assistance; that social assistance is not social security; that the Belgian Constitution makes a clear distinction. I refer to Article 23, paragraph 3, secundo. You know that, minister. It's a text I wrote with Professor Roger Blanpain of the KUL, with the social law professor, Maxime Stroobant of the VUB. I was the third larron. We have written this text clearly distinguishing between the right to social security and the right to social assistance. These two techniques help to achieve the same objective: to ensure the dignity of the human being, to contribute to its security of existence, to enable certain people to face the difficulties of life. For the rest, these are two systems that use institutions, methods and procedures that are fundamentally different. I know that the Social Insurance Charter refers to CPAS. But it does so "to the extent" (I add: to the extent only) "where the CPAS participate in the implementation of social security". Example: the social income of integration, which was once called the minimax. This means that tomorrow we're going to have to list people in a CPAS who are doing social security because they're dealing with minimalx allowances; and we're going to have to make another list of people, still in CPAS, who are out of the law because they're not connected to the social security system. Admit that there's a way to make it easier. The fourth and final problem is a very legislative one. I also do not discuss the relevance of paragraph 1, which provides that a King's attorney requires the provision of administrative information. Of course, I insist on the last word: "administrative". Paragraph 3 is obviously much more worrying, because it organizes active denunciation. I have been told, and have been repeated ten times, twenty times, in this House, that the law already organizes the denunciation when someone - anyone at the limit - finds an offence, including a terrorist offence. But here, it's not about that. The link with the offence is one can no longer tenuous, distended. Mr. Van Hecke said that a moment ago. It is a question of "recognition" of one or more information, says the text of the proposal. By what means? To whom? By what process? On what subject? No answer. And I confess that what surprised me the most and most worried about the debate that has been developing for four hours is that we are told, "We're going to make a little circular." Circular? This is no longer parliament. It's not even the government. It's a minister who's going to write a circular. Minister of Justice, nullum crimen sine lege, nulla poena sine lege! And the lege is the law! The law is the law we do. It's not a circular! In fact, that is what we, dear Mr Vuye, call false circulars: circulars which believe that they merely give the details of legislation or a commentary to the legislation but which, in fact, complement the legislation. This is the kind of situation that the Council of State does not refuse to cancel. I'm not going much further. I think there are criticisms here, sometimes they say legistice. No! No legislating, no legislation! When I read the texts, I only have one word in my mouth: blur, blur, blur. The law of repression does not accommodate or ill-conceived these inaccuracies and imperfections. You'll understand, I'm a lawyer. Maybe it's a flaw. But I'm a citizen, it's a quality. It is for this reason and for those announced by my colleague that it is obvious that I will not vote for the proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u107	Mr President, I think I can be the interpreter of many members of this House by asking you who, after Mr Delperée's legal demonstration – of unwavering evidence and relevance – could still abstain or vote in favour of the bill before us. [[Applause]] Professor Delperee has many qualities, but will he be a prophet in his country? [[Laughs]] Many arguments have been developed. In principle, I will first ask you to stop retorting those who do not share your legal wanderings that they would play the game of terrorists. It's an argument of a rare lowness. We got a show like that last night. So, if we want to keep the debate high, let's keep it down to some kind of confrontation between "those who really want to fight terrorists" and "professional laxists". None of this! Yes, of course, any reliable and reliable source of information must be exploited. There is no question of considering that there would be professional categories or citizens who would be exempt from any obligation, any duty of information vis-à-vis the judicial authorities. But, in any rule of law that is respected, first of all, we do not organize delation, of course, but we establish procedures that ensure that the information collected can be used in a certain way with a view to reaching convictions. For that is what it is! In other words, in this case, it is a question of whether there will be procedural defects such as, in the end, those who should know the law of justice could escape because, because of the weaknesses of the law, they will have been given the legal arguments to avoid the sanction. That is what is terribly at stake in this debate. And that is what Professor Delperée, our colleague, was right to refer to in his relentless legal demonstration. The Council of State warned you. I know that there is also the temptation, in the effervescent climate of repression at all, to say that, when the Council of State gives us relevant legal information, we must free ourselves from it. But the Council of State tells us so that the objectives are achieved, so that we can have legal certainty, in the security of the rule of law, to achieve these objectives. I consider that section 29 of the Code of Criminal Investigation is not sufficient. Article 29 refers to cases where offences and crimes are committed. So we're not in prevention, but in information after commission of crimes. The classic case, which we all know, concerns the misappropriation of money in a public institution, where the authority, or the official, gives the information to the public prosecutor. Here, you want to prevent the commission of terrorist crimes or offences. I can join you in the process, but it must be done with legal certainty. And here, in fact, we must first know who has this obligation. Francis Delperee has demonstrated this. And then do so by also taking into account the concerns of those who are holders of professional secrecy and who must find a balance between their mission and the obligation of solidarity vis-à-vis society. I think it was Georges Dallemagne who did it, the law on dirty money laundering. What does this law provide for in several cases? This is particularly the case for lawyers. God knows if, in the absence of professional secrecy, there is no right of defence. It is the very condition, the foundation of the profession. What does the Code of Ethics for Lawyers provide? They can of course lift their secret. But what do they have to do? Not to inform the judicial authorities live, but to go to the batonier. They shall give him the information which enables him to verify whether the conditions of the law are met in order to transmit the information to the judicial authorities. It is a wise precaution when seeking the balance between the protection of professional secrecy and the duty of solidarity with society to prevent or inform the commission of crimes or offences. That is why I have tabled an amendment. In fact, the Council of State gave him special attention and asked for technical clarification, which I have done. I have suggested something very reasonable, which would avoid any controversy and you would probably have unanimity or a very broad consensus, if you would think about it rather than having the majority against opposition reflex. I proposed by amendment to replace the concept of "serious indices" with "constituent elements". It is a more serious legal notion than "serious clues". Serious clues are the work of the police. If you want professional secrecy holders or custodians to lift their professional secrecy, there is a need for a little more legal clarification: "constituent elements of terrorist crimes and offences". Secondly, there must be a reference. I have made it clear that it must be the highest official of the institution concerned, or the political authority which controls the institution. This is what the Minister of Justice and the Minister of the Interior have suggested in a circular on returns. What did they say when we got the first measurements and we got a circular all of the mayors together? Already, at that time, we were told to alert the officials of the communes to see what information can be collected about the behaviour of those who have returned from Syria. And what have you asked, by means of a circular, which is very inadequate in legal terms, I would like to join you? What do you have as a wise precaution to say? Not that each official would transmit directly to the judicial authorities, but that the mayor was the focal point responsible for transmitting the information. For evidence, as Mr. Van Hecke, how can we ask staff members who, through their training or their professional priorities, are not prepared to be able to consider with certainty, from a legal point of view, what must be communicated to the judicial authorities and do so on-line, whereas by passing a reference, you allow for legal certainty? Would it not be reasonable to accept this amendment in order to bring about appeasement? I see that as an additional advantage. Because I, too, Mr Dallemagne, have spoken with staff members of the institutions concerned. What is their great fear? Many, in fact, do not refuse to contribute to the search for the truth at the judicial level, but want protection in case of reprisals. You know very well that this is a problem that all police services encounter on a daily basis when they have to gather information, even from an ordinary citizen. A fortiori when we are in the fight against terrorism! By creating a filter between the custodian of professional secrecy and the judicial authority, through a superior authority, you protect these custodians from fear of reprisals because you guarantee their anonymity. What they urge. Today, the major criticism of many of the people involved is: "Where is the protection that is due to me if I provide essential information for the prevention of a terrorist crime?" These are all the reasons why you should accept a reasonable amendment that would strike a balance between protecting society and maintaining the quality of the relationship of trust guaranteed by professional secrecy. So, no leitmotiv, serious legal work and we can achieve serious goals!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u108	Ladies and gentlemen, we must note here that, for the umpteenth time in this Parliament, the N-VA wants to dismantle the rights and freedoms in this country. We're really getting to know their arguments. They want to strengthen the security of these citizens. But this N-VA bill, which tends to empty professional secrecy from its content in a social security institution, does not strengthen security. The proposal was rightly criticized by various organisations on the ground, by the Flemish association of towns and municipalities, the federation of CPAS, the Ordre des barreaus francophones, etc. In order to provide justice with useful information on the terrorist danger, the proposal before us is not necessary. There are already many exceptions to professional secrecy, which ensure that useful information about terrorist offences will be brought to justice, even by persons held to professional secrecy. Currently, there is an obligation to answer questions from investigating judges, courts and parliamentary commissions of inquiry. That is what is happening in practice. Moreover, this bill requires the provision of administrative information, whereas this information is mostly already accessible and is not covered by professional secrecy. More than that, this bill is not only useless, it will be counterproductive. By breaking professional secrecy, employees of social security, including those of CPAS, will be more difficult to build a bond of trust. They will therefore find it more difficult to intervene preventively. Social workers must be able to listen to the unemployed, the sick, and the others assisted, in order to go with them in search of solutions. They constitute a first-line prevention against indoctrination by radicalised persons or terrorists. With this bill, the N-VA wants once again to move away from prevention - it is still an individual responsibility, we know the speech! - to invest even more in repression and prosecution. It should be added to this that an obligation of active information is introduced here: not the right to inform, but an obligation. The bill remains very vague. What information is this about? The Council of State also asked a lot of questions about this obligation of active information, about the vague nature of the information to be disclosed. In the end, the proponents of the proposal did not take this into account. In addition, this can lead to an often unnecessary flow of information into the public prosecutor's offices. At present, the problem is often not the lack of information, but the lack of capacity to process the information received, sometimes excessive. The obligation of active information may endanger the primary tasks of social security workers. In particular, there is a constant pressure to pay attention to information that can lead to serious indications of the existence of a terrorist offence. This makes social workers co-workers of the justice system, or even police officers. If employees do not provide certain clues, they may be prosecuted. If, on the other hand, they violate professional secrecy, for example by mistake, they may also be prosecuted. This therefore entails a great individual responsibility. One might wonder whether the N-VA is not preparing to designate a scapegoat. For example, after last year's attacks, she blamed the liaison officer in Turkey. Since then, it has appeared that he has followed all the procedures correctly. But we're still waiting for an apology. If an attack is again committed in our country, will the N-VA blame the CPAS, which it believes would not have paid sufficient attention? In view of this party's contempt for everything that has a connection with social security, this is not to be excluded. In one opinion, Mr Van Peel, the author of the proposal, suggested that CPAS protect terrorists. I quote his dishonest argument: "Is there anyone who finds the safety of our fellow citizens less important than the relationship of trust between a terrorist and a social worker?" Arguably known... This text is another step towards weakening professional secrecy in other professions such as lawyers, doctors or journalists. This government, if attacked, plans to continue in this direction, including the next "Pot-pourri V". The PTB will therefore vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u109	Mr President, I should first like to apologize to the Members of Parliament for the misunderstanding that has just occurred between me and Mr Bonte. I would then like to make it clear that the reply I gave at the time concerning Article 29 concerning officials other than OCMW officials remains fully valid, namely that they are subject to Article 29 of the Code of Criminal Procedure without recourse to professional secrecy. I have listened with great attention to the discussion about Article 29 and the serious indications of crime required in § 3 of this bill. Although I have great sympathy with what Mr Maingain has said, I do not believe that Article 29 of the Code of Criminal Procedure requires the official to establish before he can declare that all the constituent elements of the crime are fulfilled. If Article 29 were to apply before the declaration was made, very few declarations would be made. Mr Van Hecke, I admit that you have spoken accurately and passionately on this subject, but I dare say that we should not go too far in the semantic discussion on Paragraph 3. I do not think that the application of Article 29 is required in the current law more than that the person making a declaration has serious indications. Whether or not there is a crime to be prosecuted will be determined by the public prosecutor. This shall not normally be determined by the official making the declaration. I also have a certain sympathy... Mr Maingain, I also have some sympathy for the filter because it is well known in tax law. But once again, in this case, there is a crime that threatens the freedom and security of third parties in a very serious way. The filter for tax law is good, but for terrorism it takes time and we don't have one! Mr. Bonte, you have repeatedly referred to the federal prosecutor. I will not go back to the debate on the municipalities for which Mr Jambon was present, but I can at least tell you that the public prosecutor himself asked for this bill. That doesn't mean it's a good bill, but it really did. Mr Delmulle mentioned it in his 2015 mercurale. The parquet really asked for the text, because the OCMWFs did not respond as the parquet wanted and did not apply Article 29 when it was desirable in the eyes of the parquets. I can only say it's true. In the current context, I feel very much for that. In view of the guarantees given and the seriousness that we have been able to establish in our offices over the past 2.5 years, including the Federal Office of the Interior and the competent Attorney General for Terrorism, I do not think that their explicit question should simply be waved away by hand. As far as the Local Integrated Safety Cells are concerned, Mr Bonte, I tried to answer that earlier, but I would like to come back to it again. It's not an or-or story, it's an en-and-story. Indeed, at the moment there are not LIVCs everywhere. It is the wish of the Minister for the Interior, who is responsible for this, that this should be the case. At present, the OCAD is responsible for drafting a draft law in this area, which is fully supported by the Justice Department. Secondly, where there is a LIVC, the complementary application of the proposed provision with the operation of a LIVC does not pose a problem. On the contrary, officials of the OMCW who participate in such a LIVC will, without violating professional secrecy, communicate certain information to the public prosecutor, who would be present at such a LIVC, and that is a positive thing. In other words, the OCMW official feels at ease when he is in such a LIVC with regard to the scheme, at least that's how I read them. I mean, I can read. So I don't really see the contradiction you seem to be looking for. In addition, we will soon be able to communicate information, for example in the context of intra-family violence or sexual delinquency on minors, within the framework of the potpourri V-Law, and that is also important. Last week, I consulted with the educational poles and the public prosecutor, precisely on the sharing of information on sexual delinquency on minors in that kind of case consultation, with communication of secrets which should not normally be disclosed under Article 458. I believe that these are positive developments. I have no problem defending the principles of our rule of law. I listened very carefully to Mr Delpérée. In law, it is more common for people with good taste to disagree. That's not wrong. This contributes to the refinement of our rule of law. I believe that the draft law before us is a good one. I also believe that it is not sloppy. Perhaps I am not always accused of being present in committee. Indeed, I was not always present on the committee. Tonight I thought I had the permission of all Members, but I have not talked to everyone thoroughly and I have misunderstood you, Mr Bonte, but that will not cast doubt on our further relationship, at least not on my part. I hope not of yours either. I think I've tried to be in all the places where I was asked to be. I do not want to sound presumptuous to receive lessons from many people when it comes to preparing the legislation on terrorism in the Committee on Justice. I did the best I could. If I had been asked to be there, if I had been advanced, I would have been there. I do know that in recent months the best people in my cabinet have been permanently employed by the Metsu Committee to file the legislative proposals as well as possible, where necessary. The perfection is not of this world, but I do not have the impression that we are going to vote on sloppy legislation here. We all know, moreover, that after the evaluation we will still have ample opportunity to update the provisions if necessary. I therefore hope that Parliament will make a favourable assessment of this legislative proposal. I have listened carefully to the proposed amendments. However, with the text before us, we can bring legal certainty.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u110	Mr President, I shall be very brief, having had the opportunity to speak in the debate. I would like to address two points since the CPAS will be significantly involved, but of course not exclusively concerned, in order to consider that the scheme as proposed is proportionate to the objective pursued. We are talking only about acts of terrorism. Furthermore, as desired by the CPAS, the scheme has been extended to cover all workers in the social security institutions concerned. Thirdly, at the request of the CPAS, a circular, not to write the law or to amend it obviously, but simply to explain it and to give a number of practical variations, is in preparation and will be communicated to the CPAS very soon. Fourthly, I can tell you that from direct evidence of a number of situations, this text responds to a need and, in some cases, to a request from certain social workers who aspired to clarity and to be able to respond to extremely sensitive situations that they were aware of or faced with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u111	Mr President, I would like to correct some of the points that have just been made by Mr Borsus. I would like to remind him, because he has never been present in committee, that if there is an extension, it is because the Council of State has said that this is a problem if we are only targeting CPAS since that part had been regionalised. Second, the CPAS did not ask that it be extended to all social workers, but clarified that if they were targeted, they did not see why others should not be. This is not at all the same, because the CPAS were not applicants. Thirdly, they said that all this could be settled by circular and that there were still uncertainties. The choice of circular has been swept away and uncertainties persist. They may be settled by circular, and not submitted to Parliament. Come on, what can you do?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u112	Minister, you are testifying to the fact that it would be desirable, useful and perhaps a good habit for Members of Parliament to ask government members questions about legislative proposals to be present in committee. That would benefit the debate. I will not respond to a number of issues, but I would like to say two things and ask one more question, if I may. First of all, I have repeatedly asked to be able to hear the parole officer, including the federal prosecutor. The mercurial, as I read them and as she was explained to me, is indeed a cry of indignation which I share 200 percent. When the parquet asks for information from an OCMW, they refuse to give it. That has to be resolved and it is dealt with in the first part of the bill. I have explained that we are absolutely in favour of this. That is not the point of discussion, but it is the duty imposed on thousands of people today, and that is not my question for the moment. Secondly, I find it very bizarre that every now and then months, meanwhile, security services and MEPs are pushing for LIVCs to work and work well throughout the country. There are reports on the government table, made by the P Committee, which also insist on this. When I address you as co-responsible for the letter, you say that the Minister of the Interior is working on it and that he would also prefer there to be more. It is so essential and crucial in the follow-up to radicalism and the prevention of terrorism that it should be the primary concern of the entire government, including you, Minister, to ensure a serious dynamic in order to build bridges between administrative authorities, police authorities, social policy areas and judicial authorities. That should be the first concern of anyone who pretends to be safe every day. So I find it strange when you say that Minister Jambon is doing that. I have one more question, perhaps because I did not quite understand what you said at the beginning of your reply, namely that it refers to the OCMW employees, but not to the others. So I don't understand anymore. We have had long discussions about what was understood by the social security institutions. That's cleared up. Lists of pension services, child benefit cases, trade unions, OCMWs, COWS, OCJs and street corner work have been drawn up. Mr Minister, the question I would like to repeat here and to which I would like to hear an answer from you, because it is the question that is being asked outside by thousands of staff, is the question about the obligation to provide information that is now being introduced. It refers exclusively to OCMW staff or also to that very broad group, such as the pension services, of staff who, as Mrs Van Peel has explained, are all employed in these institutions. Mr Van Hecke is a lawyer and is aware of the importance of the interpretation in the preparatory work. Examples were used by the applicant, in particular that the cook and gardener are also covered by that provision. The question I want to ask is important, also for the credibility of our democracy and of the legislator. We must be able to make it clear tomorrow to the people who are under this obligation. Are these just OCMW employees or are they indeed the tens of thousands of employees from all social security institutions, including CAWFs and that's more? I would like an answer to that question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u113	With pleasure, Mr. Bonte. It is not because I said that Minister Jambon is preparing this bill that the entire government, and especially the Minister of Justice, would not fully support it. It is only formally the Committee on the Interior and the Minister of the Interior who do so. I also think again, Justice has had a serious hand in the circular of 31 August 2015 on this piece of work that I have done my utmost with Justice to promote the LIVCs as much as possible. As far as your second question is concerned, Mr Delmulle is indeed saying in his Mercuriale, he is only talking about the OCMW, but I shall immediately come to your third question........................................................................................................................................................................................................ Thirdly, it goes without saying that I used a compaction earlier when I spoke about the obligation to communicate. The third paragraph goes much wider than that, as you know, than the OCMW people. However, I would like to stress once again to the Court that it is important to see that this provision, unlike the one relating to the action brought by the prosecution, is not sanctioned by criminal law. I would like to underline that, and I think that is relevant information. When the parquet is progressing and the information is not given, there is a penalty. If one has to provide information on the basis of the provision, without progressing, there is no sanction. I think that's important information, if you say we're going to create chaos. That's what I'm talking about. Article 29 is excluded from or excluded from Article 458 for those who have been kept by Article 458, i.e. people other than the chefs, because they are not kept by Article 458, for the sake of clarity. This provision therefore concerns people who have been held by Article 458. It is a broad provision, which refers to the social security institutions. This provision explicitly states by not saying anything that there is no sanction, while there is a penalty in the opposite direction. That means that, as for the whole of Article 29, this is not a harsh provision. And you know that, Mr. Bonte. And I know that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u114	Mr President, earlier in my reply to Mr Vanden Burre, I used a term which I wish to withdraw. I used the word "cynic." It exceeded my mind. I wish to withdraw it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u115	We take note of that, Mr. Miller. Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u116	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2050/9) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2050/9) The title in Dutch was amended by the Committee in its draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure to promote the fight against terrorism." The title in Dutch has been amended by the committee in amending the Code of Criminal Procedure to promote the fight against terrorism '. The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u117	• 15 - Olivier Maingain cs (2050/13) ****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the Rule that has been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u118	Sustained: the vote on the amendments and Article 2. Article adopted by article: Articles 1 and 3. Adopted article by article: articles 1 and 3. ******
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u119	In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 16 March 2017, two new calls for candidates were published in the Belgian Official Journal of 28 March 2017, one for the President and the two members of the Disciplinary Board and another for the Registrars. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 16 March 2017, two new calls for candidates were published in the Belgian Monitor of 28 March 2017, one for the Chairman and the two members of the Disciplinary Council and one for the Registrars. The Disciplinary Board shall consist of a chairman and two members, all magistrates, elected by the Chamber of Representatives for a renewable term of six years. The President of the Disciplinary Board must prove his knowledge of Dutch and French. One member is Dutch-speaking, the other French-speaking. The Chamber of Representatives should appoint alternates both for the President and for the members. The Disciplinary Council consists of a President and two members, all judges, who are elected by the House of Representatives for a renewable term of six years. The Chairman of the Disciplinary Council must prove his knowledge of French and Dutch. One member is French-speaking, the other is Dutch-speaking. For both the President and the members, the House of Representatives must appoint alternates. Following the five calls for candidates in the Belgian Official Journal, the following applications were submitted:
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u120	- Mr Kristiaan Dehing, Judge at the Court of Commerce in Ghent - Mr Hans Van Bossuyt, Deputy Magistrate at the Court of Appeal in Ghent
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u121	- Mr Eric Robert, President of peace judges and judges in the police court of the judicial district of Luxembourg - Mr Dejan Savatic, Chairman of the Nijvel Commercial Court. Following the five calls for candidates for the Belgian Monitor, the following applications were submitted:
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u122	- Mr. Kristiaan Dehing, judge at the Ghent Commercial Court - Mr. Hans Van Bossuyt, Deputy Magistrate, Ghent Court of Appeal
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u123	- Mr. Eric Robert, President of the Justices of the Peace and Judges of the Police Tribunal of the Judicial District of Luxembourg - Mr. Dejan Savatic, president of the Nivelles Commercial Court. No candidacy was made for the President's term of office. No nominations were submitted for the term of office of President. The Secretariat of the Disciplinary Board is provided by a Dutch-speaking and French-speaking Registrar, both magistrates, who are also elected by the Chamber of Representatives. The secretariat of the Disciplinary Council is entrusted to a French-speaking clerk and a Dutch-speaking clerk, both judges, who are also elected by the House of Representatives. Following the five calls for candidates in the Belgian Official Journal, the following applications were submitted:
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u124	- Mr Eric Robert, President of peace judges and judges in the police court of the judicial district of Luxembourg. Following the five calls for candidates for the Belgian Monitor, the following candidacy was submitted:
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u125	- Mr. Eric Robert, President of the Justices of the Peace and Judges of the Police Tribunal of the Judicial District of Luxembourg. No application was made for the mandate of the Dutch-speaking Registrar. No candidature was submitted for the term of office of Dutch-speaking Registrar. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 3 May 2017, I propose to deliver the curriculum vitae of candidates to the political groups. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 3 May 2017, I propose that you transmit the curriculum vitae of the candidates to the political groups. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u126	The next item is the secret ballot for the appointment of a councillor in the Court of Auditors (Dutch Chamber). The next item is the election to appoint an adviser to the Court of Auditors (Netherlands Chamber). The applications were announced at the plenary session of 30 March 2017. Nominations were announced in plenary on March 30, 2017. The Sub-Committee "Rekenhof' heard all candidates on 18 April 2017. The Chair of the Subcommittee reported on the hearing at the Conference of Presidents of 26 April 2017. The Sub-Committee on the Court of Auditors heard all the candidates on 18 April 2017. The Chairman of the Sub-Committee reported on these hearings in the Conference of Presidents on 26 April 2017. The list of candidates was distributed on the banks (2433/1). The list of candidates was distributed on the benches (2433/1). The ballots have already been distributed. Ballot papers have already been distributed. As the vote is secret, the ballots must not be signed. Due to the secret nature of the ballot, ballot papers cannot be signed. In order to vote, one has to place a cross in the box opposite the name of the chosen candidate. The votes cast on more than one candidate shall be invalid. A vote should be taken by drawing a cross in the box opposite the name of the selected candidate. The votes cast in favour of more than one candidate are void. First we have to put together one or two desks of voters by drawing lots. Each bureau shall be composed of four members. I propose, however, that the two youngest Members who have taken their seats at the Bureau today should be appointed to vote. We must first draw lots from one or two offices of deputy returning officers, each composed of four members, who will be responsible for the counting. I suggest, however, that you appoint the two youngest members to the bureau this day to take the ballots. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. The ladies Nawal Ben Hamou and Yoleen Van Camp are appointed to record the votes. Ms. Nawal Ben Hamou and Ms. Yoleen Van Camp were appointed to vote. I suggest that the ballots be counted in the conference room, in the presence of the voters. I propose that you proceed to the counting of the ballots in the Conference Hall, in the presence of the deputy returning officers. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I would ask every Member to put his unsigned ballot paper in the ballot box when calling his name. Please come along my left side to the speaker's seat and leave it on my right side. Upon the call of his or her name, each member is requested to submit his or her unsigned ballot in the ballot box, going up to the rostrum from my left to my right. I invite the voters from the names to call. I invite the deputy returning officers to make the roll call.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u127	Did everyone vote? Did everyone put their ballot in the ballot box? I declare the vote closed. I invite the voters to proceed to the vote. I declare the ballot closed and invite the deputy returning officers to proceed with the counting.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u128	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 3 May 2017, I also propose to you the proposal for a resolution (Mr Veli Yüksel) on a more effective punishment for authors of hateful messages on social media, No. 2448/1, to be considered.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u129	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 3 May 2017, I also propose that you take into account the motion for a resolution (Mr Veli Yüksel) aimed at sanctioning more effectively the perpetrators of hate messages on social media, No. 2448/1
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u130	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u131	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 101 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 34 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. (1940/9) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. (1940/9) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u132	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 104 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 32 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. (2087/10) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. (2087/10) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u133	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 131 Yes No. 3...................................................................................................................... 3...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (1276/8) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (1276/8) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u134	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 81 Yes No. [[45]] No Abstentions 10 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The proposal of Resolution No. 1762/1 was therefore rejected. Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Motion for a resolution No 1762/1 is therefore rejected. Mr Thiébaut voted against. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u135	Vote on Amendment No 16 by Hans Bonte on Article 2. (2050/14) Vote on amendment No 16 by Hans Bonte to Article 2. (2050/14) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes [[45]] Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 134 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Vote on Amendment No 13 by Hans Bonte on Article 2. (2050/10) Vote on Amendment No. 1 3 by Hans Bonte in Article 2. (2050/10) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes [[45]] Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 136 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Vote on Amendment No 11 by Stéphane Crusnière cs on Article 2. (2050/10) Vote on Amendment No 11 by Stéphane Crusnière cs to Article 2. (2050/10) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 44 Yes No. 87 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 136 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Vote on Amendment No 17 by Hans Bonte on Article 2. (2050/14) Vote on amendment No 17 by Hans Bonte to Article 2. (2050/14) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes [[43]] Yes No. [[85]] No Abstentions 8 Abstensions Total 136 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Vote on Amendment No 14 by Hans Bonte on Article 2. (2050/10) Vote on amendment No 14 by Hans Bonte to Article 2. (2050/10) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes 44 Yes No. [[85]] No Abstentions 7 Abstensions Total 136 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Vote on Amendment No 15 by Olivier Maingain cs on Article 2. (2050/13) Vote on Amendment No 15 by Olivier Maingain cs to Article 2. (2050/13) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes 34 Yes No. 76 No Abstentions 25 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u136	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes 88 Yes No. [[47]] No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. (2050/15) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. (2050/15) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u137	Vote on Amendment No 7 by Hans Bonte on Article 2. (1473/12) Vote on amendment No 7 by Hans Bonte to Article 2. (1473/12) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 12) Yes 48 Yes No. 77 No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 136 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 5 by Olivier Maingain cs on Article 2. (1473/10) Vote on Amendment No 5 by Olivier Maingain cs to Article 2. (1473/10) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 13) Yes 51 Yes No. 77 No Abstentions 7 Abstensions Total 135 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 6 by Christian Brotcorne cs on article 2. (1473/10) Vote on Amendment No 6 by Christian Brotcorne cs to Article 2. (1473/10) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[55]] Yes No. 77 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u138	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 15) Yes 81 Yes No. [[47]] No Abstentions 8 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. (1473/13) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. (1473/13) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u139	Votes 130 Votants Blank or invalid [[16]] White or invalid Valid 114 Valables Perfect majority 58 Absolute majority Mr Wim François obtained 0 votes. Mr Wim François won 0 votes. Mr Marc Galle has won one vote. Mr. Marc Galle obtained 1 vote. Mr Jo Olivier obtained 0 votes. Mr Jo Olivier won 0 votes. Mr Vital Put has received 112 votes. Mr Vital Put won 112 votes. Mr Walter Schroons has won one vote. Mr Walter Schroons obtained one vote. Mrs Karin Staes has obtained 0 votes. Mrs Karin Staes won 0 votes. Mr Laurent Werbrouck obtained 0 votes. Mr Laurent Werbrouck obtained 0 votes. Since Mr Vital Put obtained 112 votes, this is the absolute majority, he was appointed councilor at the Court of Auditors (Dutch Chamber). Mr Vital Put, having obtained 112 votes, i.e. an absolute majority, was appointed an adviser to the Court of Auditors (Netherlands Chamber).
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-04-54-plenair-ip167x.u140	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 11 May 2017. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, 11 May 2017. I propose to add the secret vote on naturalizations, Nos 2429/1 and 2. I propose to add the vote on naturalization applications, Nos. 2429/1 and 2. Are you sure you don't mind? (No) Thus shall be done. No observation? (No) That will be the case. As a result, the agenda was adopted as amended. Accordingly, the agenda as amended was approved. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 11 May 2017 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 11 May 2017 at 2.15 p.m.
