ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic697x.u1	Mr Minister, it is about the interpretation of the concept of normal professional employment in the case of self-employed start-ups. Suppose a member of parliament or mayor who resigns and is not re-elected starts a self-employed activity where only the following year's demonstrable turnover is generated. In that case, can the year of termination of the political mandate and the start of an independent activity be regarded as a valid reference year within the meaning of Article 171 (5) (b)? Do you agree that, where appropriate, the taxable person concerned has remained effectively active and thus engaged in normal professional activities? Indeed, in the interpretation of the concept of "actively active' in pension legislation, periods in which the employee is involuntaryly unemployed but is nevertheless available to the labour market and actively seeking employment are treated as periods of activity. Do you consider it appropriate to pursue an equal treatment here, in other words, in the event of the cessation of a taxable person's activity, which de facto initiates an independent activity and can prove that he is actively looking for contracts and subsequently reaping the benefits of his activities started, also that such periods can be treated as periods of activity?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic697x.u2	Mr President, the year in which a political mandate is stopped, in order to start a self-employed activity, does not necessarily constitute a valid reference year. After all, the fact that the start-up of the self-employed activity would be purely a search for contracts does not mean that the self-employed activity is a normal professional activity. In order to assess whether or not this is a normal professional activity, consideration should be given to the whole year. Therefore, taking into account all factual circumstances, a valid reference year may still be present. As far as the concept of "actively active' is concerned, I do not think it is necessary to treat the situation of an unemployed person equally. In fact, it can be assumed that a self-employed person has remained effectively active until the statutory retirement age, when he was continuously affiliated to a social insurance fund during at least the three immediately preceding years and during that period has effectively and fully paid the social contributions due under the social status of the self-employed in the main occupation. However, the fact that the taxable person would have remained effectively active within the meaning of applying the favourable separate tax rate for supplementary pension capital does not necessarily imply that he had a normal professional activity in the meaning of applying the average rate of taxation for arrears.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic697x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for the written reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic697x.u4	Minister, I would like to ask you about the discussions that took place last Friday at the European Council on the tax on financial transactions (TTF) and the position taken by French President Emmanuel Macron. The latter stated in particular that the implementation of the TTF will not be possible until the uncertainties due to Brexit are resolved, which means no implementation of the TTF for at least two years. Minister, what is our government's position on Mr. Macron's remarks? However, does Belgium intend to call for further discussions in the working group with a view to resolving the current technical blockages? If so, has Belgium already been able to contact its partners? If so, can you elaborate on the position of each participant in the discussions on further work in the working group? In the event that Belgium has not yet contacted its partners, when does it intend to do so? Finally, it would appear that during the debate at the European Council, Mr Michel and the French President, Mr Macron, took a position in favour of the implementation of the TTF by expanding the number of participating States. Can you confirm this information and tell me more? In view of the lack of enthusiasm of other countries, is this not an attempt to block negotiations?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic697x.u5	During last Friday's European Council, there was indeed a discussion on the TTF. During this discussion, Mr Macron stated that he believes that the FTT file should be examined in the context of British access to the financial market, taking into account all the uncertainties that Brexit entails. On several occasions, this view has already been put on the table by different Member States which are also part of the Enhanced Cooperation, hence the ten countries of the group and, among other things, Germany which has already put the context of Brexit and the uncertainties on the table. It is therefore unjustified to accuse Belgium of bearing responsibility for the complicated advancement of this dossier, which has also been explicitly confirmed by the French President. As to whether Belgium intends to call for further discussions in the working group, with a view to resolving the current technical blockages, and whether Belgium has already been able to contact its partners, I can confirm that Belgium will remain engaged in these discussions. Indeed, there are still several contacts with the countries in the Group of Ten. It is my Austrian colleague who is currently the chairman of the TTF Group. It is therefore up to him to decide how the discussion will actually continue in the weeks and months to come. It is true, Mr Crusnière, that the Prime Minister and the French President have taken a position in favour of the implementation of the TTF, by expanding the number of participating states, but I think it can be said that there is nothing new in this regard. The larger the number of participating countries, the greater the likelihood of success of a tax such as the FTT.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic697x.u6	Thank you, Minister, for that clarification. Indeed, we feel that France is inclined to wait and link this with the discussions on Brexit. We still need to continue to move forward in the negotiations in order to try to solve technical problems. If progress can be made within two years, that would be interesting and it would perhaps already lead to a consensus among the ten in favour of the application of this tax. I remain convinced that this is a necessity. So let's not waste time. Let us continue to negotiate to mark and remove all technical problems so that, as soon as possible, possibly after the Brexit, this tax is implemented.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic697x.u7	Mr.President, Minister, the FPS Finance decided to anticipate the move of Waremme's contribution offices this year rather than the end of 2018. This move causes many challenges and concerns among the population. The result of this move will be to empty a whole territory of a community service indispensable to the population and to limit its accessibility. It is always the same people who are victims of this kind of relocation: pensioners, the most disadvantaged, and people who have difficulty moving by car. From now on, three buses will be needed to get to the FPS Finance office! That's not my idea of a local public service! According to our information, this office welcomes and advises 45,000 taxpayers, thus centralizing the population of 15 rural communes. We can hear the concern to rationalize not to maintain small offices of 3 or 4 FPS Finance members. However, Waremme's office is not in this configuration. Moreover, the haste in which this move is organized is difficult to understand. How can we propose alternatives to taxpayers if we are caught by surprise? Minister, where are these services relocated? Why so much haste? Why this lack of consultation and information?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic697x.u8	Mr Crusnière, the decision to leave Waremme was taken in consultation with the administrators of the services still present in this building largely underoccupied since the shift towards the new structure of the FPS Finances. The end of the lease on December 31, 2017 led to questions about the opportunity to stay one more year in this building. The cost per occupant, taking into account rent and operating costs, was calculated; it was clearly one of the highest in the current housing stock. Furthermore, the evolution of staff and the needs of line services indicate that consolidation of staff in larger centres is necessary in order to achieve better and more effective collaboration. Nevertheless, the service to citizens will not really be affected by this decision as the "individual" contribution service, which receives from the public, intends to organise a permanence in Waremme during the period of Tax-on-web, as in the other municipalities that have been abandoned in the past by the FPS Finance services.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic697x.u9	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic697x.u10	Mr. President, Minister, in late April the annual spring meetings of the IMF and the World Bank were held in Washington, D.C.. The emerging debt crisis for the countries of the South, among which Mozambique is the first concerned, was one of the main issues addressed. Indeed, in 2013, members of the Mozambican government illegally contracted loans on behalf of three state-owned companies worth $2 billion, illegality of which creditors were fully aware. After the government officially declared the lack of payment for these loans, the country finds itself in the grip of vulture funds. Belgium, which passed a law on 12 June 2015 to combat vulture funds, is a pioneer in this area. This law, in particular recommended by the United Nations, makes it possible to limit the reimbursement of vulture funds to the value of the debts they have redeemed. Minister, what position has Belgium taken at the IMF on the issue of this Mozambican debt? Does Belgium plead for a full audit of Mozambican debt, undertaken by Mozambicans independently of creditors, in order to repudiate all the illegal and illegitimate debts of the country?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic697x.u11	The total amount of illegal contracts concluded by the previous Mozambican government actually amounted to just over US$2 billion. In April 2016, the Mozambican authorities acknowledged that the State guarantee granted for loans granted had never been declared to the IMF, the World Bank or other international partners, which constituted a violation of the IMF's statutes. The IMF Board of Directors then decided not to validate the results Mozambique had achieved in the implementation of the Policy Support Instrument (PSI). Similarly, the Governing Council decided not to pay the second tranche of the IMF loan under Standby Credit Facility, which involved the effective cancellation of the loan. Our constituent supported these decisions in a joint declaration with the constituents of the United Kingdom, the Nordic countries, France and Germany. At the same time, Belgium supported measures taken by the authorities in the areas of debt management, improved governance and budgetary transparency. Our country also supported the IMF Executive Director's recommendation that no further corrective measures be imposed on the country. Tangible progress in implementing the measures was needed in order to restore confidence with international financial institutions and donor countries. In order to avoid recurrence of incorrect reporting, the Mozambican authorities took an initiative in November 2016 in close cooperation with the IMF to carry out an independent and legal audit of undeclared loans. This audit will be conducted under the direction of the Mozambican Attorney General and will be funded by the Swedish authorities. Belgium fully supports this international and independent audit.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic697x.u12	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic697x.u13	Minister, I would like to ask you about your meeting with the FPS Finance unions on the common front. The purpose of this meeting was the versatility imposed in many FPS Finance administrations. This versatility would be due to your personnel restriction policy and is contrary to the principles important for an effective public service such as training, experience and skills transfer. In addition, this multiplicity of services will most likely result in less success in several important areas. On 29 May, a first awareness-raising campaign was organized. The protestors' grievances are multiple: staff strengthening, the allocation of arms for customs officers engaged in the fight against terrorism, and finally this issue of versatility. Since then, negotiations with the trade unions have been initiated, but there seems to be a blockage on a specific point, namely the reinforcement of the workforce and the improvement of working conditions. Minister, a petition signed by many public servants working in the FPS has been handed over to you and several actions have been taken to ask you for an end to the versatility and urgent recruitment of reinforcements. Do you intend to take this into account and review your policy? Moreover, according to the unions, several promises made to staff in 2016 were not kept, including the additional recruitment of agents for controls and shift services for example. Do you intend to implement your promises in order to avoid future actions by finance staff?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic697x.u14	The main demands of the trade union organisations are multiple: one-on-one replacement for the control functions, versatility requested of the staff of the general tax administration, the granting of an allowance for the carrying of weapons to customs officers and a correction in the new financial career. I have met with representatives of representative trade union organisations on several occasions. The next meeting is scheduled for July 18. We are trying to find solutions together in a good social dialogue. As far as versatility is concerned, I can confirm that the original proposal has changed. The versatility as defined in this proposal will not be implemented. On July 18, we will have a discussion on how to achieve results for better service efficiency, with a certain versatility, but not the one requested in the foreground.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic697x.u15	Minister, thank you for your answer. I welcome this step backwards with regard to the versatility that has raised many concerns among finance staff, especially since the abolition of training centres, there have also been many questions in terms of the organisation and follow-up of these trainings. This is already a very interesting signal that will be given to FPS Finance staff. Once again, he stressed that attention should be paid to other requests, in particular for the increase of the framework and the replacement of one on one of the screening staff. Indeed, it is a highly motivated, high-quality staff who only ask to do their job properly. For this to happen, he must enjoy the best working conditions. I invite you to remain attentive to their demands.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic697x.u16	Mr President, Minister, I would like to ask you again about the third aid plan for Greece. An important meeting of euro area finance ministers took place on 20 February. European Commissioner Moscovici and an IMF representative have already visited Greece to convince the Tsipras government to reach agreement on the third aid plan as soon as possible. An agreement must be reached before July, it was said, and differences between Europeans and the IMF persist. According to the IMF, Europeans are too optimistic about the health of the Greek economy and overestimate Athens' ability to honour its debts in the medium term. Minister, could you do a debriefing of the Eurozone Finance Ministers' meeting on this issue? What is Belgium's position? There appears to be continuing disagreements between Europeans and the IMF. What about it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic697x.u17	Mr Crusnière, at the meeting on 15 June 2017, the Eurogroup did indeed discuss the sustainability of Greek debt, with the objective that Greece should regain market access at sustainable rates. Furthermore, it noted that the implementation of short-term debt measures already contributes to a substantial reduction in Greece's gross financing needs in the medium and long term and thus significantly improves the profile of its public debt. An analysis of the sustainability of Greek debt needs to be carried out by the European institutions in order to provide an up-to-date view of the evolution of Greek debt. In this regard, the Eurogroup recalled that this debt sustainability assessment should be carried out on the basis of the agreed benchmarks for gross financing requirements (less than 15% of GDP in the medium term and less than 20% of GDP thereafter), in order to ensure that debt continues to be on a sustainable downward path. The structural reforms implemented by the Greek Government are primarily aimed at making economic and financial structures more efficient and sustainable. The indirect corollary of these reforms will be to make Greek debt management more effective. The Eurogroup recalled that it is ready to implement, as necessary and in the medium term, a second set of debt measures to meet the targets for gross financing requirements, in accordance with its declaration of 25 May 2016. This includes the abolition of the additional interest rate margin for the debt repayment tranche of the second Greek programme, the use of SMP profits 2014, the restoration of the transfer of the equivalent of ANFA and SMP profits to Greece of the liabilities management operations within the current envelope of the ESM programme and the re-collation of the EFSF within the limits of the amounts authorised by the programme. The Eurogroup is ready to implement, without prejudice to the analysis of the sustainability of the final Greek debt, the extensions of the weighted average maturities and an additional carry forward of EFSF interest and depreciation over a period of zero to fifteen years.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic697x.u18	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic697x.u19	Minister, among the many players in the collaborative economy, the Heetch start-up is considered the social version – and at the service of the noctambules – of the Uber operator. Indeed, from the beginning of the evening to the dawn, this digital platform allows individuals to transport citizens, especially but without exception, young and old people who celebrate and want to return home quickly but especially safely. The development of this start-up has been a great success for the students, who do not have sufficient funds to pay for a taxi and who finish their activities, often festive, at times when public transport no longer circulates. Without extending the festive nature of student evenings, however, it must be made clear that for many parents it is a reassuring solution to the risks of alcohol consumption. In short, the Heetch start-up is popular and the Belgian market contributes fully to its success. In this regard, I believe that this operator would benefit from the new tax framework developed by the government to regularize the situation of users of digital platforms. For its part, the Brussels Region announced last April, with the voice of Minister Pascal Smet in charge of Mobility, that this start-up did not comply with the legislation relating to the paid transport of persons and should immediately cease its activities. Notwithstanding the strict respect for the competences of each level of power, we can nevertheless wonder about this contradiction between the federal government, which is working to regulate the collaborative economy and to place it at the heart of our competitiveness effort, and the Brussels Region, which is bridging these innovative initiatives. Minister, is close coordination between levels of government planned to prevent the ambitious framework for the collaborative economy adopted by the federal government from being limited by regional decisions? In particular with regard to the Heetch start-up, have you had the opportunity to meet with its managers and discuss possible solutions, obviously in direct synergy with the Brussels Minister responsible for Mobility?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic697x.u20	The start-up Heetch was actually approved by a royal decree of 26 April 2017, published in the Belgian Moniteur on 8 May 2017. It should be recalled that in taxation, the legality of an income has no impact on its taxable nature. The authorisation in question only regulates the tax fate of certain income received through this platform and the obligation to hold at source and to transmit information to the tax authorities. Accreditation therefore does not prejudge the conformity of the licensed platform with other federal or regional standards. It is the responsibility of the platform to ensure compliance with all applicable general and sectoral rules, if any, and the competent authority to take the necessary steps. Moreover, only the competent minister in the Brussels Region has so far spoken on this subject. It should therefore be recalled that the Heetch start-up could very well carry out its activities outside the Brussels Region and that the competent regional minister has, to my knowledge, only expressed his opinion on the Brussels regulations in force, without having adopted administrative measures or brought legal proceedings. As regards possible consultation with the federated entities on this subject, it is up to my colleagues in charge of the economy and/or the digital agenda to take such an initiative, with regard to a problem of regulating economic activities and not taxation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic697x.u21	Thank you for your answer, Minister. Indeed, as you can see, I have spoken of the Brussels Region, because it is essentially there that it is active, but it could, like other applications, extend to the other regions of the country. To the extent possible, it is important to maintain consistency between federal measures that give oxygen to a sector and those of the Brussels, Walloon or Flemish federated entities. As you suggest, I will also ask your colleagues, Deputy Prime Ministers De Croo and Peeters about this issue, in an attempt to make it clearer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic697x.u22	Mr. President, Minister, our country is a land of entrepreneurship for all those who want to embark on the great digital adventure. However, we are faced with the problem of the relocation of start-ups to other skies, due to financing needs for the development of their activities. Minister, sensitive to this situation, you have announced that the government is currently working on setting up a framework to facilitate the creation of private funds to finance investments in Belgian digital players. In this regard, I quote: "Measures have been taken for the starters who are starting. The figures show this: Belgium does not miss it. The problem is rather the second phase, when these start-ups seek to grow and show larger capital needs. The government is looking at this and the issue is expected to be resolved shortly. How can we encourage the formation of private funds, which are of sufficient size, able to meet this need for investment?" Clearly, I am very pleased that these issues are at the centre of your concerns and your clear will to bring concrete solutions to these actors. Minister, can you communicate to us the objectives pursued as part of the government-level reflection announced? Have specific guidelines already been adopted? What is the timetable for the implementation of this favourable framework for private investment? Finally, what is the state of consultation with the relevant sectoral representations?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic697x.u23	Mr Calomne, financing start-ups is an important issue for the government, whose will is to create a suitable legislative and regulatory environment, allowing innovative and dynamic companies to find the necessary financing for their creation and development. To this end, several measures have been taken since 2015. The programme law of 10 August 2015 provides for, for example, favourable tax measures for companies that start up and allow natural persons, investing in these start-up projects through crowdfunding platforms or investment funds, to benefit from a tax exemption. The law of 18 December 2016 organising the recognition and supervision of crowdfunding and laying down various financial provisions allowed the establishment of a framework determining the conditions for the authorisation and exercise of the activity of alternative financing platforms as well as the rules which these platforms and regulated companies must comply with when providing alternative financing services. Finally, the Royal Decree of 10 July 2016 on alternative collective investment undertakings investing in unlisted and growing companies aims to strengthen the financial structure and investment capacity of unlisted and growing young companies as well as the development of new activities or the technological renewal of existing activities and innovation. It also aims to ensure that investment by a collective investment body in a company contributes to the professionalisation of its management. More broadly, this royal decree is also intended to ensure the maintenance and creation of jobs in enterprises. In addition to these legislative and regulatory measures, the permanent consultation platform that I have set up to discuss the financial sector in Belgium has led to the creation this year of a working group entitled Growth Finance. This working group should make proposals by the end of the year on how we can improve the financing of our growing companies, i.e. those that have left the start-up phase. The capital available is sufficient. But the existing venture funds are often too small to make large investments (between EUR 10 million and EUR 50 million), as this endangers their risk diversification. In addition, we note the lack of institutional capital in the financing of growing companies, both pension funds and insurers. As far as the latter are concerned, the reason is to be found mainly in the strict solvency requirements. The working group is now considering how to ensure that these obstacles are removed, or at least reduced, and will make specific proposals in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic697x.u24	Minister, thank you for your encouraging answers to this question. I will wait for the proposals that will be made by this working group to come back to you. You have indicated that proposals could be made by the end of the year and by then we will certainly have an opportunity to discuss them again.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic697x.u25	Mr President, Minister, the Autorité des services et marchés financiers (FSMA) has recently published on its website a warning regarding fraudulent offers of investment in physical goods, such as rare earths or precious metals. These products are offered to the general public as alternative securities to savings products considered to be more traditional. These deceptions often take the form of direct calls or e-mails offering to invest in a material asset. Internet advertising is also possible. There are many other shades in these offers. Thus, for example, the proposals for subscriptions give rise to prospects for high returns, without mentioning the equally high risk of losses. Moreover, the market and prices announced are not clearly expressed. Finally, these proposals state that the goods in question will be kept in foreign warehouses, without any possibility for the investor to verify their actual existence. Faced with this problem, FSMA recalls that it unfortunately does not have any control over trade activities related to physical goods. However, if these offers are presented as tools for making a financial investment, they may fall within the scope of financial regulation and therefore fall within its competence. Unfortunately, there are many risks to investors. In most cases, they were misled about the value of the acquired property. They may also be unable to recover their initial bet. The only option is to lodge a complaint with the competent judicial authorities. Minister, what measures are being taken to combat this phenomenon? Are there any avenues for improvement? Could competent authorities in the area of commercial activities relating to physical goods also monitor such offers? Have you launched any ideas to better warn the investor public about the risks to which it is exposed? Is consultation with traditional players in the financial sector
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic697x.u26	Mr Calomne, trade in physical goods such as rare earths or precious metals is an economic activity. This activity is regulated by the Code of Economic Law and the Penal Code. The judicial authorities are responsible for monitoring violations of economic law. However, where physical goods are presented to the public in the form of investment instruments, these so-called alternative investment products may, under certain conditions, fall within the scope of the financial regulation which the FSMA monitors compliance with. In this case, the Prospectus Act provides, as a main rule, for the compulsory publication, in the form of a prospectus to be approved by the FSMA, of adequate and complete information on the investment instruments offered and on their issuer. FSMA recently noted an increase in fraudulent offers of investment in various physical goods and, as a result, published a warning on its website on 8 May 2017. In this warning, the FSMA provides information to help investors recognise cases of fraud and invites investors to report their suspicions of fraud either to the FSMA or to the judicial authorities which are the competent authorities in this field. On the basis of the information provided to it, if the FSMA finds that a company or a person subject to its control is involved in a fraudulent offer or that there are indications of a breach of financial regulations which the FSMA must ensure compliance with, the FSMA may take measures and, for example, forward the file to the Public Prosecutor's Office or publish a warning. Each year, FSMA publishes dozens of warnings about irregular calls to savings. There were 68 in 2016, 94 in 2015 and 59 in 2014.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic697x.u27	I thank the minister for his response.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic697x.u28	Questions No 18490, No 18491, No 18492 and No 18493 by Mr Benoît Piedboeuf are transformed into written questions. Questions Nos 18570 and 18571 by Mr Stefaan Vercamer are deleted because we have no news of their author. Question No 18644 by Mrs Kattrin Jadin is transformed into a written question. Questions No 18695 and No 18696 by Georges Gilkinet are transformed into written questions. Question No 18706 by Mrs Nele Lijnen is deleted, without news from the author.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic697x.u29	Minister, the economic importance of Flemish wine-growing continues to increase. It sounds a bit cynical, but climate warming is also at the root of this and the ageing of our vineyards. As a result, they offer more productivity and quality. Every year more and more lovers plant vineyards. Even important people in economic life are working on wine today. A lot of fruit farmers in Flanders have switched to wine after the Russian boycott on certain fruits. In addition, blind tastings show that our wines are top in terms of price and quality. Those wines are today supported by two appellations, namely the protected designations of origin or PDO and the protected geographical indications or PGI. Some top wines already enjoy the PDO, namely the Hageland wine, the Haspengouw wine, the Heuvelland wine and a number of sparkling wines. Let me give you an example. In 2016 we already had almost 70 000 litres of production for Haspengouw wine. However, there is a problem. In France excise duty rates of EUR 0.08 are applied, while in us EUR 0.65 for silent wines are applied to white and red wines in the jargon of wine and even EUR 2.09 for sparkling wines. Of course, this is not conducive to our local novice wine-grower. Is the decoupling of the wine trade and the wine producers in this case a piste to consider?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic697x.u30	In Belgium there is no differentiation of rates of excise duty on wine based on the origin of the wine, nor on the status of the person, in particular trader, producer, etc., who puts the wine into consumption in Belgium. This is in line with the provisions of Council Directive 92.84 of 19 October 1992 on the approximation of the rates of excise duty on alcohol and alcoholic beverages which lays down only minimum rates of excise duty on wine. Where a Belgian trader consumes French wines in Belgium, the rates of excise duty applied are exactly the same as when a Belgian producer consumes its wines in Belgium. That's what you said earlier. There is currently no provision for a decoupling or differentiation. As far as I'm concerned, it could be on the table. We just need to take due account of what Europe allows or does not allow in this area. You refer to the example of France. If we want to do something about this, we must first ensure that our considerations are in line with European regulations. For the rest, the areas you are quoting are also very close to my heart as a cyclist.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic697x.u31	Thank you for your answer and for the intention to look at this further.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic697x.u32	Minister, as of January 1, 2017, the base rate for the household discount is 30% of gross income. An increase of up to 35% was mentioned for the corporate tax reform. However, there are reduced rates of application depending on the type of income. In addition, several discount rates are also in effect today. While the household prepayment is a tax that is found in several countries, many investors complain about its duplication with any other foreign prepayment. According to several shareholders in our major groups, Belgian companies whose securities are listed on the stock exchange would pay the discount twice: for the first time in the country where their head office is located and for the second time in Belgium. This situation would therefore weaken our attractiveness. Is the situation of double taxation for some companies exceptional? Have your services taken this into consideration? Are any adjustments possible? Is consideration being given to changing this situation? What measures, if any, are planned to remedy this situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic697x.u33	With regard to the taxation of cross-border dividends, Belgium follows the principle of shared tax jurisdiction, which is also followed in the OECD and UN Model International Conventions. This means that dividends can be taxed, both in the State from which they originate and in the State of residence of the beneficiary. The Belgian double taxation preventive conventions generally provide for a general limitation of withholding tax and an exemption from withholding tax for large equity dividends. In order to avoid double taxation on dividends in the beneficiary's State of residence, the Belgian double taxation preventive conventions refer to the provisions in force in national law. Currently, Belgian domestic law does not provide for the possibility of imputation of withholding tax on dividends to Belgian tax on such income. The only exception to this rule concerns dividends granted by investment companies. The introduction of the extended imputation of foreign withholding tax on dividends will undoubtedly have a significant negative budgetary impact.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic697x.u34	Thank you for that answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic697x.u35	Question No 18750 by Mr Kristof Calvo was withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic697x.u36	Mr Minister, the Socio-Epidemiological Monitoring Centre for Alcohol and Drugs in Wallonia and Brussels, Eurotox, drew the alarm about the emergence and circulation in our country of a new substance known as ‘zombie drug'. The latter would be a synthetic cannabis with a clear high risk of rapid overdose that can lead to aggressive behaviour, delusions and hallucinatory attacks, which can obviously endanger consumers as well as their loved ones. It would appear that the ‘zombie drug' traffic is mainly organised on the internet and that Bierset airport could be a transit point for these narcotics. Mr Minister, have the customs services been informed of the problem and of a possible increase in traffic via our airports? What measures are being taken to stop imports of ‘zombie drug'? Do you have data on the countries in which the products are sent? Finally, what synergies are provided for in this dossier with your colleague in charge of Security and Home Affairs, Deputy Prime Minister Jambon?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic697x.u37	Mr Calomne, since 2012, the problem of all new psychoactive substances has been given special attention by customs – whether or not these substances are regulated – given that the dangers of these substances to human health are very serious. A very large number of these substances are ordered on websites and transported by express parcel companies via air freight. This explains why Liège-Bierset Airport is a transit point for this kind of goods. The problem of the ‘zombie drug' is therefore to be placed in this wider context. The zombie drug is THJ-2201, according to Eurotox's alert. A shipment of THJ-2201 was intercepted by Bierset customs in July 2014, but it was not intended for Belgium and the substance was not yet prohibited by Belgian legislation at that time. It is therefore not really a new substance and customs has not intercepted it since then, although new psychoactive substances as a whole are the subject of a very special attention by customs, whether or not they are specifically covered by the legislation on narcotics. This substance is now prohibited by the Royal Decree of 2015, which has made it lose its appeal to traffickers. This could in part explain the fact that it is no longer intercepted in Bierset, since traffickers specializing in these substances tend to follow developments in legislation by changing the composition of their product in order to escape prosecution. In conclusion, as far as Liège-Bierset airport is concerned, since 2012, the customs authorities have been highly aware of the problem of new psychoactive substances in general, whether regulated or not, and the more specific one of zombie drugs, with the references I have already mentioned. As regards zombie drug THJ-2201 in particular, customs did not see the increase in trafficking, on the contrary. For new psychoactive substances in general, intercepted quantities increased steadily from 2012 to 2015. The phenomenon appears to be stabilized, probably due to various legislative strengthenings in a number of recipient countries and increased controls in countries where these substances are most often produced. The measures currently being implemented are those for new psychoactive substances in general, given that many other new psychoactive substances pose very high risks to human health. Moreover, it is practically impossible to distinguish zombie drugs from other psychoactive substances. These measures consist of specifically targeted risk analyses, physical controls and targeted operations in international collaborations, such as the World Customs Organisation and Europol. With regard to the countries of dispatch of products, these are mainly Asian countries. Finally, we would like to point out that this problem has been the subject of excellent cooperation with the judicial authorities and the police services concerned since its inception.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic697x.u38	Minister, thank you for your answers. I started from the concrete case of zombie drugs but the field is wider and applies to all substances since we see that traffickers are creative and follow the evolution of legislation to adapt their behaviour. I thank you for addressing this broader framework, which complements the information we have in our possession and which is very useful in relation to this issue of the trafficking of new drugs in or via our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic697x.u39	Minister, I am reminded that the FPS Finance and Defence Services have concluded an agreement on the use of military drones from Unit 80, based in Florennes, for customs surveillance missions. In concrete terms, B-Hunter aircraft could be mobilised at the request of the regional customs centre in Mons to carry out reconnaissance missions to combat cross-border trafficking. This is a win-win partnership, as the customs services will be equipped with a fast, efficient and discreet tool to control the 140 crossing points spread over the 400 kilometres of common border with France. In addition, for military personnel, these operations will save hours of flying required for training. At the outset, Mr Minister, allow me to welcome the synergies mentioned and to welcome a pragmatic but also ambitious measure. However, in order to complete my information, I would like to ask you the following questions: Could you provide us with more details on the terms of the agreement between the FPS Finance and Defence Services? What exactly is planned at the operational level and how long is this partnership going? What types of traffic are targeted by the use of drones? Finally, is it planned to use drones on other operating grounds in our country? I am thinking in particular of maritime traffic or other land borders.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic697x.u40	Defence supports customs without replacing it. Support shall not prejudice the performance of the legal tasks of the parties and shall be granted only within the limits of the means available. Support shall be provided to the extent possible by each party, taking into account its own missions and the risks it intends to bear. Each party remains responsible for the engagement of its own staff, its equipment and, of course, its infrastructure. Defence assistance may consist of the provision of equipment, specialized teams, personnel and infrastructure. To this end, a programme of planned operations for the following year will be established annually, as well as a training and training programme. However, unplanned but urgent operations are also covered by this Memorandum of Understanding. This Memorandum of Understanding replaces that concluded by the Parties on 12 June 2006, with the same title. The Protocol entered into force on 17 May 2017 and was established for an indefinite period. The trafficking targeted is mainly drugs, excises and weapons. The use of drones is planned for the whole Belgian territory.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic697x.u41	Thank you for your answer, Minister. We can only welcome the pragmatic partnership between different federal departments, which enables us to meet their different objectives. Everyone wins, and I can only encourage such initiatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic697x.u42	Debates of the European Parliament 18791 by Mrs Griet Smaers is postponed. Question No 54, by Mr De Pasquale 18806 and No. Mr Vanvelthoven's 18807 are deleted.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic697x.u43	Mr President, Mr Minister, my question has lost some of its topicality, but once it has been announced, it should be asked, especially since it concerns a subject which requires substantive reflection. It is recalled that a draft royal decree was prepared to reflect the recommendations of the National Bank concerning the extension of the capital requirements of banks for mortgage loans and, above all, the strengthening of the capital standards for loans with a borrowing ratio exceeding 80% of the value of the property. Mr. Minister, you will recall that I asked you in plenary, which has given rise to a number of reactions. At the time, the government was considering aligning itself with the positions of the National Bank. Time passed and the royal decree did not come into being. The government felt embarrassed because the position of the National Bank had an impact in terms of access to property. My question was to clarify your position. Since then, we have learned that the National Bank has been in charge of a risk analysis and that it will be produced in the fall, but, unless I am mistaken, the Governor has spoken but not you. In this case, the matter is of great interest. Minister, what is your position on this, even if I imagine that you will wait until the end of the analysis to say more? However, what objects will it actually carry on? How do you envisage the continuation of this debate?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic697x.u44	Mr Dispa, the measures proposed by the macroprudential authority – in this case the National Bank – are preventive and aim to strengthen the financial stability of Belgium and, consequently, that of the real estate sector, which, as we know, is an important component of this financial stability. The Government, which must take into account several elements in its reflection, has decided to remain cautious in adopting new measures and has therefore decided to maintain the previous measures and to request the National Bank to re-analyse the situation of the real estate market and its impact on the country's financial stability. The Government will carefully consider the results of this analysis expected in the fall.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic697x.u45	Minister, I am pleased that the emolument generated by the announcement of the National Bank has finally prompted further reflection. At the CDH, we had made a strong statement: we had even released a statement saying, "With the MR, it's now House Denied!" Now we wouldn't dare write things like that anymore! The essential thing is that the discussion can resume. Minister, I agree with you. There are, of course, several parameters that need to be taken into account: the health of the financial sector, the evolution of the real estate sector, the problem of over-indebtedness, but also access to property. It is this set of parameters that needs to be analysed and I have no doubt that we will have the opportunity to come back to the subject once the National Bank has completed the analysis that you have entrusted to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic697x.u46	Debates of the European Parliament 18834 by Mrs Smaers was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic697x.u47	That question was dealt with yesterday.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic697x.u48	Mr President, I should like to put my question. In accordance with the law of 18 December 2016 regulating the recognition of crowdfunding, crowdfunding platforms have the possibility to structure the investment through a financing vehicle. However, the amendment of Article 145, 26 WIB '92 could lead to the conclusion that investments in micro-enterprises through such a financing vehicle can only benefit from a tax reduction of 30%. That seems to me to be an inaccuracies and, in my view, was in no way the intention. In fact, the preparatory work and the explanatory memorandum of the above Act stated that the tax reduction is equal to 30% and, where appropriate, increases to 45% of the amount to be taken into account after deduction of the fees paid to intermediaries in the context of their intermediary role and any other related costs. Do you agree that this is an inaccuracies and that it is by no means the intention of the government?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic697x.u49	Mr Van Biesen, in adapting Article 145 of the Income Tax Code '92 by the Law of 18 December 2016, an additional possibility of investing was provided for through the purchase of units of a financing vehicle. Such a financing vehicle acts as a non-discretionary intermediary, which is therefore close to the situation of buying shares from a starting company itself. However, Article 145 (3) of the same Code, which provides for an increased rate of tax relief of 45%, was not amended to take account of that new possibility of investment. The problem was known to me and a solution to it is already the subject of a draft law containing various provisions, which was adopted at first reading by the Council of Ministers on 22 June 2017, last week.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic697x.u50	The provision will therefore be amended. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic697x.u51	Minister, I would like to obtain technical and objective information. It is known that a donation to an organization can be tax valued: a tax reduction of 45% of the amount of the donation is granted subject to a few conditions, including that of being made to approved organizations. The Samusocial receives this approval according to the directory available on the FPS Finance website. Persons who have made a donation to Samusocial are therefore entitled to this tax benefit for a minimum donation of 40 euros. Do you have any data on donations made to Samusocial? Is it possible to know, through tax certificates, how many donations have been made to the Samusocial in recent years and for what amounts? What is the total amount of donations that could result in a tax reduction? What was the amount of the tax benefit for the donor, and the loss of profits for the state?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic697x.u52	The information requested relates directly or indirectly to the tax record of a specified taxpayer or specified taxpayers. The express provisions on professional secrecy therefore do not allow me to give you this information. On the other hand, it is possible to consult the annual accounts of this ASBL as deposited with the National Bank of Belgium and to see the amounts of the donations made.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic697x.u53	Satisfactory response?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic697x.u54	Not really. Of course, I did not ask for specific information that violated the secrecy to which donors are entitled. But it seems to me that, on an aggregate basis, your services could have provided information on the overall amounts that were tax reduced. We can indeed consult the accounts of the association concerned, but this is a problem as you know. I would have hoped for more clarification. I will restate the question differently.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic697x.u55	Minister, after a first conviction in 2013, Europe once again condemned the Belgian savings account. However, an amendment had been made, but it did not seem sufficient to bring the scheme into line with European law. The Court of Justice of the European Union reiterates that the tax advantage in the form of an exemption from the withholding tax on Belgian livrets still constitutes an obstacle to the principle of freedom to provide services provided for in the European Treaties. In a judgment delivered at the beginning of June, the Court of Justice held that the Belgian method of remuneration for savings deposits is a special feature of the Belgian banking market. It concludes that this is a violation of European law. The structure of remuneration in the form of a basic rate and a loyalty premium for Belgian savings accounts is covered, as foreign banks cannot offer Belgian clients investments benefiting from the tax exemption. If the legislation is not amended, the European Commission could initiate infringement proceedings. This ruling will also have significant budgetary consequences, since individuals could claim the withholding tax levied abroad. Let us recall that the High Level Expert Group's report on the future of the Belgian financial sector, produced at your request, issued a radical proposal on this point, namely the pure and simple removal of the tax advantage. Minister, what are your intentions? How will you respond to this judgment, when a conviction seems close? Are you considering reviewing the taxation of savings? If this tax advantage is maintained, how can it be justified? If it is removed, what will be the consequences for Belgian savers? Do you intend to compensate them if necessary? How much is the estimated amount that could be claimed?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic697x.u56	My services are currently analysing the decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 8 June. Of course, I await their conclusions before taking appropriate action. However, it is not entirely correct to say that Europe condemned the Belgian savings account, since the Court of Justice of the European Union simply considered that our system was likely to violate European law, not that it was indeed the case. She therefore preferred to refer the case back to the Belgian judges.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic697x.u57	Minister, thank you for your answer. It is true that a formal conviction has not yet been handed down. However, we feel that Europe is putting pressure on our tax system of savings accounts. I understand that an in-depth analysis of the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union must be carried out. Once it has been completed, I may allow myself to ask you again, because it is an essential issue for the beneficiaries of savings accounts and for the legal certainty of our banking system.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic697x.u58	Mr President, this question has already been tabled at the end of May. Sheets 281.50 must be submitted by 30 June at the latest. There is a lot of confusion in the hospital sector about the preparation of individual sheets 281.50 for fees paid to doctors, who have united themselves for their hospital services in an association or association without legal personality. There is often an individual agreement between the doctor and the hospital which states that the hospital wishes to avail itself of the services of the doctor. In the same agreement or in an annex it is then agreed that the hospital pays the fee to which the doctor is entitled into the bank account of the partnership or association of which the doctor is a member. Within the partnership or association, the pooled fees are then distributed according to an agreed distribution key. The hospitals wish to respect the tax rules regarding the liability of the remuneration paid, so that they are not confronted with the particular attack of Art. 219, the so-called secret commissions. However, the relevant legal provisions are not clear, so the following questions arise. Should the hospital prepare the individual sheet in the name of the doctor, indicating the fees to which his hospital services are entitled? Is that the only correct method? In that case, is there not a risk that the remuneration shown on the sheet may differ from the taxable income allocated to the doctor, on the basis of his association contract or the statutes of his membership? Does the method not involve the risk of unnecessary discussions, because the amount on the sheet differs from the taxable income mentioned by the doctor in his personal report? Should the hospital draw up the individual sheet in the name of the doctor representing the partnership or association, stating all the fees paid to the bank account of the partnership or association? Is there no risk of a tax officer initially assuming that the amount indicated on the sheet is to be regarded as taxable income of the doctor concerned, with possible unnecessary discussions as a result? With respect for the legal provisions, can it not be assumed for pragmatic reasons that the hospital fulfils its responsibility if it prepares a sheet in accordance with the financial flow of the funds? This means that the sheet is drawn up in the name of the association or association, with an indication of its representative - a doctor-natural person or a company - and indicating all payments made in the bank account of the partnership or association? The accounts of membership or association shall ensure that the revenue taxable by the members of the association or association is checked. An association or membership of doctors should not in all cases register as a VAT taxpayer and therefore does not have a CBO registration number. Can you confirm that in that case the absence of that number on the sheet 281.50 does not affect the accuracy of the sheet? It is a rather technical question, but it is asked following numerous checks carried out by the Special Tax Inspectorate at hospitals in May and June. That is why I would like a clear answer on the difficult issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic697x.u59	Mr Van Biesen, the amounts paid as honorary wages for the transferee's professional income can only be assumed as professional costs if they are accounted for by individual sheets and a summary report. In this respect, the notice to the debtors of commissions, brokers' wages, etc. available on Fisconetplus clarifies that the name and first name of the transferee must be given on the sheet 281.50 and the summary statement 325.50. The 1992 Income Tax Code also provides that the inclusion of members of the association without legal personality and their share in the distributed or undivided profits or income of that association is taxable as profits or income of those members. That is the application of the principle of transparency. In principle, therefore, a sheet in the name of each member of that association must be drawn up with his or her share of the income. If, in spite of everything, the sheets 281.50 and the summary statement 325.50 have been drawn up in the name of the actual association or of a representative of such an association and the administration fails to identify the data needed to identify the recipient of the sums paid, within the time limits available to it to tax the latter, those amounts shall not be deductible as professional costs, without prejudice to the possible application of a separate assessment.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic697x.u60	Minister, the answer is a little too general to solve this particular problem. So there's a difference. Doctors work under associations or boards. Several doctors can work under one partnership. In the end, however, the chips are individually made in the name of the doctor. That is where the problem lies, because the partnership creates new sheets containing the doctor's income and taxable income. However, the chips are made here on the basis of the performance that comes in a global pot of association, which is different. The tax authorities check the hospital sheet 281.50 with the actual taxable income and there are great differences, because everything comes into an association and is then divided into the association. That's what we're talking about here. What is compared by the BBI are the documents that have to be accounted for every time a doctor's company is reported. It must then be possible to show what the sheet corresponds to. So this is a more specific problem than the general explanation you give. Can you look at that with your records?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic697x.u61	(...) that the individual sheets.... I will not repeat the references..... are not available. They're here, but there's a discrepancy between that chip and other.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic697x.u62	There's a big discrepancy between them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic697x.u63	I'll be in touch.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic697x.u64	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Lambrecht's 18930 will be converted into a written question. Questions Nos 18957 and 18958 by Mrs Jadin are postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Piedboeuf's 18993 question was converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Degroote's 19003 will be converted into a written question. Merged Questions No. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Vanvelthoven's 19325 were deleted because of no news. Debates of the European Parliament 19050 by Mrs Lanjri will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Dierick's 19119 question is converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Flahaux's 19151 was deleted because of no news.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic697x.u65	Minister, since 2009, FPS Finance has had an effective tool in the head of the Fin Shop store to sell items that have been seized by federal agencies, parcels that are not recovered by bpost users, decommissioned equipment from administrative services, or real property belonging to the public community. It must be said that the figures are impressive, since in 2016, a turnover of €3.8 million was achieved and there have already been 37 special sales organised for 2017. At the outset, Minister, allow me to welcome these good results and to acknowledge the meritorious work of the FPS Finance staff. However, I would like to have more information on the development of this tool, and that is why I would like to ask you the following questions. Can you confirm the opening of two new stores and the extension of the Fin Shop network? If so, what are the target sites? How will the distribution of sales between sites be organised in practice and the necessary complementarities at the level of the respective activities? Are additional human and material resources provided for the opening of these stores? Are supplementary budgets reserved? Finally, could you remind us of the strategy that was adopted for 2017 with regard to Internet sales?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic697x.u66	Mr Calomne, in addition to the Fin Shop in Brussels, two new Fin Shop stores were created, one in Bornem and the other in Gembloux. The distribution of sales is based on the location of the goods, but it is not excluded to divide them between the three Fin Shops, in particular in the case of the sale of a large quantity of the same type of goods. As a first step, no specific human resources reinforcements are planned. As far as material resources are concerned, the two new centres have obviously been equipped with adequate equipment such as shelves, clarks, pallet trucks, etc. The necessary budgets have been allocated to these purchases. Fin Shop stores recently have a brand new finshop.belgium.be website dedicated exclusively to them. This website is divided into three main parts: the online auction, the online shop and the announcement of the various public sales.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic697x.u67	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic697x.u68	This question is raised as a question from Mr De Vriendt, but is a question from Mr Raskin.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic697x.u69	Mr President, Minister, this country is the leader in the field of posting. According to a recent study by the HIVA, called "the extent and impact of intra-EU posting on the Belgian economy," 4,4% of employment in this country is taken by posted workers from abroad. However, we do not know much about those seconded. Every employee and self-employed person who is posted to this country must be notified through the Limosa system. Limosa today collects a number of data, although it is limited, on the number of foreign workers and self-employed workers posted to this country. That system was built from the social security perspective. Posters may continue to pay their social contributions in the State of temporary employment for two years. This is quite different from the tax system. There is the 183 day rule, which states that a foreign worker is liable to tax here if he stays in that country for more than 183 days. For many years now we have been organizing an improved cooperation and information flow between the tax authorities and the RSZ. Such cooperation could be particularly useful to gain more control over the phenomenon of posting and to speed up the detection of abuses. The above-mentioned HIVA study also points to this. Minister, how do you view the idea of automatic cross-checking of the data of the tax authorities and the RSZ with a view to more efficient control and handling of the abuse of posting? Will you take steps to this end? If steps have already been taken, when do you expect results? Can you tell us what will happen? How will this further optimize the operation of your services?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic697x.u70	Mr Raskin, in my policy paper of December 2015, I have already made it clear that greater fiscal justice is absolutely necessary and desirable. Combating fraud requires a multidisciplinary and transversal approach. This implies, by definition, the involvement of all the services and institutions involved in the fight against fraud in the wider sense of the word. More specifically, the fraud plan mentioned that there are citizens and businesses whose tax authorities do not even know they exist and that measures will be taken to get them on the tax radar. In an open economy like ours, countless foreign workers are at work who, although working here, remain dominating abroad. I can tell you that the necessary steps have been taken in the meantime to exchange Limosa's useful data and that this project of exchange is in full implementation. As part of its selection policy, which is largely based on risk management, the tax administration will exploit the information for tax purposes, including for the possible taxation of posted workers if they exceed the 183 days per year rule. In the future, the data flow between, for example, the RSZ and the tax authorities will be further improved, so that further useful data on these problems can be gathered from the intersection of these databases.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic697x.u71	Minister, I in turn confirm that my concern is in line with your recent policy paper. A multidisciplinary and transversal approach is needed. It is good to hear that steps have been taken to exchange the data we get through Limosa, and not just for the tax authorities, who can tax posted workers who work here for more than 183 days. I would also like to take this opportunity to point out that it is not unwise to work with a reverse burden of proof and to provide a type of template on which foreign workers have to fill in some data. These data are then accessible not only to the tax authorities but also to an audit service of the RSZ. For example, the control of posted workers, which is difficult today because of the frequent collision of European walls and regulations, can be greatly facilitated by the ability of the RSZ to look over the shoulder of the tax authorities. For example, it has access to more information, which will reduce the abuse of a good principle as a posting. This is absolutely necessary in order to avoid that good principle being called into question more and more by some, which is completely understandable. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic697x.u72	I propose that we now ask Question No Mr Van Biesen. - (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking Mr Van Biesen for his excellent report. Mr Calomne. Then we give the opportunity to Mr Klaps and Mrs Smaers to put their combined questions Nos 19194 and 19255. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Debates of the European Parliament 19177 by Mrs Leen Dierick has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic697x.u73	Mr Minister, on the basis of the Circular 2017/C/31 of 18 May 2017, the tax-free allowances will no longer automatically be granted to the spouse or wife with the highest income, if they are partially exempted. Two calculations will be made, namely for partner A surcharges and partner B surcharges. To the benefit of the taxpayer, the calculation will continue with the calculation where the total principal amount is the lowest. In the present case, there are cases where that new method of calculation is more unfavourable at the end. On the basis of the new double calculation, the tax-free allowance is granted to partner B with the lowest but not exempted income. However, this means that partner B can no longer benefit from the tax relief for, for example, pension savings. As a result, tax refunds are lower than those granted to the spouse or wife with the highest but partly exempt income. The circular now states that the assessment of the most advantageous calculation is done at the level of the total principal. This is the sum of the personal income tax on the individual taxable income and the personal income tax on the joint taxable income after applying the tax-free sum, the tax reduction for pensions and replacement income and the tax reduction for income from abroad. My question is this. Can you inform me of the position taken by the FPS Finance in relation to the proposed method of calculation, when it is unfavourable?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic697x.u74	Mr Van Biesen, an administrative arrangement was drawn up for the 2017 attack year. The scheme means that two calculations are carried out, i.e. a calculation where the allowances on the tax-free sum for family expenses are charged to the spouse or partner with the highest taxable income and a calculation where the supplements are calculated from the spouse or partner with the lowest available income. Both calculations are compared. The calculation which is the most advantageous for the taxpayer shall be applied effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic697x.u75	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic697x.u76	Mr Minister, the Brussels government has adopted a new decree which, as part of the next business travel plans (BDPs), provides for the creation of an offer of compulsory mobility choices for economic actors with more than 100 employees, with a cart at least equivalent to 10 company cars. In concrete terms, from 1 January 2018 onwards, the companies concerned will have to offer several possibilities to their employees, i.e. either a conventional leasing vehicle, a cheaper vehicle supplemented by a company bike or a public transport subscription, or a "mobility package" covering various types of transport, including carpooling, self-service bicycles or taxi cheques. Clearly, the regional executive seems to be in a hurry or even hastened to move forward on this issue, as companies would have until the end of June to define a diagnosis of mobility and to propose, by the end of the year, a draft action plan for the public services concerned. This announcement was a great surprise, especially for companies, since BECI, the Brussels employers' federation, discovered the content of this project in the press. This was also a surprise for parliamentarians, given the efforts already being made at the federal level to reform the supply of company cars. So, Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions. Have you ever been informed of this draft regulation on business travel plans? How do you view its content in terms of the federal government's objectives to encourage alternatives to corporate cars? Do you see any sources of barriers or complementarity between regional and federal options? Have you decided to bring this matter to the next meeting of the concertation committee? Finally, can you provide us with an update on the ongoing negotiations on the tax reform of corporate cars?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic697x.u77	The Order of the Government of the Brussels-Capital Region of 1 June 2017 on the business plan and published at the Moniteur on 9 June 2017, develops its own objectives but does not seem to be an obstacle to those of the federal government in terms of mobility. As work continues at the federal level, there are currently no plans to submit this file to the consultation committee. As regards the progress of work to allow workers who so wish to exchange their company car for a mobility allowance, I can inform you that a first in-depth analysis has taken place on the basis of a project presented by SD Worx. A working group composed of representatives of the various ministers and administrations concerned has already met on several occasions. Great progress has been made, but a number of technical aspects still need to be clarified before a draft law can be submitted to the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic697x.u78	Minister, thank you. I will, of course, keep an eye on the development of this issue, especially when you have introduced your bill in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-commissie-ic697x.u79	Questions Nos 19194 by Mrs Smaers and 19255 by Mr Johan Klaps will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament 19197 of the Johan Klaps is also converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament 19218 of Nele Lijnen is postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Pivin's 19296 was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament 19304 by Mrs Grovonius will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jadin's 19309 will be converted into a written question. We have no news from Mr Vanvelthoven. His question No. 19322 is deleted. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Pas (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Debates of the European Parliament Mr de Lamotte's 19399 was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Gilkinet's 19415 question was converted into a written question. We have no news from Mrs Van Hoof. Her question No. 19483 is deleted. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vanvelthoven's 19488 was deleted. Questions Nos 19489 and 19560 by Mr Vanvelthoven and Mr Gilkinet are converted into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vanvelthoven's 19490 was deleted. Debates of the European Parliament 19493 by Mrs Fabienne Winckel will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Konrad Degroote's 19509 will be converted into a written question. We have no news from Mr Van de Velde. His question No. 19515 is deleted. Mr Gilkinet's combined questions Nos 19558 and 19559 have been converted into written questions. We have no news from Mr Kir. His question No. 19581 is deleted. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jadin's 19590 is deleted. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Lanjri's 19610 question was converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament 19170 by Mrs Jadin will be converted into a written question.
