ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic662x.u1	Mr President, Minister, I would like to come back with you to the issue of community policing. Indeed, one year after the attacks in Brussels and while the terrorist threat still weighs on our country, it must be noted that things have not really changed on the ground. For example, in the town of Forest, the local police have almost disappeared. This situation is quite surprising when you know that the local police, constantly on the ground, can be very useful in clearing a possible safe house or preventing abnormal behaviour in the neighborhood. In addition, in order for the community police to function properly, a royal decree provides for a neighbourhood officer for every 4,000 inhabitants. Yet, in some areas of the police, we are far from the point of view. In addition, your Canal plan allows police from other areas to come into areas that need reinforcement. But these policemen are not here to stay and rightly want to go back to their real area. The focus should therefore be on hiring new local police officers, who know their neighbourhood and area perfectly and are thus able to react to an abnormal situation. Unfortunately and as always the means do not follow. Minister, these are my questions. How can the lack of neighbourhood inspectors in some police areas be addressed? How many police areas do not have a neighbourhood officer for every 4,000 inhabitants? How do you encourage new police officers to become neighbourhood inspectors? Once the police officers have been deployed through the Canal Plan to their home town, how do you plan to fill the growing shortage of police personnel?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic662x.u2	Mr President, Mrs Ben Hamou, the responsibility to organize her police force and to provide the necessary staff in the seven basic features is a local competence provided for by law. I can only repeat the importance of community-oriented policing and community policing. This is reflected in the various functions within the police and, more particularly, in the function of the neighbourhood officer. The monitoring of minimum standards is carried out through various tools in the specific supervision, the zonal security plan and the evaluation of the mandate of head of corps. Through these different mechanisms, there is no provision for systematic monitoring at the federal level. Proximity work is an integral part of the police profession and is not an exclusive part of the neighbourhood agent, even if its role is indispensable in the proper functioning of a police force. Integrated police officers are trained and sensitized, during their basic training, on community-oriented police principles and practices. In addition, various police services, in addition to neighbourhood officers, receive a community allowance. This means that, in their work, they must pay particular attention to this aspect. Based on local police morphology figures of 31 December 2015 – figures for 2016 are not yet available – 22 out of 189 police areas did not meet the standard of one neighbourhood officer per 4,000 inhabitants. This corresponds to 12% of police areas: 2 in Wallonia, 2 at the level of the Brussels-Capital Region, 18 in Flanders. Data from 9 zones were not transmitted and therefore could not be recorded. We can provide you with a table by police area. In 2016, I obtained an additional budget for the federal police to recruit staff for the Canal Plan. This plan aims to strengthen the federal police in the areas bordering the Charleroi-Brussels-Willebroek Canal, namely the areas of Brussels-West, Brussels-Midi, Brussels-Capital/Ixelles, Brussels-North and Vilvorde. In order to be able to set up the Canal plan very quickly, I asked the Federal Police to temporarily appoint 140 inspectors from the general reserve to the Brussels (120) and Hal-Vilvorde (20) intervention forces in two tranches (February and September 2016). Meanwhile, the federal police recruited 140 inspectors specifically for the Canal Plan. I promised that as early as May 2, there would be dedicated police officers, i.e. not as part of a mobility plan, for the following years. These inspectors completed their training on May 1, 2017 and replace the inspectors of the general reserve. They are integrated for a few years into the Canal Plan. At the recruitment level, the need for police officers is requested annually from the local police areas. Based on these needs, we will hire 1,400 police officers each year, after the 1,600 hired in 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic662x.u3	Minister, thank you for your answers. We had a bill to offer a bonus to neighbourhood inspectors, but it was rejected by the majority. You mentioned it in your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic662x.u4	That exists.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic662x.u5	Neighbourhood inspectors do not currently have a bonus. We made a proposal...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic662x.u6	I don't agree. We have a proximity bonus. It's planned.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic662x.u7	You know very well that the neighborhood inspector is the poor relative of the police. I think there was an opportunity to attract staff to this function, but the majority did not accept it. As I have already told you during the presentation of your general policy note, there is a staggering shortage of personnel to carry out police missions and neighbourhood inspectors are being requisitioned to carry out repression while their main mission is to do prevention. Therefore, there is a break with the citizens. They do not understand why, overnight, their neighbourhood inspector begins to crack down, while his main mission was prevention. Above all, it takes years to connect with the people of his neighbourhood and create a climate of trust. I hear you're trying to find solutions and there's commitment, but the solutions need to get there as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic662x.u8	Minister, the threat of terror still puts the pressure on local police areas at a relatively high level. On the coast, this pressure is increasing because many cases of aggression and nuisance have been caused by transmigrants. Even though the latest figures show that the number of transmigrants remains very specific in Zeebrugge, in March there were twice as many reports of nuisances as in the same period last year. In addition, the tourist season starts for which local patrols should be deployed. In the past, police zones of coastal municipalities each received four additional agents during the summer months. These agents were transferred from the federal reserve. Last summer there was talk that extra policemen would not be provided to support the local areas during this busy period. The police areas of the coast could not then call on the internship inspectors who completed their training at the West Flemish police school. I have some specific questions about this for the season that is coming. Will local coastal police areas be able to count on additional support from the federal police during the tourist season this year, the HyCap and/or internship inspectors from the police school? Will the coastal zones be re-invigorated by the police? I see there during the weekend riding in Zeebrugge. Is this gonna be settled? What measures will you take to ensure that the problem of migrants remains manageable?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic662x.u9	Minister, both on the Belgian coast and in tourist Bruges, in the summer, the workload of local police forces triples, both in interventions and in the framework of many events. In recent years, the increased commitment at the French-Belgian border and at Zeebrugge has been added to this in the context of the problem of migrants. In the past, therefore, a limited reinforcement was provided by the so-called CIK, department of West Flanders. Last year, even because of the threat level 3, this was not the case. The repeated call by the Minister of the Interior for the West-Flemish provincial governor and the coastal mayors to obtain some federal reinforcement remained unanswered at that time. Both the shipping police and the CIK West Flanders are suffering from a terrible shortage of personnel. For the CIK it is no less than 18 employees, or 45% of what is provided on the organic table. Despite the fact that the necessary financial resources are available, the coastal police areas are also not provided with their minimum staffing framework. The main explanation for this is the decision to roam about four fifths of the prospective inspectors, who graduate from the West Flemish police school at this time, for the so-called Channel Plan and to Brussels. As usual, the provincial governor, at the request of the local chiefs, once again asked you for reinforcement on 25 April. In the spirit of the GPI 44ter circular, with regard to the deployment of the intervention corps, it is proposed to consider the summer season on the coast and the immediate hinterland, with no less than seven million tourists, as an annual and large-scale event, so as to enable the intervention corps to take priority. I therefore have two questions, Minister. Firstly, are you prepared to consider the summer season on the Belgian coast as an annual and large-scale event and to add this to the provisions of the GPI 44ter circular? Secondly, what very concrete commitments do you make following the request for federal reinforcement of coastal police zones in summer 2017?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic662x.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, I see that you are doing well for your work as a representative of the people. I find it surprising that the questions put by Members here, not through the usual channels, namely through the Chief of Police, the Governor or the Administrative Director-Coordinator (DirCo), were asked to the competent department within the federal police. That's not a reproach. That's a finding. You do your job as you should, but there are procedures for such requests for reinforcement and they have not yet been activated. Mr Demon, there is no provision for structured reinforcement for the coastal areas of policemen from the CIK during the tourist season. However, the federal police will provide punctual support based on the MFO-2. If a police area requests support following an event, the aid application will therefore be dealt with in the regular manner. The priority of the West-Flanders intervention corps continues to be the approach and management of the transmigrants, as far as indirect aid in itself is concerned. As far as possible, the so-called mortgage capacity of coastal zones will not be used at national level during July and August. This implies that the other police areas of West Flanders must make a temporary additional effort, also for the deployment outside their own province. As regards the graduate inspectors, part will be allocated to the Channel Plan and the CSD Brussels and, on the other hand, inspectors will be offered the possibility of mobility. Mrs Lambrecht, at the moment the MFO-2 on the HyCap line is being rewritten in order to better regulate solidarity between the zones. If that's finished, I'll ask the federal police for a review of the GPI 44ter you're referring to. The granting of the status of special public policy event to the summer season on the coast should be thoroughly examined. This is an annual phenomenon over a long period of time and it is difficult to describe it as a special event. Examples are listed in the GPI 44ter. Moreover, the impact of the application of that statute is significant for the rest of the country, at other events and at statutory level. The strengthening of coastal zones for this summer season is under constant review. A decision is taken on the basis of the need for reinforcement for the various events organised throughout the country, the threat level, both global and punctual, for various events and the available resources of the federal police. Again, there is no structured use of the cavalry. As every year, each police area can submit an aid application for the cavalry, which will then be assessed on the central command and validated or not. For example, following the fire at the Grande Synthe camp in France, at the request of the West Coast police, the cavalry of the federal police was immediately deployed to co-supervise and carry out control in order to manage and control any transmigratory flow from France. An ad hoc and urgent punctual commitment is always one of the possible options. The intervention corps of West Flanders still has the task of carrying out targeted checks and providing support in the management of the transmigrants. It does so, on the one hand, autonomously and, on the other hand, in support of local police, shipping police, road police and federal judicial police. It does so in collaboration with the parquet and with the DVZ.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic662x.u11	If I understand correctly, until a few years ago, the coastal communities received four additional agents during the summer months. Now that question needs to be asked for additional support from the governor, the mayor or the police area. Do I understand correctly that this question has not yet been asked?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic662x.u12	Not according to the standard procedure at the DAO, where it is normally handled and handled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic662x.u13	To sum up, therefore, there is no structural federal support. There is a punctual view of what is possible. That doesn't have to be an event. Besides, the tourist season is a series of events. I suppose that's how I interpret it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic662x.u14	Mr Minister, my question is in line with Mr Demon's question. We know that seven million tourists come to the coast every year, rain or sunshine. Do I understand that this is not recognised as an annual large-scale event?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic662x.u15	Mrs Lambrecht, I too am bound by the law. The law states what is meant by a large-scale event. The fact that there is more people on the coast for months is not an event. An event just means something's punctual. It is not the right way to call on it to say that we need more support on a permanent basis. As I said in my reply, there will be a permanent assessment of additional needs. We can make this difficult to comply with the legal definition of an event. It is clear, however, that we are putting policemen where they are needed. If we know that there will be a massive influx to the coast, this will be taken into account in the distribution of capacity and reserve capacity, but this is not the vehicle event or specific event. We do this every year and the governor, the chiefs of police and the mayors know that and submit the questions through the regular channels and are also provided with reinforcements. That is the usual way of working that we have been using for years.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic662x.u16	Mr President, I have seen that the Committee's agenda is particularly busy. Can the first two questions, with the Minister's approval, be converted into written questions, if I have the answers of the minister's collaborator?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic662x.u17	All right. Questions No 17667 and No 17668 by Mr Nollet are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic662x.u18	The licensing regulations provided for in the Royal Decree of 17 October 2011 on physical protection came into force on 1 May 2012. Operators had six months to apply to the Agency for approval and AFCN delivered its opinion on 1 May 2013. From the time of receipt of this notice, operators had 36 months, until April 1, 2016, to implement all the safety measures proposed by AFCN. At that time, the AFCN re-evaluated the physical protection system in place and issued its verdict on November 1, 2016. As a result, in particular, of the serious and numerous deficiencies identified in the computer system, Electrabel's protection system was refused by AFCN. The operator then had a period of three months to formulate responses and make adjustments. Next, the AFCN would conduct a re-examination. What's the status of this exam? Has AFCN given its green light or will it do so? Has it identified any new and/or persistent problems? What are they? What is the timetable and next steps?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic662x.u19	Mr Nollet, first of all, let me clarify your question. There is not a single ENGIE-Electrabel protection system but two: one for Tihange and one for Doel. Furthermore, with regard to the decisions of November 2016 refusing to approve ENGIE-Electrabel's security systems, I refer you to the report of the Sub-Committee of 22 November 2016. As you mentioned, the last interim assessment of safety approvals took place on November 1, 2016. Operators were granted a deadline until February 1, 2017 to make changes to their physical protection system as required by the AFCN. As a result, inspectors and experts from the AFCN visited the site. AFCN issued its decision on the accreditation of the physical protection system for nuclear facilities and transportation companies shortly before 1 May. Based on its assessment, AFCN concluded that, in general, all nuclear facilities and carriers have made tremendous progress, while noting that some operators have not yet met all the conditions necessary to obtain their approval. These operators are given additional time to implement the latest measures. As regards the specific dossier of ENGIE-Electrabel approvals, AFCN granted the accreditation of the physical protection system for the Tihange site as well as for the Doel site. However, for the Doel site, Doel 1 and Doel 2 units were excluded from this approval. The current security measures on these two units already have a high level. However, the AFCN believes that these can be improved. This decision is linked to certain work still to be carried out by the operator in connection with the ten-year extension, therefore the long term operation, of these two units. The AFCN therefore justified its decision with the operator, imposed additional physical protection measures, with implementation deadlines. Once AFCN has found that the operator has implemented all complementary physical protection measures, it will approve the physical protection system and inform the operator of its decision. I can't provide you with any more information on this. You cannot escape that these files are highly sensitive and properly classified documents.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic662x.u20	However, I would ask you for additional information. You say that the AFCN has given the various operators additional time. Is this time limit known? The last time you gave me the deadline for the necessary information or developments. Here, what is the deadline? Is it three months again?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic662x.u21	If I'm well informed or informed, yes, it's three months. But I'll check it out.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic662x.u22	Unless it's a contract, it's three months. That way I know when I can possibly rest the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic662x.u23	Mr President, Minister, I will not criticise the non-scientific approach of the AFN. It is neither the envy nor the arguments that I miss, but it is neither the place nor the object of my question. On the other hand, I would like to know why, despite its duty of neutrality, Bel V allows itself to refer this militant association to its website? How long has this official link been established? Do you find that normal? Does the AFCN of which Bel V is only the armed arm endorse such a practice? Is it part of Bel V's mission to campaign "for" nuclear power? What are the criteria used for associations listed by Bel V? Why, in view of the criteria used, are not much more serious associations on the subject, such as Greenpeace, the Network Sortir du nucléaire or the Confederate Ecologists for the Organisation de Luttes Originales mentioned when this is the case with the AEPN? In addition to referencing on the site, what are Bel V's other relationships with the AEPN?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic662x.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is not normal for an activist association such as the AEPN to be referenced on the Bel V website. As the Minister responsible for the security authority, as well as the AFCN, I do not endorse this referral. This link has been removed from the Bel V website. I would also like to point out that there is no official link between Bel V and the AEPN and that these two organisations have no relationship. The link in question appeared on the site for informational purposes. But I am well aware that this should not have been the case. On the other hand, I would like to stress that I am deeply convinced of the independence, neutrality of the safety authority, whether it is AFCN or its subsidiary Bel V. The presence of this link must in no way call into question the quality of the work performed and the independence and neutrality of these two bodies. It is clear that it would have been preferable for this link not to be found on the Bel V site.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic662x.u25	Mr President, Minister, I thank you for your very clear answer, as is often the case. Minister, you will not, but you could have completed your answer by drawing attention to the fact that the Greenpeace and Nuclear Exit Network sites are also serious. I will not speak here about the third site since it is ours.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic662x.u26	The U.S. manufacturer of Westinghouse nuclear power plants filed the balance sheet on Wednesday, March 29, in view of the financial debacle in which he was trained. When we know that Westinghouse has supplied technology for half of the world's nuclear power plants, we measure the seriousness of the situation and the strong indicator of this bankruptcy in terms of the lack of perspective for this adrift sector. Other major nuclear companies, such as Areva, have also recently been taken to the bottoms of the economy. My first question is how you look at this balance sheet deposit and, more broadly, at the profound economic development of the sector. But immediately after comes the question of whether this bankruptcy will have consequences for the safety of our nuclear power plants, because this company provides a series of services for Belgian power plants. Can you list these services and, above all, guarantee that they will continue to be offered by telling us how this need will be realized?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic662x.u27	Mr Nollet has drawn up the picture and I do come to cling to his question by saying that Westinghouse, which has submitted the report, has projects at different stages of completion in different countries and also provides a series of services for Belgian power stations. According to the media, the US manufacturer assures that its international operations will not be affected by its bankruptcy. Minister, what services are provided by Westinghouse in Belgian nuclear power plants? Does the Federal Agency for Nuclear Control (AFCN) analyse this issue and the possible impacts on the nuclear safety of Belgian power plants? Has another company been designated to carry out previous missions by Westinghouse? If so, which one?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic662x.u28	Colleagues, on 29 March, Westinghouse Electric Company announced its deposit of balance sheet and the commitment to a profound restructuring under Chapter 11 of the US Bankruptcy Code. With regard to the consequences of this bankruptcy on the security of our plants, know that in its communiqué Westinghouse announced that this restructuring should not have an impact on its European activities. Westinghouse states, in fact, that "Westinghouse corporations in Europe are not impacted by the chapter 11 lines customers. These regions will continue to receive the high quality products and services they have to come to expect in usual courses However, as part of its mission, the AFCN clearly considered this situation. In order to anticipate these problems, AFCN asked the operator ENGIE-Electrabel to provide an assessment of the direct and indirect impact of this bankruptcy. On the basis of this information, the operator is responsible for assessing the potential impacts and the measures to be planned to compensate as much as possible for the negative consequences. AFCN will then evaluate all of these elements. I can assure you that AFCN is following this situation with the utmost attention and that nothing will jeopardize the level of safety applied in our Belgian nuclear power plants. They will do the same when other economic developments occur and could have an impact on nuclear safety. So for the moment, we are waiting for the ENGIE-Electrabel impact report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic662x.u29	Minister, thank you for your answer. When it's good, you have to say it too. AFCN immediately had the reflex to request an impact assessment from ENGIE. How long will it take?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic662x.u30	I don't think we've given a mandatory deadline.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic662x.u31	So I'll do it again with you in a month or a month and a half, at least before the holidays. The first answer you gave from Westinghouse was to say: "Yes, but our European unity is not threatened". If we are familiar with American law, which you know better than I do, when there is a bankruptcy situation, it is all units that are potentially affected by the consequences. So we know that solutions can still be found, because American law allows us to have steps but it is not a solution that, from the outset, is differentiated, which gives an absolute guarantee. And that's why the reflex to study the potential consequences of AFCN is healthy. Nevertheless, I would like this dimension on the consequences in Belgium, and more generally in Europe, to be analysed beyond the somewhat simplistic response given by the parent company in a very general way. Also, wait for the results! But I will ask you again because you have understood – and that is also your point – that these are elements that can have an impact in terms of security at home. So let's watch the situation!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic662x.u32	Thank you, Minister, for your response and for your vigilance and that of the AFCN. But if you're vigilant, we are. We'll be back in a few weeks when the situation has changed and we can look at the possible report of the FANC on the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic662x.u33	Minister, this is a very important issue for me. The 2016-2019 Comprehensive Security Framework Note provides for a central point of contact with the federal police for environmental crime, whose main functions are expertise, support, coordination and imaging. This point of contact is also considered essential in order to continue to encourage, through active management and collection of information, the launch, supervision and coordination of reactive and multidisciplinary investigations into serious environmental crime. The note also identifies five priority areas: waste fraud, biodiversity, animal welfare, energy fraud and the marine environment. The objective is to pursue an efficient and targeted prosecution policy in each of these priority areas. Minister, can I tell you how many people are specifically assigned at the federal police level to each of these fields, particularly biodiversity? What is the number of biodiversity cases handled by the federal police per year over the past five years? How do you explain that this important biodiversity issue is not identified as such in the National Security Plan when it is one of the five priorities defined by the Framework Note? What explains this mismatch? How and when do you intend to correct this? How does this happen in practice when a magistrate makes a request on a biodiversity-related case? How does that happen when another country makes such a request? Who deals specifically with issues that fall within the priorities of the Framework Note but are not included in the National Plan? Finally, I would like to ask you about Belgium's participation and representation in a series of international initiatives related to these issues, which I consider important in terms of crime. As we know, there are no borders in this area. Is the Central Environment Service still active in Interpol's environment programme? If so, who represented us at the last five meetings? If the answer is negative, since when and for what reasons? Is the Central Environment Service still active in Interpol's Crime Pollution program? If so, who represented us at the last five meetings? If the answer is negative, since when and for what reasons? Is Belgium still an active participant in the Augias project, of which it was the initiator during the Belgian Presidency of the European Union in 2010? If so, who represented us at the last five meetings? If the answer is negative, since when and for what reasons? Is the Central Environment Service still involved and active in the informal EnviCrimeNet network created within Europol? If so, who represented us at the last five meetings? If the answer is negative, since when and for what reasons? Is the Central Environment Service still actively involved in the exchange of information on the EU-TWIX database on fauna and flora? If so, who represented us at the last five meetings? If the answer is negative, since when and for what reasons? Finally, does the Central Environment Service still participate in international wildlife control actions, such as Operation Thunderbird, which has been echoed in the press? If so, what are the last five actions we took part in and their dates? If the answer is negative, how long have we picked up and why? That is a lot of questions, but beyond the specific questions, I would like to have a general reflection.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic662x.u34	Mr Nollet, there are no uniform statistical data available to answer your first question, since police personnel are engaged flexibly in different police missions. For example, research may take place in cases of money laundering or underlying offences that constitute waste fraud. The road police may, during a road safety check, inspect a truck and detect offences relating to the transport of waste. Within the framework of the administrative approach, a cross-cutting theme of the National Security Plan, the deconcentrated Federal Police Directorates can exchange information, via the Central Environment Service, with the respective administrative authorities so that they can take appropriate administrative measures. It is therefore not possible to remove the elements you describe from all the activities of the police. It is true that a central Environment Service exists at the level of the Federal Judicial Police. According to the organizational table, this service consists of eight full-time equivalents and currently consists of six full-time equivalents. The General Data Bank (BNG) is a police database where facts are recorded on the basis of minutes resulting from judicial and administrative police missions. It makes it possible to make counts on different statistical variables, such as the number of recorded facts, modi operandi, objects linked to the offence, means of transport used, etc. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the information available in the BNG does not relate to the number of cases processed but to the number of facts relating to biodiversity recorded by the police. The table I will give you presents the number of facts recorded by the police in relation to biodiversity fauna and flora, broken down by subclasses, as recorded in the BNG on the basis of the minutes, at national level for the years 2012-2015 and the first three quarters of 2016. These data are from the data bank closed on 20 January 2017. With regard to 2016 figures, annual figures will, as usual and after quality and completeness checks, be made available, subject to authorisation and publication, in June 2017. This table refers to "animal welfare", "trade and possession", " CITES legislation", "animal destruction", "animal permits and authorizations" and "Protection of nature". For example, with regard to the "animal welfare" category, there were 1,461 cases in 2012, and 1,362 cases in 2015. For the "Protection of Nature" category, there were 325 facts in 2012, and 256 in 2015. To answer your questions, there is no question of inadequacy. The Comprehensive Security Note includes all actors and stakeholders in the comprehensive and integrated approach to prevention, response and follow-up. For environmental phenomena, federated entities play an important role. Their contribution is reflected in the Framework Note. In particular, for the integrated police, the PNS adopts the objectives for the federal police, for the local police services, in consultation with the zonal security council and reflected in the zonal security plans. The integrated police therefore indicates in the PNS 2016-2019, what approach it intends to adopt with regard to security phenomena. This approach takes the form of projects to improve day-to-day functioning and/or by programme. While these two approaches are equivalent in terms of service to the public, they differ from a methodological point of view. A programme-based operation applies to phenomena with insufficient knowledge and which require a new approach. Improvement projects involve questioning and improving existing processes. In addition, the PNS also includes a series of cross-cutting themes related to security phenomena. On the basis of the above criterion, it was decided to address biodiversity infringements in the form of projects to improve day-to-day functioning. Local police are the key link in this approach. You then ask two very specific questions. While referring you to my colleague Koen Geens, I can, however, answer this. The magistrate will assign a case to the federal police or the local police on the basis of the criteria set out in the circular of the College of Public Prosecutors (COL 2/2002). Complex, highly supra-local cases or cases requiring the use of specific police techniques are, in principle, attributed to the federal police. The final decision is always made by the competent magistrate. With regard to requests for official support between countries, they may circulate between the judges concerned. However, this does not preclude the conduct of a formal investigation or the exchange of information between the police services in order to satisfy the magistrate's request. As for the question of the representation of Belgium and, in particular, of the Federal Police, I can confirm that it participates well in several international programmes and working groups. The Federal Police Environment Central Service participates as an active member of Interpol's Pollution Crime Group. This is reflected in the participation of 100 representatives at the annual meeting of this group. On the other hand, over the past five years, the service has no longer participated in the Wildlife Group as a result of the decision of the Federal Police Central Services Directorate to no longer engage capacity in biodiversity. The Belgian police are no longer represented there at the moment. The Central Environment Department is the promoter of the Augias project, developed during the Belgian Presidency of the European Union in 2010. The operations and actions resulting therefrom were initially to be limited to the duration of this presidency. However, as a result of the development of a practical control guide and the creation of the EnviCrimeNet network, operations continue to take place and contacts continue to be made, orchestrated by the central Environment department of the Federal Police. The EnviCrimeNet informal network, developed by the Environment Central Service, is at the service of European partners. Since the Belgian Presidency of the European Union, this group has remained active and the platform is used by all for the Community exchange of information on the fight against environmental crime. The Central Environment Service of the Federal Police has been part of the steering committee of the group since 2011 and therefore participates annually in the plenary meeting. The Central Environment Service no longer has the capacity to cover all aspects of environmental infringements and no longer participates in the EU-TWIX database since 2015. Finally, since 1 August 2013, the Central Environment Service no longer has staff with expertise in this specific area. It is therefore no longer taking part in the actions concerned. As part of Operation Thunderbird, the service issued the Interpol note, which was sent to the various field units and to customs at the end of January 2017 via the liaison officer. As a result, the Service has no longer played its role in the areas of expertise, support and coordination.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic662x.u35	Minister, thank you for your answers. I'll take the time to analyze them because they're quite complete. Allow me already a cross-cutting reflection which is also a sign of concern on my part. You say we don't have to worry because the system is more flexible. You do not know how many people are affected, but you reassure us that the mission is always well taken into account, with more flexibility between different services. At the same time, when I ask if there are still Belgian participations in this and this issue, you answer for some yes, but for others no, because we no longer have the human capacity to be present, to share information and to be an actor in these international networks. Now I'm really worried. This gives the impression that what is an important issue for biodiversity is not for nothing that it is no longer identified as such in the National Security Plan. I would like to hear a commitment from you, saying that you see what the situation is, what the difficulties are (remove staff, etc.)), and that you will remedy it so that there is no consequence or disinvestment. So that it does not become a political choice on your part or on the part of the government to disinvest what remains a priority, namely the fight against environmental crime. Can you commit yourself to it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic662x.u36	Mr Nollet, as is the case in the National Security Plan, these are the priorities of the government but also those of all the services concerned. I can confirm that there is no government decision to disinvest these priorities. They are provided for in the National Security Plan and the government has not changed its security policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic662x.u37	I will ask you later about this, because the problem is that it is defined in the Framework Note but not in the National Security Plan. There is a discrepancy between the two texts: the Comprehensive Security Note provides for this, but not the National Security Plan. It falls into the void between the two?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic662x.u38	No, it means that it is included in the various services distributed. There are no forces dedicated to it, but it is found in everyday activities. We're not going to have different police officers to do environmental control, fuel control, etc., as part of a truck control.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic662x.u39	I agree with you. I just wanted to draw your attention to the fact that there are cross-cutting missions that require specific staff, beyond flexibility. As far as lorries are concerned, I can understand the principle, but this is more about international commitments and programmes, where we have things to bring and learn. I'll come back to that when I analyze your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic662x.u40	Minister, I have asked you on several occasions for a state of affairs concerning the modernisation of the order of protocol. It is in the Flemish coalition agreement that the Flemish government has already decided to settle this. You made it clear from the outset that you were prepared to do something about it. The timing has moved a few times. When I first questioned you about this, your goal was to get it right before 21 July 2015. A working group has been set up which has made a number of recommendations. In response to other questions, the timing has shifted to autumn 2015, then to spring 2016. When I asked you again last year about a state of affairs, your answer was that it would certainly be fine by 21 July but that you did not know what year. Apparently, you're colliding with resistance within the government and it's still there in consultation. The reason for asking for a new state of affairs is the fact that the Flemish Prime Minister has indicated that he is apparently impatient in this matter and that he has decided to raise the issue with the Consultative Committee. Reportedly, he would have drawn up a note to that effect. What is the state of play in the federal government on this point? What does the Flemish Government's note say? What position does the federal government take on the Consultation Committee if the Flemish Government puts it on the agenda there? I'm curious to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic662x.u41	Mrs Pas, in a government there are unimportant things that can easily be resolved, such as: implement a tax shift, draw up budgets, adopt a security plan and so on. Other very important things seem to be a little more difficult to get settled. But I will answer your questions. In spring 2015, a working group was set up consisting mainly of representatives of the various federal protocol services. In July, this working group made a series of recommendations concerning a protocol adaptation for various functions originally included in the priority list. The representatives of all Länder were invited to a meeting of the working group which took place on 5 June 2015. They have their views on the place which the Presidents of the Community and Regional Assembly, as well as the Prime Ministers, should have been able to make known on the list of priorities. The most important idea that emerged from the positions of the Communities and the Regions was for the legislative power to have the Presidents of the Federal Assembly directly followed by the Presidents of the Community and Regional Parliaments. With regard to executive power, the Prime Minister would be directly followed by the Prime Ministers, the Deputy Prime Ministers by the Vice-Presidents and the Federal Ministers by the Community and Regional Ministers. The Working Group also formulated recommendations by consensus of the participants to update the protocol ranking by removing or adapting existing functions to new naming. The Prime Minister is the final responsible for determining the federal protocol order. Within the federal government, there are several protocol services, including Foreign Affairs, Defence and Chancellery, which have to follow the same order of precedence. The Prime Minister is aware of the work and conclusions of the working party and of the position of the Community and regional parliaments. The Flemish Government's note defends the statement contained in the Flemish government agreement, which states: "To increase the international visibility of Flanders, the intra-Belgian protocol agreements must be reviewed. For example, the Prime Minister should come immediately after the Prime Minister in the order of protocol. With successive state reforms, the powers and importance of the Länder grew inevitably. This applies not only within the federation, but also in relations with foreign actors. The order of precedence should reflect the increased importance of the Länder. In concrete terms, the Flemish Government invites the federal government to clarify the state of play in the matter of protocol order, to clarify any bottlenecks and to propose solutions and invites the federal government to propose a new regime, taking into account the comments and institutional importance of the Länder, to the Consultation Committee of May 2017. That is a literal quote from the Flemish Government's note. The federal government's position has yet to be determined within the government. The Prime Minister will take the necessary initiatives to adequately answer the Flemish Government's question to the Consultation Committee. As has already been said, a great deal of preparatory work has already been done within the working group that I have set up. In other words, the deadline will be set at the May 2017 Consultation Committee, i.e. soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic662x.u42	Thank you for your reply, Minister. You forgot to mention a number of minor issues that this government still has to deal with, such as the budget balance and the reduction in corporation tax. The Prime Minister considers the order of protocol to be an important matter or, at least, he acts as if he thinks it is an important matter. You referred to the new naming, but you yourself replied to my written question that it was purely a technical amendment, which did not change anything at all. I can only observe that the dossier has been under discussion in the government for three years now and that there is still no position on it. You set the deadline, but it was postponed several times. Last year you didn't even dare to set a date. Now the Consultation Committee will set the deadline. I'm very curious about that deadline. You won't be surprised that I'll follow it up.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic662x.u43	Mr President, Minister, a few weeks ago you confirmed the non-renewal of the EUR 1 million subsidy granted in 2015 to the ten Belgian municipalities most affected by the phenomenon of departures in Syria. This subside helped to combat religious radicalization by detecting people who might be able to go and fight in Syria. And, as we know, much of this work needs to be done at the local level. Thanks to the money you have given to four Brussels municipalities, several projects have been carried out on the ground. But without this funding, several anti-terrorist cells are at risk. For example, in the Molenbeek cell, a psychologist and a person in charge of socio-occupational integration may end their contract due to lack of resources. Other projects, such as a study of risks at school, are at risk. Minister, I find it difficult to understand this decision, knowing that the terrorist threat still weighs heavily on our country. Without this subsidy, the municipalities will have to tap into their own funds to carry out the fight against radicalism. I don't think that's normal at all. For what specific reasons have you decided not to extend this subsidy? Would it be possible to consider a new subsidy for these municipalities, even if the amount did not reach EUR 1 million? Do you also intend to support projects of the municipalities in the fight against terrorism, other than through subsidies? If so, how?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic662x.u44	Mr President, Madam Member, as you mentioned in your question, I have always been clear on the fact that the allocation granted to fifteen cities under the Royal Decrees of 9 November 2015 and 2 December 2015 was a unique financial support, designed to enable these fifteen cities – which are those with the greatest experience in the fight against radicalism – to make investments that enable them to increase and share their practices. I would point out that the primary purpose of this allocation is laid down in Article 2 of the decrees I have just mentioned. The aim is to encourage these fifteen cities to share their knowledge and practices with other cities exposed, to a lesser extent, to the risks posed by violent radicalism. This contribution enabled, among other things, to develop a series of initiatives, such as improving the expertise of existing staff, organising study days, creating tools for front-line actors, training for field teams, etc. Many of the initiatives developed in these cities can serve as sources of inspiration for other cities seeking to develop practices to prevent violent radicalization. These different experiences will, in particular, be integrated into the good practice guide currently being developed by the Mobile Team of the Interior SPF. With regard to the possible endangerment of cells dedicated to the fight against violent radicalism, I must point out that article 7 of the above-mentioned decree is clear on this subject. It is stated that the financial allocation may be allocated both to the financing of material costs and to the services provided in the context of preventing violent radicalisation. However, this is a one-time contribution not intended for recurrent staff costs. As a result, the cities that would have used this financial stimulus to recruit staff did not follow current regulations. Finally, I would point out that this single allocation was not the only financial means to support the fight against violent radicalism. The cities in question have a recurrent subsidy of EUR 6 000 to be used in this context. They can also reorient the resources provided under strategic security and prevention plans. Initiatives to combat violent radicalism also combat other criminal phenomena such as organized crime, etc. Synergies are therefore quite possible, including with means that cities perceive from other authorities in the country to contribute equally against violent radicalism and terrorism. The federal government is not the only actor or contributor in the fight against this phenomenon.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic662x.u45	Mr President, thank you for your answer. Minister, I can only deplore this decision. The fight against terrorism also requires prevention and not only repression. In fact, the work done so far by these communes was bearing fruit. Instead of carrying out these projects, you stop everything! This is clearly a political choice. Clearly, prevention is not one of your priorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic662x.u46	As neither Mr Maingain nor Mr Blanchart are present, Question No 5 will be answered in writing. 17765) by Mr Maingain and others: President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). Debates of the European Parliament Mr Maingain's 17767 is dealt with in the Finance Committee. Merged Questions No. Mr Van Hecke; Mr Van Hecke; Mr Van Hecke; Mr Van Hecke; Mr Van Hecke; Mr Van Hecke; Mr Van Hecke; Mr Van Hecke; Mr Van Hecke; Mr Van Hecke; Mr Van Hecke; Mr Van Hecke; Mr Van Hecke; Mr Van Hecke; Mr Van Hecke; Mr Van Hecke; Mr Van Hecke; Mr Van Hecke; Mr Van Hecke; Mr Van Hecke; Mr Van Hecke; Mr Van Hecke; Mr Van Hecke; Mr Van Hecke; Mr Van Hecke; Mr Van Hecke; Mr I did not receive a message from Mr Hellings and Mr Blanchart. Pursuant to Rule 127.10 of the Rules of Procedure, Questions No. Mr Hellings; Mr Hellings; Mr Hellings; Mr Hellings; Mr Hellings; Mr Hellings; Mr Hellings; Mr Hellings; Mr Hellings; Mr Hellings; Mr Hellings; Mr Hellings; Mr Hellings; Mr Hellings; Mr Hellings; Mr Hellings; Mr Hellings; Mr Hellings; Mr Hellings; Mr Hellings; Mr Hellings; Mr Hellings; Mr Hellings; Mr Hellings; Mr Hellings; Mr Hellings; Mr Hellings; Mr Hellings; Mr Hellings; Mr Hellings; Mr Hellings; Mr Hellings; Mr Hellings; Mr Hellings; Mr Hellings; Mr Debates of the European Parliament Mrs de Coster-Bauchau's 17864 will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament 17867 by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu on neighbourhood prevention is postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Piedboeuf (S). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jadin's 17909 was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Hecke's 17915 was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic662x.u47	Minister, Article 127 of the Law of 7 December 1998 on the organisation of an integrated police service, structured at two levels, sets out the following on the possible political activities of police officers: "The status of police officers ensures their impartiality. They must avoid any action or attitude likely to undermine this presumption of impartiality. Police officers should exclude any arbitrary action, in particular by avoiding, in their manner of action or by reason of the matter for which they are acting, any prejudice to the impartiality which citizens may expect from them. In all circumstances, police officers must refrain from expressing their political convictions publicly and from engaging in political activities in public. They must not be candidates for a political mandate." The deontological code for the police forces prescribes the same in relation to political neutrality. Political neutrality increases the credibility of a police force. The confidence of citizens in that service is thus based on the total impartiality of its members who have the status of police officer. Do you have any knowledge of police officers bypassing the deontological code and the legislation? If so, how many people are they talking about? What sanctions are involved in circumventing political neutrality? Finally, a police officer should not be a candidate for a political mandate. However, the law defines greater neutrality, because it is also not allowed to express a public opinion. Can I therefore assume that, for example, a police officer cannot be the chairman of a local political department?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic662x.u48	Mr Top, after consulting the lists of disciplinary penalties since 2007, I can inform you that no disciplinary proceedings have been initiated for the federal police in respect of infringements or related infringements of the relevant Article 127 of the WGP. These are mainly cases at the level of higher discipline. We have no visual on the files of ordinary disciplinary authorities or the local police. I cannot answer the third question in a uniform manner. Depending on the degree and function of the person concerned, disciplinary record, publicity and political activity, a minor disciplinary sentence, a warning or blame, may lead to a severe disciplinary sentence, even a dismissal from the service if, for example, it would be accompanied by extremely racist or anti-Semitic statements. Finally, in accordance with Article 127 (3) and Article 133 of the Law of 7 December 1998 on the organisation of the integrated police services, the staff of the operational framework must, in all circumstances, refrain from expressing their political convictions publicly and from engaging in political activities in public. Pursuant to Article 134 of the WGP, a staff member of the operational framework may exercise a public mandate if he or she is in non-activity on personal grounds. In view of the fact that the holding of the office of a local political section is accompanied by the public expression of the political conviction, this can only be allowed if the staff member of the operational framework has a long-term absence due to personal matters. That is the only circumstance in which that can happen.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic662x.u49	Minister, your answer is sufficiently clear, so I have no further questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic662x.u50	Debates of the European Parliament 17924 by Mrs Grosemans will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic662x.u51	Mr President, Minister, at the end of February Mrs Lahaye-Battheu asked you a question about the new MFO-2. As a result of this question, the members of this committee received a research report on the application of the MFO-2 at the European Summit on 20 and 21 October 2016. However, Mrs Lahaye-Battheu asked about the report of the General Inspection on the causes of structural deficiencies. Although the forwarded report also mentions the causes of structural shortcomings at the October summit, this report may be less general than the July report. The report we are now concerned with says: "Despite the importance to be attached to a European summit and the thorough preparation by the Brussels Capital-Elsene police zone, it has been shown that insufficient effective resources could be made available to manage the law enforcement service in the desired way. There have been no significant problems, but there is the impression that risks have been taken." The cause of the deficits is, among other things, insufficient mobilisation of the HyCap. In the meantime, you have taken steps to take this further. I have the following questions, Minister. Can we still get the report of the General Inspection of July 2016? Grants are awarded to the Brussels police zones to finance the organisation of European summits. To what extent can police areas from outside Brussels, which provide reinforcement in the context of a European summit, also benefit from these subsidies? The training of the HyCap staff left something to be desired. What changes do you intend to make to the new proposal? During the summit, soldiers were deployed for missions which in fact had to be entrusted to police officers. To what extent can this be and to what extent can it be? The report states that there is the impression that risks were taken in the security of the European summit. So, what are the risk derivatives?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic662x.u52	Mr President, Mr Top, for your first question, I have already delivered the report to the committee. Secondly, the police management and organisation of the frequent European summits in Brussels have a special and substantial impact on the Brussels police, which has indeed forced and I believe justifies additional funding. In addition to supporting federal police, several other local police services each provide reinforcement for the safe conduct of EU summits under the regular HyCap mechanism based on the principle of solidarity within the integrated police. Without prejudice to the structural federal financing of such contracts of a federal nature by the annual federal basis, this strengthening implies that the performance on the credit line of those zones is charged. After all, the renewed HyCap model, to which I shall return in a moment, must ensure an even more balanced distribution of the workload combined with a fair system of remuneration and penalties. Local and federal police have recently jointly developed an adapted concept for the mandatory Ministerial Directive MFO-2. I have examined that proposal and I believe that it provides a satisfactory response to the recently identified pain points and the recommendations made by, among other things, the AIG. At present, the proposal is being transformed into a binding letter to be issued as a new MFO-2 after the planned advisory procedures. In addition to quantitative aspects, such as the mobilizable numbers, the proposal also includes a large number of measures to improve the quality of the HyCap mechanism. Training and training is a very important theme and is also addressed in the proposed concept. In view of the opinions to be obtained, on the one hand, and the complexity and technicality of the matter, on the other, I would prefer not to go into them in substance. The protocol agreement on the support of Defence to the integrated police for security missions allows military forces to be deployed to monitor certain sites, places or institutions. In view of the general threat level 3 and the specific threat level for the European summit, also level 3, military deployment was possible and even necessary. The AIG's perception of taking risks is based on the finding that the Brussels-Capital-Elsene police area did not have all the required effectives to manage the law enforcement service in the desired way. It could therefore be assumed that a number of risk derivatives that were treated in the risk analysis were not covered. The AIG's investigation has shown that the Brussels-Capital-Elsene police area has carried out a risk analysis to determine the necessary resources for the administration of the security service. Although the research was not intended to assess whether the planned use of resources was sufficient. In other words, no investigation was carried out into the necessity and opportunity of the funds allocated to this order. However, the researchers of the AIG felt that there was certainly not too much demand for resources.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic662x.u53	Thank you, Minister, for the answer and clarification of the inspection report and the renewal of the HyCap system. Questions about the renewal of the HyCap system have been asked several times. In a previous reply, you said that the letter relating to the MFO-2 was ready to be distributed. Am I wrong about that? We know that there are problems, as you yourself have mentioned in your answers to various questions put by my fellow Members. We notice this also in our zone and in West Flanders. However, as a result of this evaluation, we also note that there may be risks. I would therefore urge that the renewed system be put in place very quickly to prevent possible disasters and problems at a European summit or the visit of an important Head of State, for example, which is soon to be on the agenda, and to avoid taking risks, in order not to get any new statements on behalf of that person that I am not going to pronounce on.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic662x.u54	Mr President, Minister, in an interview given to the newspaper L'Avenir on 10 April last, the prosecutor of the King of the judicial district Mons-Tournai expresses his concern about the staff of the judicial police Mons-Tournai who is in deficit. In fact, within the PJ of this district, 200 people are on the ground while officially, they should be 242. However, this represents a 20 per cent shortage of staff! Minister, will the framework of PJ Mons-Tournai be respected? Are there commitments to complement it? If so, could I have a specific agenda?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic662x.u55	Mr President, Mr Delannois, it is important to know that the organizational framework of TO 3 personnel, following the optimisation of the federal police, determines a maximum capacity, not a real capacity, distributed by rank, level and direction of the federal police. According to information provided by the Federal Police, the number of personnel present at the Mons-Tournai PJF on 25 April 2017 is 223 out of 242, which means that the organic framework (TO 3) is 92%. In 2016, a number of efforts were made for this PJF; I will return to that. The federal police are organized on the basis of the current allocation of staff so as to allocate their capacity to the best extent possible and to take account of the shortfalls in their services. During each mobility cycle, the federal police provide a budgetary margin, converted into mobility points, allowing them to open up jobs. These points are divided between the Directorates-General and their entities. Within the DGJ, the needs formulated by the different units that make up it are analysed and classified according to priorities, workload, unit deficit, etc. The number of points allocated to the Directorate-General of the Judicial Police shall not exceed the number of jobs open for mobility. As mentioned in the answer to the first question, a number of mobility points were awarded to the DGJ during 2016. After classifying the different needs expressed by the units, jobs were opened in mobility within the Mons-Tournai PJF. For mobility in 2016, 16 jobs for the Mons PJF were opened, 15 of which were allocated. So 15 collaborators are set up. I have here the table showing the open spaces, a table that I can communicate to you. This year, five jobs will be published in the second round of mobility 2017: for the Mons PJF, one inspector, three senior inspectors and one commissioner. Other recruitments will follow. But, for the reasons given in response to your first question, it is difficult to detail the schedule of commitments at the Mons-Tournai PJF at the moment. We'll send you the paintings.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic662x.u56	Minister, thank you. My only question is about the variation in numbers depending on whether they come from the organizers or the police. On April 10, the prosecutor considers that there are 200, while you tell us that there are 223 of them. I don't know who the "organiser" is and who the "police" is. In any case, I will look at the various figures. I hear, however, that five could arrive this year. This is, of course, good news. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic662x.u57	Mr Delannois, if I may say so, sometimes collaborators get sick. They are part of the quota and are engaged, but are not active at that time. I do not know if, in this particular case, it can explain the difference, but it can contribute to the objector.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic662x.u58	Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic662x.u59	Debates of the European Parliament 18026 by Mrs Monica De Coninck is postponed. Mr Calomne was due to come, so we are waiting for his question. Questions Nos 18070, 18071, 18073 and 18074 by Mrs Gabriels are postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Dierick's 18095 is also being postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic662x.u60	Minister, on Tuesday 11 April the press relayed the new report of the Federal Migration Centre, Myria, very critical of the way in which Belgium treats illegal passengers discovered by the captains of the ships moored in the ports of Antwerp, Ghent, Zeebrugge-Blankenberge and Ostend-Nieuport. According to the independent public institute, the rights of such persons would be violated, while the country did not have legislation that specifically covered the subject. I would therefore like to ask you the following questions. What is the number of illegal passengers found in Belgian ports? How many have applied for asylum and how many have been granted political refugee status from 2014 to the present? What is the procedure followed when an illegal passenger is found? Are there also reports in this context during ship inspections? What are the federal maritime border control agencies? What are their skills? What are the instructions received by the police services applicable to all Belgian ports? Is there adequate legal and administrative support and reception for illegal passengers? If so, which ones? If not, why not? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic662x.u61	Mr Kir, according to figures from the Foreign Office, the number of illegal passengers found in Belgian ports, i.e. Antwerp, Ghent, Zeebrugge and Ostend, amounts to 26 in 2014, 20 in 2015, 12 in 2016 and again zero in 2017. According to the Foreigners' Office, during these years no illegal passengers have applied for asylum. I can still tell you that the navigating police draw up a record of every discovery of an illegal passenger. Two authorities are competent for the control of maritime borders, namely the Navigation Police and the Office of Foreigners. The authority competent to exercise border control at external maritime borders is the federal police, i.e. the navigating police. Article 17 of the Act of 3 May 1999 provides that: "The Federal Police shall be responsible for the police of waters in maritime zones and waters under Belgian jurisdiction." Section 18 of the Act provides for the term "water police": "In this Act, the term "water police" means "border control". It's one of their skills. The competence of the navigating police also derives from the Royal Decree of 11 April 2005 on border controls at external maritime borders. The Royal Decree provides that "the members of the Federal Police in charge of the water police shall exercise, in accordance with uniform principles, on the basis of national competence and in accordance with international agreements binding Belgium, the control of the movement of persons at external maritime borders". For the powers of the Foreign Office, I refer you to the office of my colleague Mr Theo Francken. As for the instructions received by the police service, applicable to all Belgian ports, the navigating police traveled on board the vessel as soon as they were informed of the presence of an illegal passenger. During this intervention, the inspectors of the navigation police will check whether illegal passengers are treated in a humane manner. Where appropriate, police officers shall intervene with the captain in order to require a larger cabin, sufficient and quality food, a visit by a doctor, better clothing, etc. If the health of the illegal passenger so requires, a doctor will be called upon immediately. At regular intervals, the navigating police will carry out checks to verify the health of the person concerned. The captain is informed that he must take all necessary measures to avoid a flight of the illegal passenger, which would constitute a violation of section 77 of the Aliens Act of 15 December 1980. When a humanitarian stay on board is excluded, when the pilot-in-command specifically requests it or when urgent medical care is required, temporary disembarkation/stay is possible. Prior to any landing, a document indicating a joint bond to be paid must be signed by the captain and the marine agent, in order to be able to pay the costs incurred. In the event that the illegal passenger applies for asylum, the Foreigners' Office shall be notified immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic662x.u62	I would like to thank the minister for his comprehensive response. I'm obviously going to analyze it and go back to him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic662x.u63	Minister, on 7 April, you announced that four of the six barracks of civil protection should close, including Jabbeke's, while the barracks of Crisnée and Brasschaat would remain open. The Jabbeke barracks have been responsible for the safety of a large number of citizens and businesses in the coastal region and the hinterland for many years in the event of small and large disasters, and have specialised teams, knowledge and material to this end. Its involvement in chemical accidents in companies, health accidents on public roads and floods, and disasters at sea and in seaports in particular, contributes greatly to a safer region and province. It is my belief that the complete disappearance of civil protection in Jabbeke is both a major loss of specialist knowledge and resources in the fight against disasters at sea and on the coast, as well as a significant deterioration in the efficiency and quality of the public security services provided. It is therefore against the chest that the two remaining barracks are located in the outskirts of the country. Angry tongues dare to claim that they are home ports of the mayor-minister of Internal Affairs and an MR representative. Also in Liedekerke there is no mention of the approach. According to your fellow mayor of Liedekerke, it became clear to him after a meeting in your cabinet that the decision would have been taken unilaterally by you for political reasons and not supported by thoroughly investigated reasons. Mr Minister, is there a rational plan that supports the choice to close the barracks in Jabbeke and maintain them in Brasschaat, or is it merely the choice to maintain the barracks in the mayor-minister's municipality? What is the further timing and content of civil security reform?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic662x.u64	I would like to point out to Mrs Lambrecht that the whole debate that is now being requested was quite extensive three weeks ago.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic662x.u65	I have given a presentation here for hours at a time. Mr Top can testify to this, a presentation with slides and answers to all the elements that have been addressed. What am I even doing here? Why do I always offer to speak very comprehensively to the committee? For my answers to the questions today, I simply refer to the reports from the previous committee meetings, which have been answered extensively and literally. We can also spend our time usefully!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic662x.u66	Mr Top, I am sure you would like to speak, since you have an interplay on the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic662x.u67	Minister, we are different in terms of civil protection. Indeed, my speech goes beyond what has already been brought here in the debate. That is why I have tabled an interplay in our committee. Mr Degroote, I apologise for waiting so long, because you will have to table a simple motion later. I'm going to explain the reason for my interplay. A few weeks ago, we took note of a unilateral decision to reduce the civil protection remit and close four of the six barracks. The proposal for a decision states that the barracks of Brasschaat and Crisnée would remain open. We believe that the reform of civil protection is based on wrong principles, which are not rational and efficient. As my colleague said, several experts in the field say that it would be entirely wrong to reason that the speed of intervention would no longer be important for the specialised tasks that civil protection would carry out in the future. I am thinking of using heavier pumps, picking up suspicious envelopes or packages, while sometimes a company needs to be shut down or evacuated, or support orders to the police. A chain of command certainly benefits from efficient task execution, but certainly not from closing existing barracks and leaving only two units or posts. Especially the closure of the barracks Liedekerke and Jabbeke is incomprehensible. Based on an initial objective analysis, Liedekerke's unit was apparently first ranked as the most suitable and cost-effective barracks. The mail is most central in Flanders in terms of driving times towards relief zones in Flanders and even in Wallonia. Similarly, the distance to Hainaut is acceptable. The post is housed in very good buildings. Until recently, in Liedekerke, huge investments were made in a completely newly built barracks and in the modernisation of all associated buildings and halls. Also closing Jabbeke's unit raises questions for a number of reasons. The Jabbeke unit is an important barracks for combating marine disasters. The very specific expertise of that barracks cannot simply be transferred to aid zones or other civil protection barracks that remain open. How will you continue to guarantee security for all citizens in our country with the remaining two posts, given that the posts are not centrally located? You have already replied to the question as to the precise impact of your decision on the staff, but I would add that to complete the motion. What is the state of the social dialogue today?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic662x.u68	Mr Top, I respect the fact that you are a young and committed member here in committee. You've been through all the discussions. We are indeed differing on the point made. It can be done in a democracy. I think I have already answered the first question in detail. Your third question is new. Since then, there has indeed been a meeting with the trade unions. In line with the logic of the reform of civil security, the fire department part of which has already been decided by the previous government, the relief zones become the primary responsibility in the chain. That's not my decision. She was taken from the Paulus Commission at the beginning of the fire reform. This report dates back to 2007, if I am not mistaken. They are responsible for the urgent interventions which, simply put, must save citizens in urgent need. To this end, the zones are expected to draw up a risk analysis for their territory and to establish their structure and operation. In addition, civil protection will be responsible for the second-line interventions, which include a more long-term and or specialized deployment in order to be able to deal with an incident in an appropriate manner. The location is only one of the criteria for the analysis which resulted in the choice of the barracks. Eventually one should look at the full picture of the various elements for all units and not selectively look at what for or against the one or the other barracks. Indeed, a first technical meeting with the trade unions took place on 4 May 2017, with the draft texts on working time, scaling and refection being first explained. A second technical meeting is scheduled for 24 May. The draft texts on administrative and financial regulations will be sent to the interlocutors by 17 May. Initially, these are informal technical meetings, which will be converted into official negotiations in the autumn, with the aim of concluding by the end of the calendar year as regards the statute.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic662x.u69	Minister, I will not repeat the discussion last time on our approach to civil protection. I would nevertheless like to thank you for explaining more about the social dialogue. I continue to stress the need to provide a solution for every civil protection officer. In the previous sitting, you explained that they were given the opportunity, but let us offer every means and opportunity, so that every civil protection officer can have an adequate opportunity, if that is his choice, to move to the remaining posts or to the relief zones. Everything must be done to get that right. Of course, we continue to disagree with you about civil protection. That is why I would like to table my motion so that we can maintain the necessary guarantees for all the inhabitants of our country. Continue to respect and maintain social dialogue. It remains to be seen what happens to the barracks if the decision is not reversed. It is necessary to examine how the site, buildings and personnel can be tilted into fire zones so that at least a fresh start can be made with the necessary funding to ensure appropriate civil protection. A clear vision of the future must be drawn up for the remaining barracks and their staff. I will hand over the text to the chairman.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic662x.u70	I would like to thank the Minister for the answer. However, I could have been told in a normal way that the point would not be dealt with now, because I would not have waited so long here.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic662x.u71	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Alain Top and reads as follows: "The Chamber, President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Security and Home Affairs, with responsibility for the Directorate of Buildings, calls on the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Security and Home Affairs, in charge of the Buildings Management - to ensure the safety of the inhabitants of our country at all times, - submit a clear vision of the future for the remaining barracks to this committee, - to remove itself the decision to undermine the civil protection mission and to close four civil protection barracks and, without doubt, to continue to guarantee security and to ensure maximum expertise by maintaining barracks at Liedekerke and Jabbeke, - to assess the precise impact on civil protection personnel and to submit them to the members of this committee, - show respect for social dialogue, - if the decision to close the barracks is not reversed, investigate how the site, buildings, personnel and equipment of the Civil Protection could possibly be tilted into the fire zone to at least get a fresh start for appropriate civil protection. For this purpose, the federal government should provide appropriate funding and not save on security." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Alain Top and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Alain Top and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Security and Interior, responsible for the Régie des Bâtiments, asks the government - to continue to guarantee at all times the safety of the inhabitants of our country, - to present to the Commission a clear vision for the future of the remaining barracks, - to cancel personally the decision taken to dismantle the tasks of Civil Protection and to close four Civil Protection barracks, and to continue in any event to ensure that security remains a central concern and to guarantee maximum expertise through the maintenance of the Liedekerke and Jabbeke barracks, - to determine the exact impact of these measures on the Civil Protection staff and to inform the members of the Commission thereof, - to respect the procedures for social consultation, - if the decision to close the barracks is not reconsidered, to examine how it would possibly be possible to integrate the site, buildings, personnel and equipment of the Civil Protection into the fire zone in order to ensure, at the very least, a suitable new start to the Civil Protection. It is up to the federal government to provide for ad hoc funding, not to save on security." A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Koenraad Degroote. A simple motion was tabled by Mr Conseil Degroote. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic662x.u72	Deputy Prime Minister, the Federal Police shooting range in Woluwe-Saint-Pierre would no longer meet minimum security requirements. This situation was denounced by union representatives of the police during their visit to the premises on 6 and 20 March. In this connection, a delegate of the SNPS union indicated, in addition to the difficulties of access related to the entrance door, a narrow passage and the presence of tensioned ropes, that "we also found that the emergency stop button is not always clearly indicated. In addition, there are many metal parts in the stand, which can cause ricochets or soil degradation in many places, which can lead to falls". In addition to these elements, there are health problems, which are in poor condition due to the presence of moulds and fungi on walls and ceilings. In this regard, I would like to ask you the following questions. Can you confirm these elements? If so, can you provide us with an account of the situation and the difficulties experienced on the ground by law enforcement officials? What measures have been taken to improve the situation and to enable police officers to continue training in shooting exercises? Finally, what is the status of the consultations on this subject with the municipal authorities, who claim, by the voice of the mayor, that the private operator of the premises has complied with the requirements of the SIAMU? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic662x.u73	Mr Calomne, let me first clarify the fact that the federal police do not have a firing range in Woluwe-Saint-Pierre. The shooting range to which you refer must therefore be a shooting range operated by the private sector, to which certain police services are likely to resort in case of need for training in the control of violence with firearms, in accordance with the provisions of the GPI 48. As far as your first question is concerned, the management of the shooting stand is the responsibility of the private operator in accordance with the applicable legislation in this field. With respect to the approval of the shooting stand in question, this is a local and provincial responsibility. In this case, the mayor of Woluwe-Saint-Pierre and for the administrative district of Brussels capital, the senior official. This is not within my competence, but I will not fail to raise the awareness of the competent authorities so that the police can safely use the shooting range. Similarly, the actions to be taken in relation to problems identified within the shooting range are the responsibility of the private operator. In this respect, the opinion of the fire and emergency medical aid department of the Brussels Capital Region constitutes a reference to be followed in order to bring any identified deficiencies into conformity. In this context, the municipal authorities have the means to enforce the requirements laid down by the SIAMU. Finally, if the private operator of the shooting range has failed to comply with the requirements of the SIAMU, the latter may submit a new report to the mayor so that he or she may take the measures that he or she considers appropriate to the failure(s) identified.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic662x.u74	I thank the Deputy Prime Minister for his reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic662x.u75	Debates of the European Parliament 18169 by Mr Van Hecke will be answered by the Minister for Mobility.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic662x.u76	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, since 1977 our country has been applying the summer time regime, which aims to save energy and reduce spending. Today, this system is harmonised at European level through Directive 2000/84/EC of the Parliament and of the Council adopted in January 2001. However, several institutions questioned the effectiveness and soundness of this mechanism. Thus, in 2007, the European Commission acknowledged that the savings achieved are "difficult to determine and are, in any case, relatively limited". In 2012, the Belgian Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy admitted to the Chamber that "out of the numerous studies carried out on the subject, all (with some exceptions) result in more or less the same conclusion: the effects on the energy savings achieved are limited". In addition, the change of time would be suspected, according to many public and institutional actors, of causing various negative impacts. Thus, as early as 1997, the French Senate concluded in a report that "the benefits announced or expected from the semi-annual change of the hour are not significant enough to compensate for the disadvantages felt by the populations". In terms of public health, the sudden change in biological rhythms caused by changing hours would result in sleep disorders, appetite, attention, work capacity or mood. In terms of road safety, the IBSR has seen an increase in the number of accidents due to the change of time. The livestock and milk production sectors would also be negatively affected, as would domestic animals. Finally, this regime would complicate telecommunications and international transport, knowing that some countries are applying the change of time and others are not. In his answer to my question on the subject on 18 April, your colleague the Minister of Energy, Mrs Marghem, told me that I share the analysis to a large extent and said that the expected benefits of this measure in terms of energy were very limited because of the increasingly small share of lighting in electricity consumption. She also referred to your competence on this issue. Minister, what is your position on this measure? With the information at your disposal, do you consider the change of time to be always a relevant system? Are you aware of the dangers or negative impacts of this regime, both in terms of public health, agriculture, road safety or transport? Finally, is there a framework for discussion at European level on this topic? If so, can you tell me if your services are associated with it? If so, what is the position of the federal government?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic662x.u77	Mr Calomne, I do not know if you are disturbed by summer time, but you introduced this question a second time last night at 11 p.m. I have no objective data on any savings generated by the application of the summer time system. To this end, I invite you to address my colleague from the Economy. I have no further information on the dangers or negative impacts of this system, whether in terms of public health, agriculture, road safety or transport. Nevertheless, as Mr Melchior Wathelet, who was Secretary of State for the Environment, Energy and Mobility, already pointed out in his reply on 29 May 2012 on this subject: "Opinions, positive or negative, are very much shared in this area and often depend on the sensitivity of people to these questions of time measurement." My department is solely responsible for the implementation of summer time legislation, with decisions taken at European level. However, the Council of Ministers of the European Union has not addressed this issue in the last five years. The same applies to the European Commission. The Commission has not drawn up any Green Paper or organised any public consultation on this subject in the last five years. Only DG Mobility and Transport of the European Commission has requested a study on the subject, published on 19 September 2014, under the title The application of summertime in Europe. This study does not recommend any revision of the current European legislation and, on the contrary, calls for the maintenance of a harmonised approach at European level. For your information, my answer to your question for next week will be the same!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic662x.u78	Minister, I assure you, this is a mistake and it is not due to the fact that I am particularly disturbed by the summer time device. That being said, it is a recurring theme that comes back to public opinion. Many question the relevance of this issue at this time. It is obviously necessary to deal with this issue at European level. I wanted to know if that was the case in the discussions with your counterparts. Thank you for the answer you have just given me. I will not hesitate to question your colleague in charge of the Economy in order to have a full overview of the state of the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic662x.u79	Mr President, Minister, as part of the "Security & Interior" section of your general policy note, we discussed the modernization of the National Register in 2017 with the migration of applications for access to the Register's data from a mainframe platform to an open source system. The end of migration is expected to take place in December 2017, with the ultimate goal of reducing operating costs and a serious increase in the agility and efficiency of our ICT systems, as well as reducing the carbon footprint that will result. The technological evolution towards the "open" world will include, in 2017, the stages of functional testing and performance. These will be followed by the upgrading of applications prior to production. So, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, can you clarify to me the state of the modernization of the National Register? What timetable are you planning for this? Is there an assessment of the obstacles that could be encountered in this modernization? If so, which ones? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic662x.u80	Mr Kir, I can confirm that the work on the modernization of the National Register is proceeding as planned. In the meantime, the preparatory tests and the delivery of prototypes have been closed. The migration itself will start in early July 2017 and will be carried out in phases so that it can be completed by November 2017 at the latest. The deadline I announced in the Policy Note will therefore be respected. To date, no factors have been identified that negatively affect the smooth running of the work. The progress of the work is constantly being evaluated. For now, everything is moving forward as planned.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic662x.u81	I thank the Minister for his full answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic662x.u82	Minister, in a carte blanche published on May 4 in Le Vif, lawyer Selma Benkhelifa, recounts a scene lived in Schaerbeek, at 8:20 a.m. at the stop of tram 55. About ten STIB officers, accompanied by uniformed police officers, controlled tram passengers at a time when parents accompanied the children to school. The tram is packed with moms and kids wearing big bags. Checking of tickets and ID cards takes place. "The STIB participates in the hunt for undocumented and undocumented children," she writes. The lawyer believes that such an operation does not in any way reduce crime rates or insecurity. It doesn't improve people's daily lives. No one can rejoice. Arresting children and their mothers has no other purpose than to terrorize these families and those who assist helplessly in such an action. What should we answer to our children who ask, "Mom, why are they arresting children?" In her carte blanche, the lawyer rightly explains that the law provides that with or without documents, every child is required to attend school. The undocumented children go to school and go to trams like the others. Education is a right that the State must respect, but it is still necessary to reach school. "It is the pack of honest people that hunts the child," said Jacques Prévert. Minister, do you confirm the information contained in this white card? How many people were apprehended during this check? How many of them have been released? How many passengers are still incarcerated, and why are they incarcerated? What conclusions do you draw from the figures in your possession? What position does this very sensitive situation inspire you? Do you share this inhuman approach? What is the relative cost of the means deployed by the police in connection with this operation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic662x.u83	Mr Kir, these are local initiatives that contribute to a sense of safety in public transport. They are not within my competence, but I can only encourage them. I have no doubt about the professionalism with which the checks are carried out by local police. The information provided by the police zone in Brussels-Nord indicates that it has been working for several years to carry out operations aimed at enhancing the sense of safety of public transport users and drivers. Within this framework, a unit of 46 staff was established in 2012 and patrolled daily on surface public transport networks. In order to maintain an integrated and networked approach to security issues by involving the entire social security chain, some police operations are carried out in partnership with STIB. The operation to which this white card refers is an example of this integrated approach also provided for in the overall prevention and security plan of the Brussels-Capital Region. During one hour, from 7.15 a.m. to 8.15 a.m., seven police officers took part in an operation to secure STIB agents as part of their monitoring of the stop at tram 55, 6 rue General Eenens in Schaerbeek and to support them in carrying out certain more thorough checks when required by the legal framework. While STIB issued 38 reports, the police carried out two checks of adults, but did not carry out any arrests or deprivation of liberty. As mentioned above, seven police inspectors participated in this operation for an hour during their regular work. The operation therefore incurred no additional costs to the police. I do not have the number of STIB controllers invested or the amount that this represents.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic662x.u84	I thank the minister for his answers, which are clear and show that what was in this white card does not correspond to what happened on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic662x.u85	Debates of the European Parliament 18271 and No. Mr Demon's 18272 were converted into written questions. The same applies to Question No 5, by Mr De Gucht, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of
