ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u1	Mr President, Minister, we are told by the press that in Sweden a number of Afghan asylum seekers, mainly minors, have committed suicide. This also raises the question of the mental health of asylum seekers here, especially those who have been staying here for some time. Hence my next questions. Firstly, how many of the asylum seekers who are still in the shelter were already in reception in 2015? Secondly, how many of them are still waiting for an initial interview with the Commissioner for Refugees and the Stateless? Thirdly, what are the main nationalities, expressed in percentages? Fourthly, what is the average duration of a person currently in the care facility in total? Fifthly, what averages are there for the nationalities best represented in the shelter? Sixthly, what are the criteria used at the CGVS to decide to invite for an interview? For example, we understood that Afghans were not normally dealt with until after the Syrians and the lraqs. What other criteria are used, for example the date of arrival? It is often not clear to the people on the ground either. Moreover, it appears very difficult to explain in a reception centre why a person who has the same nationality and arrived earlier in Belgium was not invited, while that is the case for a fellow countryman who arrived later. Of course, this is also in line with my previous question on the criteria used in the flow to the LOLs. Seventh, how many of the current asylum seekers have psychological guidance? What are the main nationalities, expressed in percentages? Does this correspond to those who have been in a procedure and care for a long time? Do you take the offer as sufficient? Eighthly, with regard to the Swedish situation, the prospect of expulsion would be an important factor for despair and would also cause further mental problems. Ninth, can you outline your return policy towards Afghanistan?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u2	Mrs De Coninck, I can answer your first question that it concerns 11 672 people. The information available to Fedasil shows that 499 of them are waiting for their first interview with the Commissioner for Refugees and Stateless Persons. The figures for the ten main nationalities are as follows: Afghanistan: 182 persons, Iraq: 99, Russia including Chechnya: 29, Syria: 28, Iran: 13, Armenia, Burundi and undetermined, which is probably Palestine: 11, DRC and Somalia: 10. On 31 January the average residence time was 13.2 months. The average duration of reception of the main nationalities is as follows: Afghans: 12.5 months, Iraqis: 14.3 months, Syrians: 9.4 months, Somalis: 11.8 months. The CGVS applies the following criteria. There are many legally established situations where the CGVS should deal with an asylum file as a matter of priority, such as applications for asylum from persons from a safe country of origin or applications for asylum from persons in detention or from a closed reception centre. In addition, the CGVS uses a project approach in the sense that it deals with similar files in a single package if possible. The aim is to increase the efficiency of the dossier process, to maximise the number of decisions and to eliminate delays. This also explains why the CGVS does not simply apply the FIFO principle, first in first out. Fedasil does not have statistics on the number of asylum seekers currently receiving psychological guidance. However, Fedasil is aware that it is important to pay particular attention to the mental health of asylum seekers. That is why a medical intake is organised for each asylum seeker, where all medical problems, including psychological problems, are discussed. In doing so, each reception structure has contact with mental health institutions or with external psychologists to refer asylum seekers with mental problems. Particular attention will also be paid to supporting cooperation projects on mental health and in particular to projects to facilitate access to psychiatric care. Via recruitment funds, Fesasil is currently supporting two projects in two institutions of the Brothers of Mercy, one in Grimbergen, in particular Saint-Alexius and one in Dave, in particular Saint-Martin. The minors can appeal to psychiatric care through a collaboration with PraxisP in Leuven, which you may know. The national project call recently launched by Fedasil also addressed the specific reception needs and needs of vulnerable target groups, including the provision of adapted psychiatric care. Fedasil also works with Doctors Without Borders to evaluate the impact of a new mental health support model. There are several projects that we have been setting up and expanding for years. The national project call that we orga-nize every year with the Fedasil pot, specifically for psychiatric care, is one of my priorities because there are many problems in this area. In Bierset there is also the Carda project for persons with very heavy psychological war traumas. I have visited that center and I have noticed that good work is being done there. That continues and we are paying a great deal of money for that. We are particularly attentive to this. The administration has no knowledge of such facts in the Belgian situation. In the closed centres in Belgium there is a medical framework to deal with any problems. Psychological framework is also present. An escort is also provided during the entire return journey through social assistants who monitor everything. In the case of effective return, appropriate guidance can also be provided at the airport and even in certain circumstances up to the country of origin. At European Union level, agreements have been reached with the Afghan government in the Joint Way Forward, including the return of Afghan nationals. In accordance with the Government Declaration, the necessary initiatives are being taken to encourage Afghan nationals to return voluntarily. In 2016, Fedasil and IOM organised sessions in the open centers where a representative of IOM Kabul explained the possibilities and benefits of a voluntary return to the Afghans. They may call on a more extensive rehab programme to facilitate their reintegration after their return. For the voluntary return, an offer has been developed in collaboration with IOM to support Afghans returning those wishes. For example, the return premium was doubled for six months. In addition, returners were able to make the most of their reinte-gration through on-site projects providing guidance and training through the start-up of micro-enterprises, medical care if necessary, transport, housing assistance, etc. Twenty-five people made use of it. However, if a voluntary return is not chosen, a forced return is organised. I prefer to give priority to criminal and single adult men. Since October 2016, the DVZ has organised the forced return based on the Joint Way Forward. Agreement was reached on the implification procedure and the practical implementation of the return. Any Afghan returned to Afghanistan with or without escort, unless for serious reasons relating to public order, may, on a voluntary basis, call on the ERIN project, the European return project launched in Belgium. This project provides the opportunity to obtain material support upon arrival in Afghanistan. In practice, this often involves assistance in the transit of Kabul to the region of origin, the follow-up of minor medical problems and the provision of temporary shelter. Statistics also clearly show that there are comparatively many more people leaving voluntarily than forced. In 2016, 161 Afghans left voluntarily with the assistance of IOM. In January 2017, there were 8. In 2016, 41 Afghans were forced to be removed. In January 2017 it was 1 Afghan.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u3	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your reply. I know you're doing a lot of hard work, but you have to admit that waiting over a year for your first interview is a long time for certain groups. Efforts should be made to speed up the integration process so that the parties concerned can be more clearly identified.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u4	It is very interesting to mention that these figures are averages. I've asked how many people have been in the shelter for a very long time, sometimes years. I'm really shocked because there are so many of them. There too, we are systematically working on an approach, a plan of action, in order to be able to respond to it as a matter of priority. On the one hand, we have the problem of illegal families with children who have been tried out but cannot be repatriated because the children are still in school or there are other reasons. Because we're not getting a laissez pass. Then we have the courts that decide that we still have to give shelter. These people are sometimes in our asylum centres for a very long time until the children are of age and have ended their school career. They are people who thus spend 5 to 6 years, sometimes much longer, in the shelter. What are they doing with that? There is no immediate solution. Those people aren't recognized and they don't have any papers. That's not obvious. There are also a number of people who have been in a procedure for a very long time. We have listed them and are working on a whole plan of action. That could be an interesting question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u5	Often it is about families with children who have already had a long school career. One should look at how many families we're talking about. If necessary, exceptional regularisation could be foreseen for these situations. In the Netherlands, that is what has been done. I have a proposal on this too. That is not about a lot of people, but above all in the interests of those children, it would be interesting to see what we can do there to legalize them somehow.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u6	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Ben Hamou's 16892 question was converted into a written question. Questions Nos 17249, 17648 and 17759 by Mr Kir and Mr Maingain were postponed at the request of Mr Maingain and in agreement with Mr Kir.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u7	Mr Hellings is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u8	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, at the beginning of March the press reported the death of an asylum-seeker from Azerbaijan in the closed centre of Vottem. He had just been transferred at the beginning of the week from the 127bis closed centre in Steenokkerzeel. This is a dramatic event which shows the distress of the rejected applicants and the harshness of the detention policy. As a reminder, I have already alerted you, on 17 June 2015, in committee on this issue which concerned this time two asylum seekers as well as on 19 January 2016 on the suicide of an asylum-seeker of Congolese origin. According to the spokesman for the Foreign Office, the detainee was transferred to Vottem because of his heavy case. The man had been placed in solitary confinement and was being monitored by camera. During the night, he received visits every half hour. At around 9.30 a.m. on Thursday morning, a nurse and an attendant discovered the deceased man. The SMUR went there but it was too late. A medical examiner found a natural death. Some fellow inmates dispute this version of the facts. They're talking about suspicious death because of his unsanctioned injuries. According to them, the man should have been medically cared for on the night of Wednesday to Thursday and transferred to a hospital. This new tragedy brings several questions. Can the Secretary of State inform us of the definitive findings of the investigation, of the circumstances which led to this tragedy and of measures which have been or have not been taken at the medical level to treat this person and possibly save his life? How many deaths have been reported in the closed centre since 2014? What were the reasons for these deaths? Could you break down the figures by closed centre, sex and nationality?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u9	Mr Kir, referring to your oral question about the death at the closed centre of Vottem on the night of March 1 to 2, I would like to point out that the resident was under methadone and under regular supervision given his behaviour and his past of self-injury. It was by bringing her methadone in the morning that she found her death. According to information received from forensic doctors, this is a natural death. There was nothing in the centre to prevent this death that occurred during sleep. At present, the investigation is still under way at the level of the Public Prosecutor's Office. This resident arrived in Vottem on Monday, February 27. On the morning of 28 February, the staff carried out their administrative, medical and social in-take and was immediately integrated into a normal wing with other residents. During the day, the centre's management received several complaints from wing residents about it. He threatened the residents and almost fought with several residents. As a result, management decided to place him in isolation as a safety and order measure. The next day, management decided to transfer him to a single room in the special wing. Once in this room, he threatened to hurt himself, especially by hitting his head against the sink. This is how he was placed in isolation under camera in order to monitor him constantly. In addition to the camera, there was visual surveillance of an agent every 30 minutes. On Thursday morning, March 2, a nurse and an attendant entered his cell to give him his methadone and discovered that he was not responding. The first aid workers tried to revive him and the emergency service, but to no avail. It should be noted that during his stay in Vottem, he was seen daily by the medical team and had several interviews with the staff and the director of the centre. Since 2014, there have been three deaths in closed centres, including two in 2015: a resident from Morocco who committed suicide in Merksplas in April 2015 and another from the Democratic Republic of the Congo who committed suicide in Vottem in December 2015. You also arrested me after this tragic death. In March 2017, a resident from Azerbaijan died of natural death and this is the subject of your arrest.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u10	Mr Secretary of State, I would like to thank you for the elements of your response. These regular deaths and tragic deaths are worrying. Your answer shows that work at the medical level has been done, but, in spite of everything, this failure has been achieved. It would be interesting to understand why we're getting there. Obviously, he was in a first center and then he arrives in that closed center. We try to provide answers in several ways and we can't find a solution. You talked about the different sequences that took place. There were complaints from co-residents, a solitary confinement and then a return to a single room when the situation improved and then again problems and he found himself in isolation again. And on the famous Thursday, we discover this situation. It would be interesting to think about what was the most appropriate answer. I don't know the figures for this type of situation, but three is already one too many times. Such situations should not exist. I invite you, with your services, to reflect on new and more comprehensive answers if it is possible to find them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u11	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Fernandez Fernandez 17271 will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Lanjri's 17329 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u12	Mr President, Mr Franken, at the hearing of the doctors of Section 9ter of the Office of Foreigners and of the Vice-President of the National Council of the Order of Physicians, on 14 March last in the Internal Committee devoted to medical regulation, one of your doctors informed us in substance that a call for experts had been launched by the Office of Foreigners in order to support them in their work but that there had been no applications. We were obviously very surprised. Statements that question compliance with the procedures in the knowledge that: "On the basis of the opinion of the doctor and/or expert, a decision shall be taken by the Office of Foreigners as to the basis of the application". It is said in the law that the opinion of the doctor or expert is one of the decisive elements in decision-making. Mr. Secretary of State, I have already had the opportunity to discuss with you the offer of the Selor medical consultants for the Office of Foreigners in the context of the examination of applications 9ter. Today, I am asking you about the following points. Do you confirm your administration's statement that it is not possible to use experts as required by law because of the lack of a list? If so, what initiatives are being taken to address this situation? Why not have launched a new appeal as this lack of experts hinders the optimal processing of regularisation applications and, in addition, the quality of the work of the doctors of the Office of Foreigners? Maybe you'll tell me that since I put the question, you've made this call. What is the number, expressed in full-time equivalents (FTEs), of medical consultants and experts available to the Office of Foreigners? How did this number change over the period 2014-2017? How does Mr Franken assess these figures and their evolution? What is the number of applications that doctors have made last year? How many have received positive and negative opinions?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u13	Mr President, honourable Member, I have the honour to provide you with the following information. Just so we're clear, are these questions merged? Right? So I will answer the two questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u14	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u15	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u16	I can make a global answer, but you only asked the first question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u17	I have two questions. You wanted to answer both at the same time?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u18	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u19	Then I ask my second question. In this question, I would like to ask you about the medical advice offer for the Office of Foreigners published on the Selor site and whose limit to apply was April 24. According to the content of the function described in the announcement, medical consultants will have the task of rendering opinions on applications for residence on medical grounds, among other things: "You appreciate, on the basis of the medical file submitted by the foreigner who is staying in Belgium, whether the clinical condition of the disease which he claims to be suffering meets the conditions laid down by law, i.e. that he may entail a real risk to his life or his physical integrity or a real risk of inhuman or degrading treatment if there is no adequate treatment in his country of origin or in the country where he is staying. This assessment is neither diagnostic nor prognostic and therefore you do not have a physician-patient relationship with the applicant." However, according to the Advisory Committee of Bioethics of Belgium: "When a doctor - whether an official or not - gives an opinion on a medical file, it is a medical act for which the doctor is subject to medical ethics". Thus, the medical officer of the Office of Foreigners is a doctor above all and poses a medical act by formulating a counsel. This medical act has a diagnostic component, bearing in mind that it concerns in particular "the assessment of the disease mentioned in the medical certificate, its degree of severity and the treatment deemed necessary". From a medical point of view, an assessment of a disease and its severity cannot be interpreted other than a diagnostic task followed by an indication, i.e. the evaluation of the treatment deemed necessary. The duty of the official physician differs, of course, from that of the attending and attesting physician, but at the same time there is some overlap in a medical perspective. Article 35, b., of the Code of Medical Ethics states: "The doctor may not exceed his competence. He must take the opinion of colleagues, in particular specialists, either on his own initiative or at the request of the patient, whenever it seems necessary or useful in the diagnostic or therapeutic context." Mr Secretary of State, do you not think that this approach to the function is contrary to the spirit of the law, as the Advisory Committee on Bioethics of Belgium points out? How will the future physician assess the real risk and severity of a disease if this assessment is neither diagnostic nor prognostic and if, in addition, he or she will not have a physician-patient relationship with the applicant? Are you aware of the risk of biased advice, which may have a negative impact on the admissibility of applications for medical residence? What guarantee of recourse to these notices would the applicants then have?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u20	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Kir, the experts provided for in the Royal Order of May 17, 2007, to whom the medical consultants of the Office of Foreigners may address a second opinion when they deem it necessary, as section 9ter of the Act takes the task of specifying, are appointed for a period of five years. At the end of this period, the Office launched, via Selor, a call for potential candidates. Outgoing candidates who were still on active medical service and whose contact details were up-to-date were even contacted by telephone. As no applications were submitted within the time limit announced in the appeal, this period was even renewed, without result. In all parts of the country, no doctor has applied or maintained his/her candidacy after initial contact with the Agency. I must add that the public and free trials, up to the point of lying, which were conducted for months against the Agency's doctors had a certain influence on this situation. It is incorrect to say that doctors cannot obtain a second opinion due to lack of a list. A list of pathologies is indeed provided for in the Royal Decree of 2007, which is not repealed. It is the candidates who are lacking. The administration cannot be blamed for not finding candidates if there are none. This lack does not hinder the processing of records, as on-going medical consultants should only consult with designated experts when they deem it necessary, and this has not been the case. To date, they have not questioned their administration about this lack. In case of doubt, they always formulate their opinion according to the adage "the doubt benefits the applicant". I recall that consistent case law makes it clear that the Agency's physicians should not have the same level of expertise as the applicants' treating physicians. Consultants have no diagnostic or therapeutic duties. An opinion from them, whether favourable or unfavourable, does not confirm or invalidate the diagnosis of the attending physician. I can certify that the number of consulting physicians within the Agency has always been proportional to the extent of the work. The monthly number of applications dropped from over 800 a few years ago to less than 150. It is therefore normal that the number of doctors should be reduced. The 9ter figures for the 2016 financial year can be found, month by month, on the website of the Office of Foreigners. So you can refer to it. I would point out that it is not the Bioethics Committee that determines the spirit of the laws. It was the legislator who determined the purpose, the reasons for being and the meaning of Article 9ter. This article is very clear as to the mission of the medical consultants involved in its context: it is to assess the clinical risks that may or may not emerge from a medical record communicated by abroad. The medical advisor must not make a diagnosis or prognosis. Provided that the application is technically admissible, the medical consultant shall verify whether the medical record submitted meets the requirements of the law. He does not pronounce himself on a patient since, by definition, the applicant is not his patient. The case law also confirms that this risk must be real and present – certainly not hypothetical. In Exercise 9ter, the medical consultant does not have a diagnostic or therapeutic mission; he is simply not a care provider. After ten years of exercise and more than 50,000 9ter applications, the College of Physicians never reprimanded a 9ter physician for making a diagnosis without seeing the patient. The College is indeed well aware that making diagnoses is not the mission of a 9ter doctor. It is he, and not the Ethics Committee, who has the authority to rule on the ethics of an individual physician. I have no doubt that the College and the Bioethics Committee are aware of the difference between a medical act and a diagnostic or therapeutic act. The medical advisor does not appreciate a disease but a clinical condition and only that which the applicant presents in his application. There is nothing to say that these exhibits are necessarily conclusive or complete. This is the responsibility of the applicant and not of the administration or its doctors. The same Article 9ter states explicitly that the applicant must have all information relevant to the medical assessment of his application accompanied by his request. The statutory review bodies have confirmed that the physician-counsel should not have the level of expertise of a attending physician as he cannot make a diagnosis and should not do so. Furthermore, the medical practitioner dealing with a foreign national is not obliged by Article 9ter to possess any degree of expertise; he must simply have the right to practise medicine in Belgium. You yourself respond to one of your remarks by pointing out, as confirmed by Article 9ter, that a medical consultant consults a confrere if he considers it necessary. This periphrase is explicitly found in Article 9ter. In accordance with the medical independence of the physician-counsel, it is he and he alone who considers this possible necessity. Finally, I would like to point out that the admissibility review of a 9ter application is much broader and requires the verification of other medical data only; moreover, it is the delegate of the Minister and not the physician who decides on the examination and its conclusion. The medical opinion 9ter represents a doctor's assessment of medical information provided by an applicant 9ter. This assessment is solely a matter for the authority and independence of the physician-counsel if the doctor-counsel considers that he can do so without the advice of a colleague or without further information. The law allows him to appreciate freely. Each external injunction would only limit and violate its independence on which, however, the very essence of medical assessment depends. The medical information provided by the applicant will reflect the applicant's diligence. It may or may not be complete, serious or not, the law admits the possibility that the medical aspect of a 9ter application may be so unserious that it allows even a very rapid assessment, that is, prima facie. I would remind you that the medical opinion is not necessarily binding on the delegate. Thus, a substantive favourable medical opinion does not oblige the delegate who also appreciates non-medical aspects such as public order. On the other hand, it was the law that required the delegate to declare the application inadmissible by an unfavourable medical opinion of admissibility. Finally, it is still possible that the doctor who has given a favourable opinion on admissibility may, afterward, give an unfavourable opinion on the merits. Since the opinions of doctors are neither medical decisions nor residence decisions, they must always be incorporated into the reasons for the subsequent residence decision. The latter may be subject to appeal before the known bodies, namely the Constitutional Court and the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u21	Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Franken for his answers. I am not going to deal here with the issue of medical regulation and the way it is carried out. Our opinions differ. Mr Secretary of State, you have once again recalled your approach, which is a purely legal and administrative approach that does not take into account the human and medical situation of many foreigners who apply for medical regulation. You do not take into account the opinion of the Advisory Committee on Bioethics of Belgium, but we will come back to this debate as I, along with some colleagues, table a bill for another policy on medical regulation. I'd like to go back to the call for medical consultants. If the call is made, it's because there's not enough. In your answer, basically, I have two elements. First of all, you explain to us that there are fewer requests for Article 9ter, which I can understand. But if we make a call, it's good that there aren't enough medical consultants, otherwise we wouldn't. What is worrying is that no doctor is applying or that those who have applied do not maintain their candidacy. Those are your words. You said that in your answer: "There is no application, that is, when there is an application, it is not maintained". I would like to ask you if you are not worried about this as a minister. You call for applications, doctors don't respond. Maybe there's something for reflection or analysis. In general, when we fail, Mr. Franken, we question each other and try to understand all the reasons that lead us to failure. I imagine you're busy, with your firm and the administration, trying to figure out why we're getting to such a failure. Among the avenues that can lead to failure, there may be the professional approach to physician work, ethics.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u22	You record the policy of medical regulation in a purely formalistic and administrative approach. You do not hear the Order of Physicians, the Advisory Committee on Bioethics of Belgium. At no time do you consider that their views should be taken into account. I imagine any doctor worthy of that name must be struck by this lack of interest in his art. For them, a medical act remains a medical act. In its opinion, the Bioethics Advisory Committee recalls that the physician cannot exceed his jurisdiction. He must take the opinion of colleagues, in particular specialists, either on his own initiative or at the request of the patient, whenever it seems necessary or useful in the diagnostic or therapeutic context. Even though he's a medical consultant, he's still a doctor and he's involved in a medical act. But for you, he has to do an administrative act. That is a point of view that I obviously do not share. Mr Secretary of State, have you considered why doctors do not remain candidates or apply? How many medical consultants are currently working for the Office of Foreigners? How many did you want to reach with the Selor's call for applications?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u23	Mr President, Mr Kir, I do not have these figures here, but I will communicate them to you today. It is clear that you have an argument. If one makes a call, it is of course the intention that someone should respond to it. But the number of applications has also fallen sharply. It's not that there's really a problem. If there was a doctor, it would also be welcome. With one or two doctors there, it would be fine. I'll get you the figures on the number of doctors today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u24	Mr Secretary of State, I will wait for the figures to continue this debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u25	Mr Secretary of State, you know that at the end of 2012 the Code of Belgian nationality was rewritten. In particular, the procedure for obtaining Belgian nationality and the procedure for naturalisation was fundamentally reformed. Not only legal residence, but also language, integration, economic participation and good behavior have become part of this procedure. You will also understand that we follow the application of these regulations every year with interest. In view of this, I have received a number of figures from the Minister of Justice in respect of 2016. This shows that in the case of naturalisations based on the new legislation, there were 13 cases of naturalisation by Parliament. If we look at the year preceding that, there were still 8 110 awards of Belgian nationality on the basis of the naturalisation procedure. As regards the number of Belgian nationals granted, this was 20 196 in 2016, of which 10 239 were granted Belgian nationality on the basis of the nationality of the father or mother of the child on the basis of Article 8. If we compare the figure 10 239 with that of 2015, where there is 853, we see a more than tenfold increase in the number of grants of Belgian nationality on the basis of the nationality of the mother or father. Mr Secretary of State, you have stated in the press that these figures would not be correct. Our concern was to be vigilant about the problem of false recognition. This is a real problem when we read the findings of the public prosecutors' office and the College of Attorneys General. In some cases, it appears that more than 10 to 17 children have been recognised by one and the same man for the purpose of family reunification and residence on the territory. That is a real problem. Our concern is also to address this issue of false recognition, no more than trafficking in human beings and even worse with regard to children. We have also taken initiatives to this end, and I am pleased to note that the government is also trying to do so. Mr Secretary of State, I have the following questions to clarify and understand the problem. What are you basing yourself on to say that the Minister of Justice's figures would not be correct? If they are wrong, can you provide the correct figures? What do you, as Secretary of State responsible for administrative simplification, do to prevent such mistakes? Can you give figures on the number of family reunifications based on the nationality of the Belgian child from 2012 to 2016? Can you split up according to whether those children were born in the country or abroad? Can you give an overview of the number of visa holders as a result of family reunification based on the Belgian nationality of the child and, where appropriate, split up those figures? Mr Secretary of State, you do not have to read the figures for me. It's enough for me if you can deliver them to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u26	Mrs Van Cauter, in response to the reply of my colleague, Minister Geens, and in view of the huge increase in the figures relating to the granting of Belgian nationality under Article 8 of the Code, I asked my custody minister for the Interior. His cabinet confirmed to me that the communicated figures, in particular an increase of 805 awards in 2015 to 10 239 awards in 2016, were incorrect. This is a technical math error in coding. So it doesn't add up. There is no increase times ten in one year in that category. That's just a mistake. If you ask me, a figure has been forgotten and goes up from, for example, 8 500 to 10 000 or from 850 to 1 023. Something must have gone wrong somewhere. However, since this matter does not fall within my competence, I would ask you to address your question on these figures to Minister Jambon and/or Minister Geens. Something must have been printed wrong or gone wrong. I don't know. It's definitely not right, there's no increase times 10. One night I got a phone call from a reporter who asked me if that was true. You know the route very well, Mrs Van Cauter. We worked very well together not so long ago, when I was a Member of Parliament, for the abolition of the Rapid Bell Act. There must have been a mistake somewhere. With regard to your figures, I don't have any. If you submit your question in writing, I will provide the figures for family reunifications, and also the categories with a Belgian child, whether or not born in Belgium. I can get you those numbers. Whether they have become Belgian is another matter. Those files are in the D.A.'s office. You know that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u27	Mr Secretary of State, if I understand you correctly, at first glance, you think that the figures are wrong, without really knowing exactly what is happening.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u28	(...) It is not right that there is an increase from 800 to 10 000. My idea is that somewhere a number has been forgotten.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u29	This also means that in the total number of grants of Belgian nationality, with all the different categories, on the basis of the nationality of one of the parents...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u30	... was probably higher in 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u31	... a manifest error would have crept in. One made that mistake once, but one is that one then continues to pass it on to all echelons.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u32	I repeat, it is not my jurisdiction. You are asking me now because I said something about that. They asked me. I got a phone all of a sudden. I was asked for my response to that. I said that I was not competent to do so, but that I knew something about it and that it seemed particularly strong to me. I had it checked, and those numbers aren't correct. How, what and who? It is certainly not for me to say that, but I have been confirmed that the figures communicated are not correct due to a technical error. I am not blaming anyone, not a single colleague. There must have been a mistake. In one of my written answers, something technically went wrong once in the Foreign Affairs Office. Mistakes are human.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u33	So I must address myself to the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u34	I think it might be for the best.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u35	And you will give me a written answer to my last two questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u36	I will reply in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u37	Do I have to re-apply those questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u38	No, in good cooperation, I'll get you those answers as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u39	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u40	You're also accusing me of fake recognition. In this context, it is very important for you to know that we in the government are fully engaged in this. We know each other in there. Initiatives have already been taken. I am sure that you will be able to convince your fellow party members, for the last small stumbling blocks, to drop the final objections.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u41	In my opinion, there is almost an agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u42	With regard to naturalizations, since I am a member of the Committee on Naturalizations, I can say that we are looking at the historical stock at an accelerated rate. In general, the number of naturalisations may have increased, but it may have been misrecorded.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u43	Président: Brecht Vermeulen.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u44	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Lanjri's 17443 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u45	Mr Secretary of State, the CGRA scrutinizes applications for asylum and grants international protection, if any: refugee status or subsidiary protection. The interview lasts three hours and analyses the applicant's objective fears of persecution, the lack of protection by the applicant's national authorities and the country's security environment. To this end, the protection officer is supported by a documentation service, CEDOCA. Mr Secretary of State, what is the weight of the analyses and reports of the CEDOCA in the decision taken by the protection officer? How many people do they work in this service? What's the profile you're looking for? Is the protection officer free to appeal to the CEDOCA during the interview or is it an obligation? How does the protection officer, together with the CEDOCA, examine the arguments put forward by the asylum seeker?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u46	Mrs Jadin, I am willing to provide you with information on the organisation of work at CGRA. However, CGRA is an independent body. The collection of information on the situation in the country of origin is accompanied by the obligation to cooperate on behalf of the asylum authority, which echoes the obligation to cooperate on behalf of the asylum-seeker. This implies that the latter is expected to bring all possible evidence to demonstrate the existence of a well-founded fear of persecution or a real risk of serious harm. The importance of the CEDOCA reports varies greatly from case to case. A report may have very different functions. It can serve as background information and provide an overview of the situation in the country of origin, it can be used to determine the policy and motivation of decisions when considering whether or not to grant subsidiary protection status due to security conditions or the war situation; it can be used to gauge the credibility of the facts invoked by the asylum seeker. With regard to its composition, the CEDOCA is a team of 37 people - 33 full-time equivalents. It consists of a staff of three persons (responsible, deputy and deputy chief librarian). There are 28 researchers attached at level A. The intranet team consists of two people. There are seven administrative collaborators - level B or C administrative assistant - who provide assistance to information management researchers, who deal with foreign applications, intranet, police relations to verify the authenticity of identity documents. Each CGRA protection officer can rely on an effective database to gather the relevant information he or she needs for the processing of his or her files. The protection officer may ask a specific supplementary question to CEDOCA researchers. The examination of an asylum application is a complex task. This requires a good knowledge of the objective situation prevailing in the country of origin and of asylum regulations. For this reason, CGRA ensures that adequate training and support are provided to all its employees. In addition, this requires good preparation of hearings and good cooperation between asylum seekers. It is up to the protection officer after the hearing to assess all the elements, to take into account the positive or negative points and to prepare a proposal for a decision. In each of these steps, each CMRA protection officer can count on a supervisor coach. There is a supervisor coach responsible for the supervision of decisions and general support to these protection officers per unit of four to five officers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u47	Mr Secretary of State, I thank you for providing this extremely interesting information because we do not know much about this service. I'll read your answers carefully.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u48	Secretary of State, I refer to an article in The Last Hour. CGRA is responsible for granting or withdrawing international protection. In 2016, 46 reports of possible fraud were forwarded to CGRA for study. The refugee must therefore come and explain to the Office of the Commissioner General who will decide whether or not to continue. With a view to avoiding fraud, our country intends to develop its cooperation with neighbouring countries such as the Netherlands, Germany and France. Mr Secretary of State, when these people are interviewed by the CGRA, what are the main reasons given? Is the withdrawal of residence automatically linked to the withdrawal of the right of residence in Belgium? On the withdrawals made in 2016, how many people were in this situation? When could a structural partnership be established between the Netherlands, Germany, France and, of course, Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u49	CGRA is the independent body responsible for examining asylum applications. According to my information, the evidence cited by the asylum-seekers concerned can be very diverse in nature. CGRA reviews these files on an individual basis. However, it does not have statistics or an overview to reflect this specific issue. After the Commissioner-General has withdrawn the rejection status, a decision to withdraw the right of residence remains necessary. Currently, three files are being examined by the Agency for possible withdrawal of residence. Here I have the very interesting figures for holiday refugees. In addition, I signed a declaration of intent with my counterpart from the Netherlands and a practical agreement was reached between our administrations last December. My aim is to do the same with France, Germany and other Member States. As far as Germany is concerned, the draft text of the declaration of intent will be discussed with the Office of the German Minister of the Interior, Mr Thomas de Maizière. I hope that this text can be signed this summer. In any case, I planned to go to Berlin with Mr Jambon on 31 May next. Perhaps we can then sign, I hope, at least. In addition, an operational meeting is planned for the end of June between an Office delegation and the Bundespolizei of the Düsseldorf and Cologne airports. The Agency already receives informal reports from the German airport police. With France, informal contacts already existed but, in view of the electoral effervescence, it is a little more difficult at the moment. I think you'll understand that. After the elections, I will take the initiative to conclude a declaration of intent. The Belgian project was also presented at an EASO (European Asylum Support Office) conference, where discussions were held on the possibility of withdrawing the statutes of international protection. Other EU Member States have shown great interest in the way in which Belgium manages this issue. Some states – Switzerland or Italy, for example – have already made contact with my services, as they are also confronted with similar frauds. Secondly, I have established a cooperation with the Foreign Affairs which Mr Reynders is responsible for, in order to raise the awareness of our Belgian embassies and consulates. Last week, Foreign Affairs sent an e-mail instruction at the request of Mr Reynders and myself. Shortly thereafter, initial reports were recorded. Within two hours of sending the e-mail, we received the first reaction from Jerusalem from a person who lives in Gaza and wants to return to Belgium for medical reasons, in order to obtain treatment. I don't know how she found herself there... If I'm talking about it, it's to show you that the e-mail technique is very effective, since our consulates receive a lot of people every day. Finally, since yesterday, it is also possible for cities and municipalities to consult this project via Gemcom, an information platform for them. As the refugee travel documents leave from the provinces to the communes, they can be partners in the fight against this fraud. You can therefore see that I am making every effort to detect it and decide, if necessary, to withdraw the status. Previously, no controls were conducted. Since last year, we have been doing it systematically. Although this is a small group of refugees, we must vigorously prosecute those who commit abuse. Of the 46 files submitted to CGRA in 2016, 14 were withdrawn and six were retained. The remaining 26 files are still under investigation by CGRA. For this year, as at 30 April, thirty-eight cases were transmitted. Since we started this project, eighty-four cases of holiday refugees have been introduced. This is a considerable increase, mainly due to the exchange of structural information with our neighbouring countries and the good cooperation with the Belgian airport police.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u50	Mr Secretary of State, your answer is, once again, very substantiated. Some information is quite surprising. Indeed, I see, like you, this slight increase. It is likely also the result of the establishment of structural relations to better detect this phenomenon. I also believe that the granting of a status must meet certain criteria. That is why it is difficult to understand how someone who seeks to flee his country can, at some point, return to it despite the status granted to him.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u51	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, at the hearing of the doctors of Section 9ter of the Office of Foreigners and of the Vice-President of the National Council of the Order of Physicians on 14 March, one of the doctors informed us, in essence, of the lack of training envisaged by your administration, which causes some of them to seek by themselves to improve, with a key impact on the quality of their work. As a result of this, I asked your colleague Minister Vandeput, in charge of the Civil Service, about compliance with the law, knowing that Article 11, § 2 of the Royal Decree of 2 October 1937 on the status of State agents states that "the State official has the right to training relevant to his work and to continuing training with a view to the development of his professional career. The State official shall follow, with attention and willingness to develop his or her skills, the training necessary for the performance of his or her duties." However, these doctors are, as State officials, under the federal statute, subject to the provisions of this Order. The minister pointed out to me that: "Medical training is the responsibility of the organizations to which the doctors belong. It is the SPF concerned that is responsible for the salary envelope of its agents, and therefore also for the training envelope. In my answer, I told you that at the level of Asylum and Migration, I think there are no identified doctors." Mr. Francken, do you confirm this official's statement that continuing training is not organized for doctors of the Foreign Office? If so, what initiatives are being taken to correct this situation? If not, what are the plans for the Medical Consultants of the Office of Foreigners? Is it permissible, under such conditions, for medical opinions to be taken into account, since they are given by doctors who have not received specific training in a specialty for which the Office of Foreigners does not provide training? Finally, what is the annual budget for these training courses?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u52	Mr President, Mr Kir, I would like to point out that the mission of the medical consultants to the Office of Foreigners is neither diagnostic nor therapeutic. The settled case law of the appeal bodies confirms that doctors must therefore not have the same level of expertise as the doctor who signed the medical certificate supporting the 9ter application, since their opinions must neither confirm nor invalidate any diagnosis. I would point out, moreover, that the 1980 law does not impose any particular level of expertise on the foreign doctor, except that of having the right to practise medicine in Belgium. A general practitioner can therefore very well make a psychiatric diagnosis in a 9ter application without having undergone psychiatric training. The medical consultant of the Office of Foreigners who does not make or contradict any diagnosis is therefore a fortiori not bound to a particular expertise. He does not comment on a patient but on a number of documents submitted by the patient. As Mr.Roosemont, Director General of the Office of Foreigners, was able to clarify during his hearing in committee, on 21 February 2017, the recruitment of additional doctors is, for the moment, more important in order to achieve the applicants' goals of rapid treatment. For the time being, it is not possible to send medical consultants to courses without significantly delaying their major tasks of producing notices in the applications under consideration. While some members of the Order of Physicians seem to insist on the level of expertise of 9ter medical consultants, the real task of these medical consultants, which is therefore not the diagnosis, still seems to escape them despite many details provided to both the National Council and the provincial councils of the Order since the fall of 2013. It is sufficient to read the contributions of some doctors to the so-called White Paper on residence permits for medical reasons (9ter) to realize this ignorance.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u53	Mr Franken, I am not at all satisfied with your answers. Doctors work for the Foreign Office. Like any State official, the Minister responsible for Public Training recalls the right to training relevant to his work as well as to continuing training for the development of his professional career. It's a worker's right. Here, in addition to the legislation that provides for continuing training, the right to training for public officials, you also have requests from doctors themselves. The doctors of the Office of Foreigners speak of a training deficit planned by the Office of Foreigners which prompts them themselves, on their own initiative, to go to trainings to try to deliver the most appropriate opinions possible. You don't have a word of empathy for these doctors who work on a daily basis in medical regulation. You fall behind the definition of 9ter, a formal approach, an administrative approach, a systematic approach, but which does not take into account the fact that medical acts are laid down here. I am obviously not satisfied. You didn't say anything about training. There is a legal obligation of the State to provide training for workers. I would like to know what initiatives you are going to take. What budgets are you planning for the training of medical consultants?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u54	The incident is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u55	Mr. Franken, I was talking to you! What did you say? You didn't answer. I'd like to know, Mr. President. Is there no training for medical consultants? They don't have the right as government officials to take training? That's what you're busy saying.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u56	Mr. Kir, I said the incident was over.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u57	Mr President, allow me to have an answer to the question I have asked!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u58	No, Mr. Kir. I said the incident was closed. By the way, your last question was: "Je me demande si..."
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u59	Yes...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u60	That seemed to me to be a rhetorical question, which fits in with your reply, but it is not an additional question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u61	Okay.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u62	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, the recent hearings organised by the Chamber's Committee of the Interior on medical regulation, following the publication of the report of the Federal Ombudsman, have stressed the importance of respect for medical ethics by the doctors of the Office of Foreigners in the examination of applications for residence based on Article 9ter. The Medical Section of the Office of Foreigners consists of a French-language medical administrative unit, a Dutch-language medical administrative unit and a medical assessment cell. The administrative units are composed of administrative officers who take decisions on applications for authorisation and extension of stay for medical reasons. The Medical Assessment Unit is composed of medical advisers who provide medical advice on applications for authorization and extension of stay for medical reasons, including two doctors-coordinators. The Medical Secretariat provides support to the Medical Evaluation Unit. The report of the Federal Ombudsman pointed out that the evaluation procedure currently organised within the Medical Section raises questions with regard to compliance with the Code of Medical Ethics. The physician-coordinator is responsible for the assessment of the physician-counsellors. The assessment of the physician-coordinator, of rank A3, is carried out by the head of the Medical Section, who is not a doctor and who is of rank A2. While there is no objection to a functional chief evaluating a staff member above his/her rank, the evaluator should have received delegation from the line manager. On the basis of the information available to the Federal Ombudsman, no such formal delegation exists. Is that correct? The fact that a doctor-coordinator subject to compliance with the Code of Medical Ethics is assessed by a hierarchical official who is not subject to the Code of Medical Ethics raises a serious question. The Office's doctors are now stuck in an administrative structure and hierarchy. They must be able to carry out their tasks independently, in accordance with the Code of Medical Ethics. It is my responsibility that the position of head of the Medical Section will soon be available due to a departure from the pension. Given the evidence highlighted by the Federal Ombudsman, this is an opportunity to review the organization of the Medical Section as a whole. In this regard, it seems logical that a physician should be in the direction of the Medical Section. Failing this, the evaluation of doctors-coordinators should at least be carried out by a doctor who is also subject to compliance with the Code of Medical Ethics. Mr. Secretary of State, what are your intentions regarding the Medical Section of the Foreign Office? What measures do you recommend to respond to the recommendations of the Federal Ombudsman? Is this not an opportunity to resolve this problem by putting a doctor at the head of this Medical Section? Moreover, in view of this departure, how will the selection procedure be organised?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u63	Mrs Fonck, I am currently working on a proposal for a legislative amendment to dissociate the procedure for subsidiary protection from regularisation for medical reasons. It is not my intention to reform the medical aspect of the demand for regularisation. Of course, the Ombudsman's recommendations will be taken into account as far as possible. In the federal function, it is not required that an officer's assessor be necessarily of a higher rank than that of the assessor. Preferably, the evaluator is the assessor's functional supervisor. This does not necessarily mean that it is of a different hierarchical degree. It is therefore possible that an A2 rank evaluates an A3 rank. The person who evaluates the physician-coordinator at the Agency is not a physician, but he or she must not assess the physician's medical abilities, only his or her abilities as coordinator of his or her fellow physicians. This is a management judgment and not a medical judgment. From the beginning of the formation of the "Exceptional stay" Directorate, its organizational chart provided for and indicated the evaluators of the various cells and sections. This organizational chart shall be endorsed by both the head of the Directorate and the Director-General of the Office. The time has come to put an end to the myth of the medical non-independence of the Office's doctors. We've been doing this for four years without giving any evidence. The Ombudsmen's reports have not found any. You do not quote any medical prescriptions that may have been given by doctors to non-physicians. We choose the words we want, but pretend that the Agency's doctors are stuck in an administrative structure when they do not receive a medical injunction from non-doctors, on the one hand, and that, on the other hand, it is the law that reserves to them a role and a mission limited by that of the minister's delegates is merely a caricature. It should also be recalled that the 9ter procedure is not a diagnostic or therapeutic procedure, but a residence procedure. As the Director General of the Office has already pointed out during his hearing, the Agency's physicians have opportunities to consult and exchange views on similar matters. Ensuring the monitoring of this consultation is exactly the current task of the coordinating physician. According to the terms of the 1992 Act, computerized management of medical data must be carried out under the supervision of a healing practitioner. This is the case with the Agency, and the doctor who performed this task was one of the three doctors who were interviewed on March 14. In addition, the 1980 Act also subjects doctors and delegates of the Office to the same degree of professional discretion as provided for in article 458 of the Criminal Code. To be very clear, I haven't changed anything in practice. I have not given instructions for medical regularization from my office as Secretary of State or as a political leader. Our policy on this issue is the same as that of Mr. Di Rupo's government, and that of the previous government when Mr. Wathelet held this position. I haven't changed anything. I want to be very clear. I'm not worried about the questions, the more there are, the more interesting it is. But I didn't give any instructions on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u64	Mr. Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. The law has not been amended, in any case not for two years. The question here is not the law but its application. You say that there is no problem, that the fact that a non-physician, in fine, evaluates and is the hierarchy of doctors does not pose a problem. I still have to make two observations. Let us first consider all the signals sent by the Ombudsman's services. Then what does the Director General of the Office of Foreigners say? He considers that a doctor who does not make a diagnosis and who does not pilot treatments is not subject to the same ethical rules as others. And that, Secretary of State, is not acceptable. It is, on its part, an interpretation and a personal application of the rules of ethics. Medical ethics applies to all physicians, whether or not they make diagnoses, whether or not they make treatments, regardless of where they work and whatever function they occupy. One of the knots is here. You are talking about the complete independence of the Office's doctors, so I must recall that your Director General of the Office did not take into account the ethical rules. You do not react to the fact that there is no consultation when the files are very complex. And the files are often. It makes sense for a doctor not to know everything. But there is no consultation, no connection with doctors who would be specialized in these complex pathologies. My goal is to make positive progress on these issues. Since a replacement must take place, given the departure from the pension of the management of this medical section, I once again plead for a physician to pilot this section, which would allow us to evolve, in accordance with the ethical codes applicable to all, including the doctors of the Office of Foreigners.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u65	Mr Secretary of State, there has been much to do in the media about the way in which LGTBs are treated in Chechnya. We have reports of serious violations of their rights, including putting them in detention camps. Sexual orientation is one of the grounds on which asylum can be applied for under the Convention on Refugees. I thought it would be interesting to look at this dimension, the asylum dimension, refugees, asylum seekers and so on. Mr President, first of all, how many asylum applications from Chechnya were there in Belgium in 2015 and 2016? Can you establish an increase in the first months of 2017? That is perhaps because of the reports about the treatment of those people there. Secondly, do you know about asylum applications from Chechnya on the basis of the sexual orientation and gender identity criteria? If so, how do you respond to that? What about such requests from Russia in general? Are your services familiar with these specific, sensitive issues? Thirdly, how is this issue dealt with in the asylum shelter? Are there any adapted facilities? Can you explain this?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u66	Mr Secretary of State, I would like to ask you about the situation of LGBT people in Chechnya. A resolution was adopted in plenary last week, which strongly condemns all violations of LGBT rights in Chechnya. Hundreds of men, allegedly homosexuals, were reportedly abducted in Chechnya and subjected to torture. All these ill-treatments have reportedly been committed with the greatest impunity and the perpetrators are very rarely condemned. Would you be prepared to grant humanitarian visas to LGBT people wishing to flee their country, as they no longer feel safe? Have you ever received requests from these people who are in great difficulty in their country?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u67	Thank you, colleague. No statistics are available on the ethnic background or region of origin within the countries of origin of asylum seekers. I would like to point out that the first step is to assess the asylum application by the CGIS. It shall carry out this task independently taking into account the definitions and procedures laid down by law; the situation in the country of origin and the elements introduced by the asylum seekers. The verification of the way in which the CVGS assesses asylum applications and their compliance with law, law and international and European standards is carried out by an independent college, the Council for Foreign Affairs Disputes. We cannot intervene in this as executive and legislative powers. The CVGS has been thoroughly prepared and equipped for the treatment of asylum applications submitted by persons at risk of persecution for gender-related reasons including sexual orientation. This is true of Russia, as is the case of many other countries of origin. There are quite a few requests based on sexual orientation. The guidance of LGTBI asylum seekers, like that of every resident, is an important focus for Fedasil. In recent years, interfederal action plans against gay and transphobia have been launched focusing on tackling violence and different forms of discrimination, including within asylum seekers' reception structures. Fedasil is also carrying out a study on the identification and reception of vulnerable asylum seekers within all the structures of the reception network. The aim is to evaluate existing practices and provide recommendations and tools to improve the reception conditions of vulnerable residents, including LGTBI asylum seekers. Fedasil also supports the Save Havens project and decided to extend the financial support to the project for a year in 2017 due to its positive impact. With the Save Havens II project, the Flemish Holebi and Transgender Dome çavaria aims to contribute to the reception and support of LGTBI asylum seekers and recognised refugees. This project provides for the following activities. Firstly, the organisation of a two-day training course for counsellors and social workers from the reception centres, lawyers and other relevant groups; Secondly, the extension of the content of the e-learning modules. The e-learning platform currently consists of 4 modules. Everything one wants to know about LGTBIs and human rights, from the closet and identity and religion and culture. Each module consists of different lessons with a final test each time. The platform is currently accessible to everyone after registration and acceptance by çavaria. In collaboration with Fedasil, this e-learning platform will be translated into French and further distributed to the entire Fedasil reception network. This platform will be available in French in the coming weeks. Recruitment and training of reference persons in reception centres in north region. Organising collective meetings for LGBTI asylum seekers. Developing an online information bundle for LGBTI asylum seekers in six languages. As part of the new Interfederal Action Plan Against Homofoob And Transfoob Violence, Fedasil has also committed itself to ensuring continuity in the guidance of LGBTI asylum seekers and mainstreaming of specific actions and good practices related to LGBTI asylum seekers in the reception network. This concerns the identification and analysis of different projects and activities for LGBTI asylum seekers in the reception network as well as the identification of the different actors involved in supporting LGBTI asylum seekers. The aim is to develop and exchange common practices. Furthermore, there is still a monthly meeting for LGTBQI asylum seekers from Rainbows United. Rainbows United is an activity that was launched as part of Fedasil's AHHA-aSOSda project. This is organised in Brussels by Coordination Holebi Bruxelles, Merhaba, Omnia, Why Me and Rainbowhouse Brussels. In connection with the adapted provision, Fedasil always tries to offer an appropriate shelter, according to the specific needs of the individual. With regard to humanitarian visas, I have the honour to inform you that every application for a humanitarian visa will be examined on the basis of the elements of the file. If requests for humanitarian visas are received, they will of course also be examined. There are a lot of questions about this, of course, but that is for Minister Reynders. I do not necessarily need to speak on this, but I also have many questions about the practice in Chechnya in the field of hole-bitches. If requests for humanitarian visas come from that region, we will certainly look at them, as we do in other regions, as you know.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u68	Mr Secretary of State, I would like to ask you to show a particular sensitivity to this, especially as regards reception. I would also ask you to be vigilant if there is an increase, a peak in the number of asylum applications for that reason. This can be explained, of course, by the way in which they are treated in Chechnya. One thing's not entirely clear to me. I have asked you for a number of figures, statistics on the number of asylum applications. You say there are no statistics on this. A little further in your answer, however, you say that there are quite a few requests based on sexual orientation. If there are quite a few applications, you have to have numbers, otherwise you can't say that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u69	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I hope that your services will be humane in dealing with these cases, because we cannot remain insensitive to the situation of LGBT people in Chechnya.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u70	Mr President, on the question of statistics, I would like to point out that they exist. Mr Di Rupo asks each year, through his written question, the only written question per year that I receive from Mr Di Rupo about the number of recognitions based on gender and sexual orientation. So there are statistics. I have already replied, as I recall, to Mr Di Rupo. So they have to exist for sure. However, there is a misunderstanding. There are no statistics for Chechnya. Chechnya is counted among Russia. Russia is very big. It could also be people from Pakistan or from Russia itself. Holebies in Russia are in a very problematic situation everywhere and not just in Chechnya. That is why the answer has been given. The statistics on holebi-relatedness are encoded by the CGVS. That does not happen 100 % correctly, but there are statistics. I'll deliver them. If you wish, I can deliver them to the committee. I don't have a problem delivering them again. Soon it will be the Gay Parade, where this issue is also the central theme. I'll have them whisked up today and delivered to the chairman.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u71	Mr Minister, I would like to ask you about the situation of refugees who arrived in Belgium a few months ago and who are, for some, still waiting for a decision on their future. No information is given to certain refugee candidates on the dates of interviews with the CGRA, or even on the waiting period on the decision on their status, when they arrived in Belgium many months ago. This is particularly true in Tournai, where a few refugee candidates have been waiting for news for more than fifteen months, creating a feeling of uncertainty about their future. Could you tell me what the average waiting time has been since summer 2015 for refugee candidates, in order to have a decision on their status? How do you intend to ensure that the follow-up to the processing of refugee candidates' files is more effective?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u72	It is true that some asylum seekers have been waiting for a decision for more than 15 months. My answer to a question from Mrs De Coninck at the beginning of the committee goes in the same direction. This situation is due to a number of factors. First and foremost, the number of asylum seekers has increased sharply, particularly in the second half of 2015, as you know. Secondly, an adequate and high-quality review of asylum applications does not allow the backlog to be resolved in the very near future. At my request, the Government has made additional resources available for a substantial strengthening of the Agency, the CGRA and the CCE. These bodies have done their utmost to recruit and train additional staff as soon as possible. However, commitments and training take time. In addition, processing a file in the best quality conditions also requires time. Each file must be examined in detail and individually. Special efforts are being made to eliminate the backlog as soon as possible. In the meantime, the backlog in the Agency has been reduced. CGRA is fully committed to the elimination of the backlog. CGRA's total workload peaked at 18,000 cases in April 2016. Since then, this workload has decreased. The number of cases pending as at 1 April was 13,000. Some have to wait more than fifteen minutes, but this does not mean that all asylum seekers have to wait all this time. For many asylum-seekers, a decision is taken in a much shorter time frame. In addition, for certain categories of asylum seekers, priority treatment is to be applied, e.g. for detained persons and for nationals of safe countries of origin etc., in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u73	Thank you, Minister. I have noted that you have hired staff and that you are going to tackle the backlog. We can conclude, I suppose, that the problem of the people who have been waiting for a response in Tournai for the past 15 months will be solved. We must also put ourselves in their place. Waiting for more than 15 months can create stress that is never good for anyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u74	Mr President, Secretary of State, on 26 July 2016, I asked you a written question about Georgia, which, contrary to the opinion of the Commissioner for Refugees and the Stateless, you placed on the list of safe countries. I received your reply on 14 April 2017, so nine months later. I also asked you for a copy of the opinion of the CGVS. However, I did not receive it and I am therefore obliged to ask you orally. Mr Secretary of State, can you give me a copy of the opinion of the CGVS? Then, can you go into more detail as to why the government considers that positive developments in Georgia are sufficiently important? That was your argument in your answer to put Georgia on that list of safe countries. Exactly what evolutions are you talking about?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u75	Mr President, the opinions of the CGVS are not public and I cannot give them to you. These have never been public and have never been delivered to the press or to Parliament. So I won't. The opinion of the CGVS indicated that, since the 2012 elections, a new leadership team in Georgia had taken steps to restore democracy to the rule of law. Furthermore, the CGSS reported that the situation with regard to the legal status, the application of the legal provisions and the general political conditions had evolved in a positive way. The Foreign Affairs Services also recommended that the political situation and the security situation in Georgia were sufficiently stable to add the country to the list. In this context, I would like to add that in its opinions for the establishment of the list of safe countries of 2017 the CGVS does make a positive assessment of Georgia this time and therefore shares the Government's conclusion that the positive changes in Georgia are such that it can be assumed that there is no general need for international protection for Georgians. It is therefore good news that Georgia is now considered a safe country by the CGVS. Over the next few weeks, I will present the list of safe countries to the government. I'm still waiting for the advice from the State Department that's almost ready. In 2016, 242 asylum applications were submitted by Georgians. The CGVS took 104 decisions in that year. Only in 1.2 percent of cases did the CGVS decide to grant the Staff Regulations. In 2017, 30 decisions were taken so far, none of which were positive. This illustrates once again that there is no general need for international protection for Georgians. Following the announcement that Georgia would be added to the list of safe countries in July 2016, we noticed a marked decrease in the number of asylum applications. While 24 Georgians applied for asylum on average per month during the first six months of the year, this decreased to around 17 people per month in the second half of 2016. However, we will continue to closely monitor the situation in the light of visa liberalisation for Georgians, which entered into force on 28 March this year. It is now good to evaluate in the coming months whether visa liberalisation will lead to an increased influx. In any case, we will have to wait a little longer. I am certainly keen to put Georgia back on the list of safe countries and I feel very strongly supported by the CGVS this time. Foreign Affairs is still waiting, but I think they will give a positive opinion, as they did last year.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u76	Mr Secretary of State, you were actually a year early with your decision, if I understand correctly. Are the opinions of the CGVS classified documents?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u77	I'm not sure. I understand that you are asking them and my reflex is that I would not know why I should not give them, but the Commissioner-General insists that this is not done. I'll discuss that. I don't know how we do it best. In the past, that never happened. I asked that during the previous parliamentary term, but I did not go into that further and I did not. Mr Van den Bulck is rather formal in that he prefers not to pass on the opinions. After all, they contain a number of elements and certain information, and I have noticed that if something is delivered to the Chamber, which is on-line in the newspapers within five minutes. As far as deontology is concerned... On the suggestion that the documents should be submitted to the committee secretariat of the Chamber, your reaction is that this is not a democracy. You wonder why that is not allowed, you don't like it and you ask for everything to be mailed through. But if one emails it to everyone, then everything will be online in no time. This could, of course, give certain Georgians and their lawyers, as well as other lawyers, ideas on how to fight a solid asylum story. That is not the intention, but of course it is. I understand your question as a Member of Parliament. You spoke of a total lack of parliamentary reflex on Mr Francken and Mr Jambon. I personally blame you for that, because you know that this is not right. That's not true. I'm sorry you feel that way. I do have a parliamentary reflex. For starters, I'm always there on the spot, just to say one thing. I can give you many other examples. Anyway, I'd like to get out of that together. I don't have a problem with that. If Mr Van Den Bulck really insists that this is not a good idea, then I don't want this to end up anywhere, at law firms, at human smugglers, and I don't know who sells asylum stories for a lot of money. After all, that's the way it is. Applications were also made for Morocco and Tunisia. It's not just about Georgia. I assume you'll be asking them all, not just for Georgia. Then we must try to do this properly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u78	Mr Secretary of State, we can discuss this in one way or another. At the moment, the demand is directed towards Georgia. We are trying to do our job as a supervisory parliamentary body. As long as it's not about personal data and such... and still, the option still exists to consult the committee secretariat. That's not ideal. As a general point, I would like to say that I believe that we in the Chamber should work out a better arrangement for this. One time it is, the other time it's different. However, I am sticking to my point. I think that Members should be able to look at this kind of advice.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u79	It is, of course, the case that Parliament has a right to control and to have access to documents. It is also up to the author to determine the extent to which sensitive information is involved and how it can be shared, not only with Members of Parliament but above all with the outside world. That's why there's the eye-only procedure. You say there are different ways. I have often used the Eyes-only principle in this committee. To date, no one has spoken to me about other ways being worse or better.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u80	Mr President, my proposal is that we contact you in the next few hours and days to see how we can deal with this. I have expressed my reservations. I will contact Mr Van Den Bulck about this. For the record, it's a document made by his services, in complete independence. I have to say to what extent I have something to say... I have, of course, received it. That's one. Secondly, we must be honest, they are, of course, critical and sometimes very critical reports on certain governments and governments in which Belgium tries to maintain good relations in the interests of our country and of our nationals with often large communities in our territory. One can look at the Maghreb, for example. Perhaps these reports do not immediately have news value in Belgium, but they have enormous news value on the other side of the Mediterranean and this in a very negative way. We're gonna get in touch and see how we can fix it. However, I am always on the side of Parliament and am in favour of a proper right of access. I think that a Member should be able to look at almost everything when it comes to government decisions. Basically, I am on that side, but it is from the CGVS and so I need to discuss it further.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u81	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I look forward to that. However, I do not think that the argument of sensitive information about third countries is valid. After all, the Foreign Affairs Office produces country notes in which criticism is sometimes also made and so on. We also maintain diplomatic relations with these countries. Such country notes shall be forwarded to Parliament. It doesn't just happen in eye-only commission rooms or anything, it's emailed through. I hope we can get out together.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u82	Mr Secretary of State, my question was initially submitted in writing, because it is very much about figures, on 19 December 2016. Following that question, I was contacted by a journalist from De Tijd two or three weeks ago. He asked if I had already received an answer to my question. I should have told him I hadn't gotten an answer. To my great wonder, I read the answers to my question in the newspaper the next day. So the question has been answered to journalists, but not to me. For the sake of clarity, I would like to be very open about this. I have written a letter to the President of the Chamber, Mr Bracke, because someone has told me that Mr Peumans, the President of the Flemish Parliament, is very strict in ensuring that this is done correctly. I can still understand why it is not possible to respond to a Member in good time if a lot of figures are asked, but it is very difficult for me to say that it will only take a few hours to answer the same questions to a journalist. The question is about imams employed in a recognized mosque. I have the following questions about this. First of all, how many visa applications for foreign imams were there in 2012 to 2016? I would like a distinction to be made between the nationality of the applicant. Secondly, how many applications resulted in the issue of a visa? Here too, I would like to distinguish between the year of application and the nationality of the applicant. Thirdly, how many applications resulted in a refusal decision? Here too, I would like to distinguish between the year of application and the nationality of the applicant. Can you also specify the percentages for refusals? Fourthly, how many refusal decisions were brought before the Council of Foreign Ministers? Here too, I would like to distinguish between the year of application and the nationality of the applicant. Fifthly, on how many cases did the Council decide on foreign nationals' disputes to destroy the refusal decision? Here too, I would like to distinguish between the year of application and the nationality of the applicant. Please also clarify whether there would be more than one refusal decision for one file. Sixthly, how often does the Foreign Office decide to issue a visa after destruction by the RVV? We would also like to distinguish between nationality and year of application.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u83	Mrs De Coninck, I understand your comment. I was not aware that such a question was being asked, but I will have my case structured differently so that this does not happen anymore because it is indeed not correct. I didn't consciously do that, but I can understand why this didn't seem right. In that sense, I will certainly try to avoid it. We're trying to catch up with the written questions. There's been quite a lot coming in in a few weeks and we're trying to catch up. For the next two years, I intend not to lag behind any further. There are good reasons for this delay, but well, we are always trying to respond in time. I have here an overview with a few tables. I am not going to list it all because I fear you will not be able to follow it. I'll read the text. By official means, foreign imams can legally come to our country to preach, on the one hand via short stay, which is mainly used in the Ramadan context, and on the other hand via a visa long stay in which an imam wishes to work in a mosque for a longer period. In both cases, applications are submitted to the State Security, ADIV and OCAD so that a security screening can be carried out. However, I would like to emphasise that none of the visas refused in 2016 23 were refused for the sake of extremism or public security. For long stays, since 2016 I no longer deliver visas to foreign imams who want to preach in Belgium in unrecognized mosques. You know that. For this reason, in 2016 I refused 12 imams the entry and stay here with us. They were all Turkish imams. A couple of those Turkish imams appealed to the RVV to challenge that refusal, but they didn't. The RVV confirmed that my refusal for unrecognized mosques was legally taken and that the principle of equality and freedom of religious experience were not violated. This means that our stricter treatment for unrecognized mosques remains legal and, on the other hand, that the imams are abroad outside the jurisdiction of the Belgian State. I would like to stress that no such refusals have taken place before. Outside Turkey, the DVZ receives barely any requests for long-stay visas. No applications were received for 2017. We're already May anyway. Two of the imams, one French-speaking and one Dutch-speaking, have gone into cassation with the Council of State against the confirmation of the RVV. So they're gonna keep suing. So they clearly want to play at the highest level in principle. This can also get to Europe. For short-stay visas, last year I prepared an instruction sent by the Foreign Office to their posts. This instruction implies first and foremost that applications for visa C under the Ramadan are submitted to the DVZ. What is important about this new instruction is that the outpost will proactively request the data of the persons expected in Belgium under the Ramadan from the competent interlocutors. This data will then be sent to the DVZ for the effective visa application so that they can be submitted to our intelligence and security services. In doing so, the DVZ gains valuable time in the later examination of the applications. Of the 77 applications in 2016, a total of 11 applications were refused. These applications came mainly from Morocco. These refusals were not based on extremism or public security, but because I introduced stricter controls on the completeness of the files and whether they met all the conditions. Such refusals were hardly made before. I am currently considering whether it is also possible to refuse visa applications for short stays, if this would be for non-approved mosques. However, the division between recognised and unrecognised mosques is more difficult as short-term visas are bound by European rules and long-stay visas are a competence of the Member States. In addition, there are important diplomatic implications and it is not possible to exclude attempts to obtain a visa through other Member States. I cannot answer questions 4, 5 and 6 for technical reasons. So we are currently working on short-stay visas, but that is a very delicate exercise.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u84	I suggest that you give the figures to the committee secretariat so that the information can be distributed to everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u85	And then everyone will publish it and walk it to the press. I will have waited so long for that question. I'm being punished from all sides.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u86	No, I'll let you have the numbers right away. But if they only go to you, they will not be included in any report, not from the written questions, but also from the oral questions. This is how we make sure that the information can be shared. We'll make sure you get your hands on the information as soon as possible and first. That way, everyone will get the information.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u87	Mr Secretary of State, on 21 April the Council of Ministers adopted a preliminary draft law allowing the CGVS to consider, on the one hand, the public social media profile of an asylum seeker and, on the other hand, to ask an asylum seeker to grant access to his computer or smartphone. According to your statements in the press, a candidate refugee may refuse access, but that will have an impact on his file. Could you give me a little more explanation on that? What information will the CGVS be allowed to screen? Is access to the computer and smartphone unlimited? Who's eligible? How will you guarantee that the information found will also be used only in the context of the asylum application? What do you mean by your statement that it might have an impact on the file? The right to privacy is enshrined in Article 12 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. How can you prove that refusing access may have a negative impact on the evaluation of the file?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u88	Mr De Vriendt, an asylum seeker is supposed to present all the necessary elements to support his identity and his asylum story from the moment he applies for international protection to the DVZ. In addition, the preliminary draft law adopted by the Council of Ministers on 21 April explicitly lays down the obligation to cooperate with the applicant during the asylum procedure for the CGVS and the RVV. The applicant shall cooperate in bringing in all necessary elements, in particular those supporting his identity or nationality, so that the CVGS is able to properly assess his or her application for asylum. The obligation to cooperate therefore requires the applicant for international protection to provide as detailed and correct information as possible on all aspects of his identity, lifestyle, travel route and elements relating to the facts underlying his or her departure or the fear or risk of returning. The asylum seeker may therefore be expected to make correct statements and, where possible, documents and documents concerning his identity, nationality, age, background, including those concerning family members, places of previous residence and the route he travelled. That is quite clearly stated in the submission of any application for international protection. This is also mentioned in the preliminary draft law. The above is a transposition of Articles 13.1 and 13.2 B of the Asylum Procedure Directive 2013/32/EU and Articles 4.1 and 4.2 of the Qualification Directive 2011/95/EU. Both directives must be read in conjunction and in addition to each other. The granting of access to computer or smartphone involves a variation in this obligation of cooperation and is based not only on the above mentioned articles of the Asylum Procedure Directive and the Qualification Directive, but also partly on Article 13.2D of the Asylum Procedure Directive. The CGVS may invite the asylum seeker to submit the elements mentioned above, which is also their carrier. It may therefore be a material or an intangible medium, including any piece, any object, any communication device: mobile, tablet, portable computer, PC, any access to a social network site or Internet: Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, any exchange of correspondence including any electronic information carrier: usb key, CD-ROM, memory card, suitable for the purpose of including the elements referred to above and for which the CGVS may request access with the authorisation of applicants for asylum to take note of the content to be able to assess the asylum application. Those authorities and their staff are bound by absolute respect for privacy and professional secrecy. For the CGVS, this is even explicitly included in the law in Article 57/27 of the Foreigner's Act. This applies to all the elements they establish when registering and examining the application for asylum. This applies a fortiori when investigating a smartphone or other internet or IT material. The access, collection and handling of personal information is done with the consent of the asylum seeker, as I have also communicated. Of course, the use of public or publicly accessible data from social networking sites such as Facebook does not require the consent of the asylum seeker. After all, it can protect the information it does not want to share with everyone from the public or from the private part of its Facebook page. Only if the CGMS finds that the applicant can reasonably be expected to submit certain documents and invite him to submit them, should he be able to provide a satisfactory explanation for the absence of those documents. If it is established that the applicant does not comply with his or her obligation to cooperate, a refusal on this basis cannot be decided, but these findings are an important element in the assessment of the application for international protection alongside other positive and negative elements. This isn't new. The lack of cooperation is already an element in the assessment of an asylum application by the CGVS. As for other aspects, the lack of cooperation in the examination of a smartphone or other IT material will be an element alongside other elements in the assessment of the asylum application. I've never said anything else in my communication. I have always said very clearly that it is an element which naturally plays a negative role if one refuses to give access. After all, it is suspicious that we do not wish to do so. They say it's already possible. I read that with Mrs Lanjri. Yeah, I could, but it wasn't legally in the law. Some of the judges of the RVV didn't make it easy. There has then been a general meeting of the RVV in which it was explained that it could, but it remains better if that is clearly stated in the law. That is what we will do now. I will submit that bill to the Chamber before 21 July.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u89	Mr Secretary of State, asking an asylum seeker to make all the elements available to the Commissioner-General is normal. However, I find it rather difficult to have unlimited access to, for example, a computer or a smartphone from an asylum seeker. I can agree to have access to all the elements relevant to the file, but there are many other things on a computer or smartphone. That the government can have unlimited access to such carriers, without distinction, seems to me to be a bit far-reaching. I will read your answer to that very carefully.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u90	Mr President, Minister, in a reply you gave to a colleague on 16 December 2015, you stated that "workers employed under Article 60 of the Act of 8 July 1976 are indeed regarded by my administration today as workers within the meaning of Directive 2004/38 and are therefore allowed to stay on the basis of this type of contract as employees". Unfortunately, it is apparent from the organizational experience on the ground that this line, which is also stated in the context of your 2014 policy note, is not always followed by effects. Many municipalities and CPAS do not seem to be properly informed of how Article 60 contracts should be considered in the context of issuing residence permits to European nationals. I would like to ensure that each of the services and persons concerned are fully informed of the rules to be followed. Mr Secretary of State, are you also aware of cases of European nationals whose residence permits have been refused on the basis of non-recognition of contracts Article 60 as employment contracts within the meaning of Directive 2004/38? Is it not appropriate to inform the municipalities, in particular the population services and, where appropriate, the foreigners, of the fact that these contracts Article 60 must be regarded as employment contracts and not as social aid, which in fact corresponds to the very spirit of these contracts? Shouldn't a similar approach be taken with regard to the CPAS of our country, which are primarily involved in these contracts? Lastly, would it not be appropriate to have a reference, black on white, clarifying the status of these contracts, as "work contracts", on the document itself, in such a way that they offer an opening in respect of residence rights?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u91	Mrs Grovonius, if there is a refusal of a residence permit, it is not based on the fact that it is an article 60 which asks for it, but on other grounds, such as, for example, because it is marginal work, less than 12 hours a week. Secondly, the municipalities are informed, but we can send them a reminder. Secondly, the contracts under Article 60 are not drawn up with the aim of providing the person concerned with a stay. They shall be drawn up on the basis of criteria specific to the CPAS Regulation. I therefore do not see the usefulness of such an approach. When a citizen of the European Union obtains it, he/she applies to the municipal administration, but he/she can already do so as a jobseeker. On the other hand, I do not see how a contract under Article 60 would be different from another contract of employment, since it concerns a worker. The person concerned must prove that he or she is one, like any other citizen of the European Union, or that he or she always fulfils the legal conditions when the administration asks him or her about the matter in the course of a review of his or her case. A residence permit may be withdrawn for five years. The fact that this is a contract article 60 does not change anything. The employment contract constitutes an agreement between an employer and an employee, not a contract defining the right or, possibly, the maintenance of the right of residence.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u92	Mr Secretary of State, as you have already indicated in your previous reply and as I myself have stated, this is a full employment contract. I am not directly concerned, but it has come to my mind that the difficulty is that some CPAS and some municipalities do not see it as such. That is why the information really needs to be disseminated to the local authorities. My question was how best to convey it correctly in order to avoid refusals. I repeat that the contract article 60 is a full-fledged contract of employment. I heard you were opening a door on this need to inform. In concrete terms, how can we do this? Is it you or another minister who will take care of it? In any case, I would like this project to be carried out successfully.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic651x.u93	We agree on the principle. I will talk about this Monday morning at a meeting with my Director General. I fully understand your concern and it is probably necessary to remind CPAS and municipalities about the interpretation of the law when it comes to the right of residence for section 60.
